FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20071214152110.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
 
(972) 431-1000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.02
  
   
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(e)
  
 
Amendment of Certain Benefit and Compensation Plans.
On December 11, 2007, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee (HRCC) of the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (Company) Board of Directors (Board) approved, and, in certain cases, also recommended approval to the Board and on December 12, 2007, the Board approved, as appropriate, amendments to the following plans: J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Mirror Savings Plan, Supplemental Retirement Program for Management Profit-Sharing Associates of J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc.,
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan,
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors, J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Benefit Restoration Plan,
J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Management Incentive Compensation Program and J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Change in Control Plan. The amendments were adopted primarily to address compliance with section 409A of the U. S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations and other guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service in connection therewith. Certain other conforming definitional changes were made to several of the plans in order to assure consistency in administration. The amendments become effective on December 31, 2007. A copy of each plan, as amended, is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1, 10.2, 10.3, 10.4, 10.5, 10.6 and 10.7, respectively, and such exhibits are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01
 
 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
   
  
  
   
 
   
   
 
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
 
 
 
Date: December 14, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
The J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Mirror Savings Plans I and II were adopted effective January 1, 1999 as part of a program to redesign the Company's qualified and non-qualified savings plans to optimize the retirement savings opportunities for Associates.
Effective December 31, 2006, the J.C. Penney Corporation Inc. Mirror Savings Plan I and III were closed to new deferrals and new participants. Effective on January 1, 2007, the J.C. Penney Corporation, Inc. amended and restated Mirror Savings Plan II and renames the plan the J.C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Mirror Savings Plan. As of the December 31, 2007, Mirror Savings Plans I and III are merged into the Mirror Savings Plan and the Mirror Savings Plan is the surviving plan.
The Plans are maintained by the Company on an unfunded basis primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation to a select group of management or highly compensated employees.
The provisions of the Plan as amended and restated herein will apply to the entire benefit of each Participant who is an Associate on or after the above effective date and each Participant who had a Separation from Service prior to the above effective date and had not commenced receiving benefit payments under the Plan as of the effective date. For all other Participants who have commenced receiving benefits under the Plan as of the above effective date, the provisions of the Plan as in effect at the time each such Participant commenced receiving benefits will continue to be applicable. Set forth in Appendix B for reference only is a copy of the Plan as in effect on October 3, 2004, and amendments to that Plan adopted after that date. Unless otherwise indicated, no provision of the Plan as amended and restated shall amend any provision of the Plan in Appendix B.
Words and phrases with initial capital letters used throughout the Plan are defined in Article One.
 
 
As used herein, the following words and phrases have the following respective meanings unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
 
Active Participant
: A Participant who defers part of his or her Compensation for a Plan Year (or part thereof) pursuant to an election to defer.
Associate
: Any person who is classified as an associate and employed by an Employer if the relationship between the Employer and such person constitutes the legal relationship of employer and employee.
Beneficiary
: The person or persons designated by the Participant on a beneficiary form required by the Company for this purpose to receive benefits payable under the Plan because of the Participant's death.
Code
: The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Company
: On and after January 27, 2002, J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc., a Delaware corporation. The term Company will also include any successor employer, if the successor employer expressly agrees in writing as of the effective date of succession to continue the Plan.
Company Account
: A phantom account established in accordance with Article Three to which Mirror Company Matching, Mirror Retirement Account and Mirror Discretionary contributions plus earnings are credited.
Compensation
: The same meaning as the term Compensation is defined in the Savings Plan.
For all purposes under the Plan, a Participants Compensation shall exclude any awards (cash or otherwise) under the J.C. Penney Company, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan.
For purposes of applying a Participants election to defer, a Participants Compensation for a Plan Year shall: (i) include any cash incentive payments under the Management Incentive Compensation Program related to services performed during such year by the Associate (and exclude any such payments in the current Plan Year related to a prior Plan Years services), and (ii) include amounts deferred by the Active Participant pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Plan.
 
Compensation for a Plan Year shall be determined without regard to the limitations on annual compensation under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code and without regard to deferrals to this Plan.
An Associate who is in the service of the armed forces of the United States during any period in which his or her reemployment rights are guaranteed by law will be considered to have received the same rate of Compensation during his or her absence that he or she was receiving immediately prior to his or her absence, provided he or she returns to employment with an Employer within the time such rights are guaranteed by law.
 
Controlled Group
: The Company and all other corporations, trades, and businesses, the employees of which, together with employees of the Company, are required by the first sentence of subsection (b), by subsection (c), by subsection (m), or by subsection (o) of Code section 414 to be treated as if they were employed by a single employer. For purposes of determining if a Separation from Service has occurred, the Controlled Group will be determined under Code sections 414(b) and 414(c) and Treasury Regulation section 1.414(c) - 2 by using the language at least 50 percent instead of at least 80 percent each place it appears in Code section 1563(a)(1),(2), and (3).
Eligible Associate
: An Associate who has satisfied the eligibility requirements of the Plan for a Plan Year in accordance with Section 2.02.
Employer
: The Company and any subsidiary company or affiliate of the Company that is a Participating Employer as defined in Article I of the Savings Plan.
ERISA
: The Employee Retirement Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
Exchange Act
: The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
Human Resources and Compensation Committee
: The Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Parent Company.
Human Resources Committee
: The Human Resources Committee of the Company.
Mirror Company Matching Contributions
: The phantom amounts deemed to be contributed by the Company for each Plan Year as determined under Section 3.04.
Mirror Discretionary Contributions
: The phantom amounts deemed to be contributed by the Company for each Plan Year as determined under Section 3.06.
Mirror Investment Funds
: Phantom funds established as book reserve entries in the books and records of the Company to which a Participant's deferral amounts under the Plan are credited based on the investment elections of the
 
Participant. The investment returns of such funds shall be assumed to match the returns of the same investment funds available to participants under the Savings Plan. No phantom fund shall be established in this Plan for any self directed brokerage account in the Savings Plan.
Mirror Retirement Account Contributions:
The phantom amounts deemed to be contributed by the Company for each Plan Year as determined under Section 3.05.
Parent Company
: J. C. Penney Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor corporation.
Participant
: An Eligible Associate who participates in the Plan in accordance with Article Two, and who has not yet received a distribution of the entire amount of his or her vested benefits under the Plan.
Payment
 
Commencement
 
Date
: The date upon which payment of a Particpants benefits is scheduled to begin as determined under Section 7.03.
Payment Event
:
 
The event set forth in Section 7.02 upon which a Participants
 
benefits may be paid.
Personal Account
: A phantom account established in accordance with Article Three to which a Participant's deferral amounts plus earnings are credited.
Plan
: The J.C. Penney Corporation Inc. Mirror Savings Plan, as amended from time to time.
Plan Administrator
:
 
The Benefits Administration Committee.
Plan Year
: Each calendar year.
Savings Plan
: Prior to January 27, 2002, the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan, as amended from time to time, and on and after January 27, 2002, the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan, as amended from time to time.
Separation from Service
:
The date an Associate dies, retires, or otherwise has a termination of employment from the Controlled Group within the meaning of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(h), or its successor, taking into account the definition of Controlled Group for such purpose as defined above.
 
An Eligible Associate or Participant who transfers from one Employer to another Employer or to another member of the Controlled Group as defined in the preceding sentence without a break in employment shall not be deemed to have a Separation from Service.
Specified Employee
:
A specified employee within the meaning of Code section 409A, as determined in accordance with the rules specified by the Board of Directors in resolutions dated December 12, 2007.
Valuation Date
: With respect to all Mirror Investment Funds, each day of a calendar year on which the New York Stock Exchange is open.
With respect to transactions or distributions initiated by a Participant or Beneficiary, (a) the date of receipt by the Plan Administrator of the request if it is received prior to the close of the New York Stock Exchange, or (b) the next trading day if the request is received after the close of the New York Stock Exchange.
With respect to distributions not initiated by a Participant, the date the distribution is processed.
2.01
 
Eligibility Determined for Each Plan Year
The eligibility of each Associate to participate in the Plan as an Active Participant is determined for each Plan Year in accordance with Section 2.02 below. Eligibility for, or participation in, the Plan for a Plan Year does not give an Associate the right to defer part of his or her Compensation under the Plan for any other Plan Year.
2.02
 
Eligible Associate
An Associate shall be eligible to participate in the Plan as an Active Participant for a Plan Year if the Associate for the preceding Plan Year had:
(a)
 
Satisfied the eligibility requirements to make deferrals to the Savings Plan; and
(b) Earnings in excess of $100,000 (as adjusted in accordance with Section 414(q)(1) of the Code) comprised as follows:
Base Salary shall mean the aggregate amount of the base pay rate (before any deductions of contributions or deferrals), commissions and amounts under the J.C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Management Incentive Compensation Program due and payable to an Eligible Associate in the applicable Plan Year designated by his or her Employer as the Eligible Associate's monthly pay as reflected on the Employer's personnel records including any such amounts otherwise due and payable with respect to which his or her election to defer applies.
 
2.03
 
Participation
An Eligible Associate for a Plan Year shall participate in the Plan for that Plan Year as an Active Participant by making a timely election to defer in accordance with Section 2.04 below. An Eligible Associate who fails to satisfy the requirements of Section 2.04 below shall not be allowed to make an election to defer and shall not be an Active Participant for the applicable Plan Year.
A Participant who is not an Active Participant for a Plan Year shall continue to participate in the Plan in all respects except that such Participant shall not have the right to defer part of his or her Compensation under the Plan for that Plan Year, and
 
shall not be entitled to a Mirror Company Matching Contribution or a Mirror Discretionary Contribution (as determined under Sections 3.04 or 3.06, respectively) for that Plan Year. A Participant hired on or after January 1, 2007, shall be entitled to receive a Mirror Retirement Account Contribution (as determined under 3.05) regardless of whether he or she is an Active Participant.
2.04
 
 
Election to Defer
(a)
 
All elections to defer for a Plan Year must be made in accordance with Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-2(a), and its successor, and in a manner approved by the Plan Administrator. An Eligible Associate for a Plan Year may elect to defer a percentage (as described in Section 2.05 below) of his or her Compensation for such Plan Year by filing an election no later than the December 31 preceding the Plan Year during which the services giving rise to the Compensation are performed. With respect to cash incentive amounts, such deferral election must be submitted no later than the December 31 preceding the Plan Year during which the services giving rise to the cash incentive amounts are performed, even though such cash incentive amounts may be payable in a Plan Year subsequent to performance of the relevant services.
(b)
 
To the extent permitted by Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-2(a)(7), and its successor, a newly Eligible Associate who has never participated in the Plan or in an agreement, method, program, or other arrangement that would be aggregated with this Plan under Code section 409A or Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(c)(2), or its successor may file his or her election with the Plan Administrator within 30 days of his or her first date of eligibility for participation in the Mirror Plan but such election shall apply only to Compensation paid for services performed after the election and the amount of Compensation deferred shall be pro-rated, to the extent required, pursuant to Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-2(a)(7) or its successor. If the election to defer is not made within 30 days or if the Eligible Associate is not otherwise newly eligible within the meaning of the preceding sentence, the Eligible Associate will not be allowed to make an election for the current Plan Year. An Eligible Associate who was previously eligible to participate in the Plan may be treated as a newly Eligible Associate if:
(1)
 
the Eligible Associate became ineligible to elect to defer, prior to a complete distribution of the Eligible Associates Account and following the distribution of all remaining amounts from his or her account, the Eligible Associate has subsequently become eligible to elect to participate again; or
(2)
 
the Eligible Associate, has not been eligible to defer at any time during the 24-month period ending on the date the Eligible Associate becomes eligible again, regardless of whether the Eligible Associate has a current Account balance or if the Eligible Associates Account was credited with earnings or losses during such 24-month period.
Clauses (1) and (2) shall be applied by taking into account by treating an agreement, method, program, or other arrangement that would be aggregated with this Plan under Code section 409A or Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(c)(2) as if it were part of this Plan for purposes of determining the Participants eligibility to defer or receipt of all remaining amounts.
(c)
 
An Active Participant cannot change or terminate his or her election to defer during a Plan Year for that Plan Year. However, an Eligible Associate may change his or her election to defer for a subsequent Plan Year by filing a new election with the Plan Administrator by December 31 of the preceding Plan Year.
An election to defer also shall terminate:
(3)
in the event of a Participants request for a distribution due to an unforeseeable emergency which is determined to exist under Section 7.07 or in the event the Participant receives a hardship distribution as described in Treasury Regulation section 1.401(k)-1(d)(3).
2.05
 
 
Deferral Amounts
An Active Participant for a Plan Year may defer
(a) up to 14% of his Compensation in that Plan Year up to the earnings dollar limit, and,
(b) up to 75% of his Compensation in that Plan Year that exceeds the earnings dollar limit.
All deferral amounts shall be in whole percentages and made by payroll deduction. The earnings dollar limit of an Active Participant for a Plan Year shall be
 
 
$225,000, as adjusted for cost of living increases in accordance with Section 401(a)(17) of the Code.
 
2.06
 
Investment Elections
A Participant shall complete an election, in the manner determined by the Plan Administrator, requesting that all of his or her future deferral amounts (in whole percentages) be applied to the hypothetical purchase for him or her, as of the earliest practicable Valuation Date after such amounts are deferred, of units in his or her Personal Accounts
 
within any one or more of the available Mirror Investment Funds in each case at a price equal to the value of such units as of such Valuation Date.
Such election initially must be made prior to the commencement of his or her participation in the Plan and may be changed at any time during the Plan Year in accordance with the procedures established by the Plan Administrator. Each such election shall be effective as soon as administratively feasible following receipt by the Plan Administrator or its delegate of the Participant's election.
In the event that no timely election by the Participant is on file with the Plan Administrator, such Participant shall be deemed to have elected that all deferral amounts shall be applied to the hypothetical purchase for him or her of units in the Personal Account within the Mirror Investment Fund that is the Interest Income Fund under the Savings Plan. Effective March 1, 2008, in the event that no timely election by the Participant is on file with the Plan Administrator, such Participant shall be deemed to have elected that all deferral amounts shall be applied to the purchase for him or her of units in the Personal Account within the Mirror Investment Fund that is the appropriate Target Retirement Investment Fund under the Savings Plan.
 
3.01
 
Establishment of Accounts
A Personal Account and a Company Account within each Mirror Investment Fund
 
shall be established for each Participant in the Plan as if assets were invested in a trust. All amounts credited to the Personal Accounts and Company Accounts of a Participant shall at all times be held in the Company's general funds as part of the Company's general assets, unless a trust is established pursuant to Section 7.10(b).
The value, including gains and losses, credited to such accounts and funds shall be determined by the Plan Administrator pursuant to procedures established by the Plan Administrator based on the same manner that the value is determined under the Savings Plan. As of each Valuation Date, the net asset value of a unit shall equal the net asset value of a unit as determined under the Savings Plan.
3.02
 
Personal Accounts
All amounts deferred by an Active Participant pursuant to Article Two shall be credited to his or her Personal Accounts within his or her Mirror Investment Funds specified in his or her investment election under Section 2.06.
3.03
 
Company Accounts
All Company contributions shall be credited to the Company Account of each Active Participant at each pay period. All Mirror Retirement Account Contributions and Mirror Discretionary Contributions shall be credited to each Active Participants Company Account within 2  months after the Companys fiscal year end.
A Mirror Company Matching Contribution, a Mirror Retirement Account Contribution and a Mirror Discretionary Contribution (as determined under Sections 3.04, 3.05 and 3.06 below, respectively) shall be deemed to be invested in his or her Company Account within the Mirror Investment Funds in accordance with the Active Participants Investment election for his or her Personal Accounts under Section 2.06 of this Plan. In the event an Active Participant does not make an investment election, the Active Participant will be deemed to have elected the Mirror Investment Fund in accordance with Section 2.06.
Any amount of Company matching contributions credited to the Participant's Company account under the Savings Plan and subsequently cancelled so that said plan could satisfy the actual contribution percentage test (as described in the Savings Plan) shall be credited to his or her Company Account within the Mirror Investment Fund that is according to the Participants investment election in the year paid to the extent permissible under Section 409A of the Code.
All amounts credited to the Company Accounts of a Participant shall be subject to the vesting provisions of Article Five.
For each Active Participant who has completed one year of employment and 1,000 hours of service, t
he Company will credit to the Mirror Company Matching Contribution account a matching contribution for each Active Participant in an amount equal to (i) 50% (or such other percent as may be determined from time to time by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee) of the Active Participant's deferral contribution to the Plan for each payroll period that does not exceed 6% of the Active Participant's Compensation for the payroll period reduced by (ii) the maximum matching contribution the Active Participant could have received under the Savings Plan. Each Active Participant's matching contribution will be calculated in the same manner as in the examples attached to the Plan as Exhibit A. 
An Active Participant who had a Separation from Service shall vest in the Mirror Company Matching Account contribution if he or she terminated:
(a)
 
At or after age 65
(c)
Due to death, or
(d)
Due to job restructuring, reduction in force or unit closing determined by the Company entitling the Participant to serverance pay under the Companys then existing Separation Pay Plan.
3.05
 
Mirror Retirement Account Contributions
For each Participant hired or rehired on or after January 1, 2007, who has completed one year of employment and 1,000 hours of service and with Compensation in excess of the earnings dollar limit, the Company shall contribute an amount to the Mirror Plan equal to the difference between the Active Participants Compensation and the earnings dollar limit multiplied by 2%.
An Active Participant must be in the active employ of an Employer on December 31 of the Plan Year to receive credit for a Mirror Retirement Account Contribution for that Plan Year; provided, however, that an Active Participant who had a Separation from Service before December 31 of said year shall receive credit for one-twelfth of the
 
 
Mirror Retirement Account contribution for each month or part of a month employed during the Plan Year if he or she terminated:
An Associate shall not have a right or claim to any of the amounts contributed as a Mirror Retirement Account Contribution if the Associate is summarily dismissed, or otherwise has an involuntary Separation from Service due to a summary dismissal as defined by the Companys policies and procedures (including resignation in lieu thereof), unless the Benefits Administration Committee, in its sole discrection, determines that such Associate shall be eligible for such benefits notwithstanding such summary dismissal.
3.06
 
Mirror Discretionary Contribution
Pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Savings Plan, a Discretionary Contribution shall be credited for each Active Participant to the Company Account in the Mirror Plan in accordance with the calculated deferral percentage of the Active Participant and in a manner deemed appropriate by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee.
An Active Participant must be in the active employ of an Employer on December 31 of the Plan Year to receive credit for a Mirror Discretionary Contribution for that Plan Year; provided, however, that an Active Participant who had a Separation from Service before December 31 of said year shall receive credit for one-twelfth of the
Mirror Discretionary Contribution for each month employed during the Plan Year if he or she terminated:
 
 
 
An Associate shall not have a right or claim to any of the amounts contributed as a Mirror Discretionary Contribution if the Associate is summarily dismissed, or otherwise has an involuntary Separation from Service due to a summary dismissal as defined by the Companys policies and procedures (including resignation in lieu thereof), unless the Benefits Administration Committee, in its sole discrection, determines that such Associate shall be eligible for such benefits notwithstanding such summary dismissal..
4.01
 
 
Personal Accounts
A Participant may elect, once in each calendar day of the Plan Year, to transfer an amount (in whole percentages) equal to the value of all or part of his or her units in his or her Personal Accounts within any one or more of the Mirror Investment Funds to another one or more of his or her Personal Accounts within the Mirror Investment Funds. The value of such units shall be determined as of the Valuation Date. A transfer is effective only if made in the manner determined by the Plan Administrator.
4.02
 
 
Company Accounts
A Participant may elect, once in each calendar day of the Plan Year, to transfer an amount (in whole percentages) equal to the value of all or part of his or her units in his or her Company Accounts within any one or more of the Mirror Investment Funds to another one or more of his or her Company Accounts within the Mirror Investment Funds. The value of such units shall be determined as of the Valuation Date. A transfer is effective only if made in the manner determined by the Plan Administrator.
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, a Participant who wishes to make transfers from both his or her Personal Accounts and Company Accounts during the same day, must do so as part of the same transaction.
5.01    
Personal Accounts
A Participant shall be 100% vested in the value of his or her Personal Accounts within his or her Mirror Investment Funds at all times without regard to whether he or she is a Participant in the Plan for any future Plan Year.
(a)
  
   
This Section 5.02 applies to Mirror Company Matching Contributions described in Section 3.04, Mirror Retirement Account Contributions described in 3.05; and Mirror Discretionary Contributions described in Section 3.06. A Participant shall be 100% vested in the value of his or her Company Accounts within his or her Mirror Investment Funds upon completion of three full years of service, and shall have no vested interest prior to that time, for amounts (including earnings attributable thereto) credited for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2007.
(b)
 
 For amounts (including earnings attributable thereto) credited as Mirror Company Matching Contributions for Plan Years before January 1, 2007, such amounts will vest in the same vesting percentage attributable to the value of his or her Company accounts under the Savings Plan based on his or her full years of service (as defined in the Savings Plan) in accordance with the following table:
   
 
Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, a Participant will only be entitled to payment of a benefit under the Plan if the Participants interest in his benefit is vested at the time payment is scheduled to commence.
(c)
 
 
   
Change in Control Plan.
If the Board of Directors of the Company exercises its discretion under Section 7.10 to terminate the Plan because of a Change in Control and a Participant is a participant in the J.C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Change in Control Plan (Change in Control Plan), the Participants non-vested amount in his Company Account will become 100% vested and nonforfeitable without regard to his or her years of service or age. If a Participant who is also a participant in the Change in Control Plan has an employment termination following a change in control as those terms are defined in the
 
 
Change in Control Plan, his or her interest in the Company Account will become 100% vested and nonforfeitable without regard to his or her years of service or age.
5.03
 
Forfeitures
A Participant who is less than 100% vested in the value of his or her Company Accounts as of his or her Separation from Service shall forfeit the non-vested value of his or her Company Accounts. In the event the Participant subsequently is re-employed by an Employer within five years, the amount forfeited (without earnings) hereunder shall be restored to his or her Company Accounts in the same manner as the amount, if any, forfeited by his or her Savings Plan Company Accounts would be restored by purchasing units in accordance with the Participants investment election in effect at the time of his or her Separation from Service using the current market value as of the date of employment.
6.01
 
Top Hat Plan
The Plan is intended to be a "pension plan" as defined in ERISA and is maintained by the Company on an unfunded basis primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation to a select group of management or highly compensated employees. As such, the Plan is intended to be construed so as not to provide income to any Participant or Beneficiary for purposes of the Code prior to actual receipt of benefit payments under the Plan.
In the event that it should subsequently be determined by statute or by regulation or ruling that the Plan is not "a plan which is unfunded and is maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees" within the meaning of sections 201(2), 301(a)(3), 401 (a)(1), and 4021(b)(6) of ERISA and section 2520.104-24 of Chapter 29 of the Code of Federal Regulations, participation in the Plan shall be restricted by the Plan Administrator to the extent necessary to assure that it will be such a plan within the meaning of such sections.
6.02
 
No Funding
Plan benefits shall be payable solely from the general assets of the Company. The Company shall not be required to, but may at its discretion, segregate or physically set aside any funds or assets attributable to Plan benefits, subject to the limitations of Code section 409A on funding such benefits. The Company shall retain title to and beneficial ownership of all assets of the Company, including any assets which may be used to pay Plan benefits. The cost of the Plan shall be expensed and a book reserve shall be maintained on the Company's financial statements.
No Participant or Beneficiary shall be deemed to have, pursuant to the Plan, any legal or equitable interest in any specific assets of the Company. To the extent that any Participant or Beneficiary acquires any right to receive Plan benefits, such right shall arise merely as a result of a contractual obligation and shall be no greater than, nor have any preference or priority over, the rights of any general unsecured creditor of the Company.
 
7.01 
Normal Form of Payment
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Plan, benefits will be paid in the form of five substantially equal annual installments.
7.02 
Payment Event
.
The Payment Event for a Participant will be the later of (i) Separation from Service or (ii) January 1, 2008; provided, however, that if a Specified Employees Separation from Service (other than by reason of death) occurs prior to January 1, 2008, and the date of such Separation from Service plus six months is after January 1, 2008, Separation from Service will be the deemed Payment Event for such a Specified Employee.
7.03 
Payment Commencement Date
.
The Payment Commencement Date for a Participant (including a Specified Employee) whose Payment Event under Section 7.02 is Separation from Service will be the first day of the month following the date of his Separation from Service; provided, however, that the actual time of the first payment to a Specified Employee will be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.04. For all other Participants, the Payment Commencement Date for benefits under will be January 1, 2008, or as soon as practicable thereafter, but no later than the time required for payment under Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(d), or its successor. Subsequent installments for all Participants, including Specified Employees, will be paid on the first through fourth anniversaries of the Payment Commencement Date.
For an alternate payee, the Payment Commencement Date will be the applicable commencement date as provided in a domestic relations order that conforms with the requirements of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ii), or its successor.
7.04 
Delay for Specified Employees
.
If a Participant is a Specified Employee as of the date of his Separation from Service and his Payment Event is Separation from Service (other than by reason of death), payment will not be made before the date that is six months after the date of Separation from Service. The first payment to such a Specified Employee will be paid on the first day of the seventh month following the date of Separation from Service.
During this period, interest will accrue in accordance with the Participants investment election.
7.05  
Death
If a Participant has a Separation from Service by reason of death, the Participant's Beneficiary will receive a benefit in the form of five equal annual installments commencing as of the first day of the month after the Participant's death. If a Participant has a Separation from Service (other than by death) and subsequently dies before payment of his vested benefit has begun under the Plan, the Participant's Beneficiary will receive the benefit in the form of five equal annual installments payble at the same time as described in Section 7.03. In the event of the death of a Participant after his benefit has commenced and before all installments have been paid, the remaining unpaid installments shall be paid to his Beneficiary in accordance with the payment schedule of the Participant.
 
If no Beneficiary has been designated by such a Participant, the Beneficiary will be deemed to be the Spouse for a married Participant and the estate for a single Participant.
If the Beneficiary dies before receiving all benefits to which he was entitled under the Plan, the amount shall be paid to the Beneficiarys estate in accordance with the installment schedule set forth above.
7.06
 
 
Subsequent Changes in Time and Form of Benefit
No Participant can make a subsequent election to delay a payment or change the form of a payment.
7.07
 
Distribution for an Unforeseeable Emergency
A Participant or Beneficiary entitled to vested benefits under the Plan may request a single-sum distribution to satisfy a severe financial hardship resulting from an unforeseen event or emergency beyond his control. The distribution shall be limited to the amount necessary to satisfy the severe financial hardship (including any applicable federal, state or local taxes attributable to such distribution), and shall not exceed the current value of vested benefits payable to or on behalf of the Participant or Beneficiary.
An unforeseeable event or emergency shall have the meaning as that term is defined within Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(3), or its successor.
The determination of the existence of a severe financial hardship and the approval of an unforeseeable emergency distribution shall be made by the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer, (or his successor by title or position) or his delegate except as provided below. Approval shall be given only if, taking into account all of the facts and circumstances, continued deferral of benefits or adherence to the Plan's payment schedule would result in a severe financial hardship to the Participant or Beneficiary. Approval shall not be granted if such hardship is or may be relieved through insurance, by liquidation of his or her assets (to the extent such liquidation would not itself cause severe financial hardship), or by terminating his or her election to defer. The amount of payment permitted hereunder shall in no event
 
 
exceed the amount permitted under Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(3)(ii), or its
successor.
With respect to a Participant who is subject to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the determination of the existence of a severe financial hardship and the approval of the hardship distribution shall be made by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee.
7.08
 
 
Fund-Specific Installments or Unforeseeable Emergency Distributions
The payment to a Participant or Beneficiary of installments or an unforeseeable emergency distribution shall reduce the value of his or her accounts in his or her Mirror Investment Fund(s) as designated by the Participant or Beneficiary. In the event the Participant or Beneficiary fails to designate the Mirror Investment Funds from which payment is to be made, the value of Mirror Investment Funds shall be reduced on a pro-rata basis.
7.09 
Form of Payments
.
Payment of all benefits from the Plan shall be made only by check. No payments of Company stock shall be permitted.
7.10 
Change in Control
(a)
 
Authority of the Board of Directors
. Upon a Change in Control as defined in Section 7.10(c), the Board of Directors of the Parent Company will have the discretion and the authority to (i) terminate and liquidate the Plan pursuant to its irrevocable action taken within the 30 days preceding or the 12 months following a Change in Control in accordance with Code section 409A, and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix)(B), or its successor in which event the benefit of each Participant who is also a participant in the Change in Control Plan will automatically vest as provided in Section 5.02(c); (ii) fund a grantor trust in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.10(b); or (iii) provide that each Participants benefit in the Plan will become 100% vested and nonforfeitable as of the date of the Change in Control without regard to his years of service under Section 5.02(a) or (b).
(b)
 
Grantor Trust
. To the extent permitted by Code section 409A and the regulations thereunder, the Board of Directors will have the discretion and the authority to transfer assets of the Parent Company, in an amount sufficient to pay benefits that have been earned or vested under the Plan up to the date of the Change in Control, to a grantor trust to be established by the Parent Company for the purpose of paying benefits hereunder; and the Participant's vested benefits shall thereafter be paid to the Participant from such trust in accordance with the terms of the Plan. On each anniversary date of the date of the Change in Control, the Parent Company shall, to the extent permitted by Code section 409A and the regulations thereunder, transfer to the
 
 
grantor trust an amount necessary to pay all amounts contributed or vested under the Plan
during the preceding twelve months.
(c)
 
Change in Control Event
. For the purpose of determining whether a Change in Control has occurred with respect to a Participant, a Change in Control means a Change in Control within the meaning of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(5), or its successor, including a change in the ownership of the corporation, a change in the effective control of the corporation, or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the corporation as such terms are defined in Treasury Regulation sections 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v), (vi) and (vii). For this purpose, corporation has the meaning given in Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(ii), or its successor.
7.11 
Reemployed Participants
If the Participant is reemployed, his or her scheduled payments under Section 7.01 shall continue. Any additional benefits payable to or on behalf of the Participant because of a subsequent Separation from Service shall be paid in the normal form of payment in accordance with this Article 7. A reemployed Participant will be allowed to make a new election to defer to the extent permitted under Section 2.04 above.
 
7.12 
Prohibition on Acceleration of Payment
.
Except as provided in Code section 409A, Treasury regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4) or its successor, this Section, Section 7.07, and Section 7.13, neither the Participant nor the Company can accelerate the time or schedule of any payment or amount scheduled to be paid pursuant to the terms of the Plan. The Benefits Administration Committee will have the discretion to accelerate payments in accordance with the provisions of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4), or its successor (provided that only the Board of Directors of the Company will have the discretion to accelerate payments in accordance with the provisions of Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix) or its successor).
7.13 
Limited Cashouts
.
If a Participant under this Plan has no benefits due under the Supplemental Retirement Program for Management Profit-Sharing Associates of the J.C. Penney Corporation, Inc. or the J.C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Benefit Restoration Plan, and if a Participants or Beneficiary's benefit under this Plan when combined with the Participants or Beneficiary's benefit under any other agreements, methods, programs, or other arrangements with respect to which deferrals of compensation are treated as having been deferred under a single nonqualified deferred compensation plan under Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(c)(2), or its successor, is equal to or less than the applicable dollar amount under Code section 402(g)(1)(B), in effect for the year of distribution, the Benefits Administration Committee will distribute the benefit in the form of an immediate lump sum payment, provided that the payment results in the
 
termination and liquidation of the entirety of the Participants interest under this Plan and all other agreements, methods,
programs, or other arrangements aggregated with this Plan and is in accordance with Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)
(4)(v), or its successor. In the case of a Specified Employee, the benefit will be paid at the time specified in Section 7.04 with an
adjustment
for interest in accordance with the Participants investment election. 
 
8.01 
Plan Amendment
The Human Resources and Compensation Committee may amend the Plan at any time and from time to time, without prior notice to any Participant or Beneficiary; provided, however, that the Human Resources Committee also may make amendments that relate primarily to the administration of the Plan, are applied in a uniform and consistent manner to all Participants, and are reported to the Human Resources and Compensation Committee.
8.02 
Plan Termination
The Board of Directors of the Parent Company may terminate or discontinue the Plan at any time. If the Plan is terminated, it shall be on such terms and conditions as the Board of Directors of the Parent Company shall deem appropriate.
The Board of Directors of the Parent Company may suspend, discontinue, or terminate the Plan at any time without prior notice or approval. Any termination and liquidation of the Plan, including any termination and liquidation of the Plan upon a Change in Control as provided under Section 7.10 of the Plan, must comply with the provisions of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix), or its successor.
9.01 
Plan Administration
The Plan shall be administered under the direction of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee. Except as otherwise provided below, the Benefits Administration Committee shall be considered the Plan Administrator for purposes of ERISA.
The Human Resources and Compensation Committee may delegate all or some of the responsibility for the administration of the Plan to the Human Resources Committee or the Benefits Administration Committee in which case such Committee shall assume such delegated power and authority in administering the Plan to that extent; provided, however, that in no event shall the Human Resources Committee or the Benefits Administration Committee have any power or authority with respect to matters involving a Participant who is a member of the Executive Board of the Company or a Participant who is subject to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.
The Plan Administrator has the authority and discretion to construe and interpret the Plan in a manner consistent with the requirements of Code Section 409A. As part of this authority, the Plan Administrator has the discretion to resolve inconsistencies or ambiguities in the language of the Plan, to supply omissions from or correct deficiencies in the language of the Plan, and to adopt rules for the administration of the Plan which are not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan. The Plan Administrator also has the authority and discretion to resolve all questions of fact relating to any claim for benefits as to any matter for which the Plan Administrator has responsibility. All determinations of the Plan Administrator are final and binding on all parties.
Each person considered to be a fiduciary with respect to the Plan shall have only those powers and responsibilities as are specifically given that person under this Plan. It is intended that each such person shall be responsible for the proper exercise of his or her own powers and responsibilities, and shall not be responsible for any act or failure to act of any other person considered to be a fiduciary or any act or failure to act of any person considered to be a non-fiduciary.
9.02 
Plan Expenses
All Plan administration expenses incurred by the Company or the Plan Administrator shall be paid by the Company.
9.03 
Effect on Other Benefits
Participation in the Plan shall not reduce any welfare benefits or retirement benefits offered by the Company, except that the amounts deferred under the Plan and
 
 
any Plan benefits shall not be considered "Compensation" for purposes of the Savings Plan.
9.04 
No Guarantee of Employment
Neither participation in the Plan nor any action taken under the Plan shall confer upon a Participant any right to continue in the employ of an Employer or affect the right of such Employer to terminate the Participant's employment at any time.
9.05 
Disclaimer of Liability
The Employer shall be solely responsible for the payment of Plan benefits hereunder. The members of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee, the Human Resources Committee, and the Benefits Administration Committee and the officers, directors, employees, or agents of the Company or any other Employer, shall not be liable for such benefits. Unless otherwise required by law, no such person shall be liable for any action or failure to act, except where such act or omission constitutes gross negligence or willful or intentional misconduct.
9.06
 
Severability
If any provision of the Plan shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall apply only to that provision, and shall not affect or render invalid or unenforceable any other provision of the Plan. In such event, the Plan shall be administered and construed as if such invalid or unenforceable provision were not contained herein. If the application of any Plan provision to any Participant or Beneficiary shall be held invalid or unenforceable, the application of such provision to any other Participant or Beneficiary shall not in any manner be affected thereby.
9.07
 
Successors
The Plan and any election to defer shall be binding on (i) the Company and its successors and assigns, (ii) any Employer and its successors and assigns, (iii) each Participant, (iv) each Beneficiary, and (v) the heirs, distributees, and legal representatives of each Participant and Beneficiary.
9.08
 
Governing Law
Except to the extent that the Plan may be subject to the provisions of ERISA or the Code, the Plan shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Texas without giving effect to the conflict of laws principles thereof. In the event limitations imposed by ERISA on legal actions do not apply, the laws of the State of Texas shall apply, and a cause of action under the Plan must be brought no later than four years after the date the action accrues.
9.09 
Construction
As used herein, the masculine shall include the feminine, the singular shall include the plural, and vice versa, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Titles and headings herein are for convenience only and shall not be considered in construing the Plan. The words "hereof," "hereunder", and other similar compounds of the word "here" shall mean and refer to the entire Plan and not to any particular provision or Section.
9.10 
Taxes
Any taxes imposed on Plan benefits shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant or Beneficiary. The Company shall deduct from Plan benefits any federal taxes, state taxes, local taxes, or other taxes required to be withheld. The Company shall, unless the Plan Administrator elects otherwise, withhold such taxes at the applicable flat rate percentage. The Company shall also deduct from any payment of Compensation, including any cash incentive payments, on the date such payment would have been made if not deferred under this Plan Social Security and Medicare taxes or other taxes required to be withheld on such date.
9.11 
Non-Assignabilty
Unless otherwise required by law, and prior to distribution to a Participant or Beneficiary, Plan benefits shall not be subject to assignment, transfer, sale, pledge, encumbrance, alienation, or charge by such Participant or Beneficiary, and any attempt to do so shall be void. Plan benefits shall not be liable for or subject to garnishment, attachment, execution, or levy, or liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, or liabilities of the Participant or Beneficiary; provided, however, that the Company may offset from the payment of any Plan benefits to a Participant or Beneficiary amounts owed by the Participant to an Employer, in all events subject to the requirements of Code section 409A.
9.12 
Claims Procedure
If a Participant or Beneficiary ("claimant") does not receive the benefits which the claimant believes he or she is entitled to receive under the Plan, the claimant may file a claim for benefits with the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer (or his or her delegate). All claims must be made in writing no later than the time prescribed by Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(g) and must be signed by the claimant. If the claimant does not furnish sufficient information to determine the validity of the claim, the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer (or his or her delegate) will indicate to the claimant any additional information which is required.
Each claim will be approved or disapproved by the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer (or his or her delegate) within 90 days following receipt of the
 
information necessary to process the claim. In the event the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer (or his or her delegate) denies a claim for benefits in whole or in part, the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer (or his or her delegate) will notify the claimant in writing of the denial of the claim. Such notice by the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer (or his or her delegate) will also set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, the specific reasons for such denial, the specific Plan provisions on which the denial is based, a description of any additional material or information necessary to perfect the claim with an explanation of why such material or information is necessary, and an explanation of the Plan's claim review procedures and time limits as set forth below, and a statement that the claimant is entitled to bring court action only after exhausting all internal procedures .
A claimant may appeal a denial of his or her claim by requesting a review of the decision by the Plan Administrator. An appeal must be submitted in writing within 180 days after the denial and must (i) request a review of the claim for benefits under the Plan, (ii) set forth all the grounds upon which the claimant's request for review is based and any facts in support thereof, and (iii) set forth any issues or comments which the claimant deems pertinent to the appeal.
The Plan Administrator will make a full and fair review of each appeal and any written materials submitted in connection with the appeal. The Plan Administrator will act upon each appeal within 60 days after receipt thereof, unless special circumstances require an extension of the time for processing, in which case a decision will be rendered as soon as possible but not later than 120 days after the appeal is received. The claimant will be given the opportunity to review pertinent documents or materials upon submission of a written request to the Plan Administrator, provided the Plan Administrator finds the requested documents or materials pertinent to the appeal. On the basis of its review, the Plan Administrator will make an independent determination of the claimant's eligibility for benefits under the Plan.
The decision of the Plan Administrator on any claim for benefits will be final and conclusive upon all parties thereto. In the event the Plan Administrator denies an appeal in whole or in part, the Plan Administrator will give written notice of the decision to the claimant, which notice will set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, the specific reasons for such denial and specific reference to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision was based and provide any other additional information, as applicable, required by 29 Code of Federal Regulations 2560.503-1.
If the claimants claim or appeal is approved, any resulting payment of benefits will be made no later than the time prescribed for payment of benefits by Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(g), or its successor.
 
The J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Mirror Savings Plans I and II (Plans) were adopted effective January 1, 1999 as part of a program to redesign the Company's qualified and non-qualified savings plans to optimize the retirement savings opportunities for Associates.
The Plans are maintained by the Company on an unfunded basis primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation to a select group of management or highly compensated employees.
Effective December 31, 2006, the J.C. Penney Corporation Inc. Mirror Savings Plan I was closed to new deferrals and new participants. Effective on January 1, 2007, the J.C. Penney Corporation, Inc. amends and restates Mirror Savings Plan II and renames the plan the J.C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Mirror Savings Plan.
 
 
 
As used herein, the following words and phrases have the following respective meanings unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
 
Active Participant
: A Participant who defers part of his or her Compensation for a Plan Year (or part thereof) pursuant to an election to defer.
Associate
: Any person who is classified as an associate and employed by an Employer if the relationship between the Employer and such person constitutes the legal relationship of employer and employee.
Beneficiary
: The person or persons designated by the Participant on a beneficiary form required by the Company for this purpose to receive benefits payable under the Plan because of the Participant's death.
Code
: The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Company
: On and after January 27, 2002, J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc., a Delaware corporation. The term Company will also include any successor employer, if the successor employer expressly agrees in writing as of the effective date of succession to continue the Plan.
Company Account
: A phantom account established in accordance with Article Three to which Mirror Company Matching, Mirror Retirement Account and Mirror Discretionary contributions plus earnings are credited.
Compensation
: The total cash remuneration payable to an Associate for a Plan Year by his or her Employer, that qualifies as wages as the term wages is defined in Code section 3401 (a), determined without regard to any reduction for workers' compensation and state disability insurance reimbursements, and all other compensation payments for which his or her Employer is required to furnish the Associate a written statement under Code sections 6041(d), 6051(a)(3) and 6052, reduced by any extraordinary items of special pay.
In addition, Compensation includes any contributions made by the Associate's Employer on behalf of the Associate pursuant to a deferral election under any employee benefit plan containing a cash or deferred arrangement under Section 401(k) of the Code, and any amounts that would have been received as cash but for an election to receive benefits under a cafeteria plan meeting the requirements of Section 125 of the Code.
 
 
 Compensation also includes eligible cash incentive payments in the year paid to the Associate, and amounts deferred by the Active Participant pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Plan.
   
Compensation for a Plan Year shall be determined without regard to the limitations on annual compensation under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code and without regard to deferrals to this Plan.
An Associate who is in the service of the armed forces of the United States during any period in which his or her reemployment rights are guaranteed by law will be considered to have received the same rate of Compensation during his or her absence that he or she was receiving immediately prior to his or her absence, provided he or she returns to employment with an Employer within the time such rights are guaranteed.
Eligible Associate
: An Associate who has satisfied the eligibility requirements of the Plan for a Plan Year in accordance with Section 2.02.
Employer
: The Company and any subsidiary company or affiliate of the Company that is a Participating Employer as defined in Article I of the Savings Plan.
ERISA
: The Employee Retirement Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
Exchange Act
: The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
Human Resources and Compensation Committee
: The Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Parent Company.
Human Resources Committee
: The Human Resources Committee of the Company.
Mirror Company Matching Contributions
: The phantom amounts deemed to be contributed by the Company for each Plan Year as determined under Section 3.04.
Mirror Discretionary Contributions
: The phantom amounts deemed to be contributed by the Company for each Plan Year as determined under Section 3.06.
Mirror Investment Funds
: Phantom funds established as book reserve entries in the books and records of the Company to which a Participant's deferral amounts under the Plan are credited based on the investment elections of the
 
Participant. The investment returns of such funds shall be assumed to match the returns of the same investment funds available to participants under the Savings Plan.
 
 
Mirror Retirement Account Contributions:
The phantom amounts deemed to be contributed by the Company for each Plan Year as determined under Section 3.05.
Parent Company
: J. C. Penney Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor corporation.
Participant
: An Eligible Associate who participates in the Plan in accordance with Article Two, and who has not yet received a distribution of the entire amount of his or her vested benefits under the Plan.
Personal Account
: A phantom account established in accordance with Article Three to which a Participant's deferral amounts plus earnings are credited.
Plan
: The J.C. Penney Corporation Inc. Mirror Savings Plan, as amended from time to time.
Plan Year
: Each calendar year.
Savings Plan
: Prior to January 27, 2002, the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan, as amended from time to time, and on and after January 27, 2002, the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan, as amended from time to time.
Separation from Service
: The termination of employment of an Eligible Associate or a Participant because of retirement, resignation, discharge, disability or death
.
An Eligible Associate or Participant who transfers from one Employer to another Employer without a break in employment shall not be deemed to have a Separation from Service.
Valuation Date
: With respect to all Mirror Investment Funds, each day of a calendar year on which the New York Stock Exchange is open.
With respect to transactions or distributions initiated by a Participant or Beneficiary, (a) the date of receipt by the plan administrator of the request if it is received prior to the close of the New York Stock Exchange, or (b) the next trading day if the request is received after the close of the New York Stock Exchange.
With respect to distributions not initiated by a Participant, the date the distribution is processed.
2.01
 
Eligibility Determined for Each Plan Year
The eligibility of each Associate to participate in the Plan as an Active Participant is determined for each Plan Year in accordance with Section 2.02 below. Eligibility for, or participation in, the Plan for a Plan Year does not give an Associate the right to defer part of his or her Compensation under the Plan for any other Plan Year.
2.02
 
Eligible Associate
An Associate shall be eligible to participate in the Plan as an Active Participant for a Plan Year if the Associate for the preceding Plan Year had:
(a)
 
Satisfied the eligibility requirements to make deferrals to the Savings Plan; and
(b) Earnings in excess of $100,000 (as adjusted in accordance with Section 414(q)(1) of the Code)
Base salary shall mean the aggregate amount of the base pay rate (before any deductions of contributions or deferrals), commissions and amounts under the J.C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Management Incentive Compensation Plan due and payable to an Eligible Associate in the applicable Plan Year designated by his or her Employer as the Eligible Associate's monthly pay as reflected on the Employer's personnel records including any such amounts otherwise due and payable with respect to which his or her election to defer applies.
 
 
2.03
 
Participation
An Eligible Associate for a Plan Year shall participate in the Plan for that Plan Year as an Active Participant by making a timely election to defer in accordance with Section 2.04 below. An Eligible Associate who fails to satisfy the requirements of Section 2.04 below shall not be allowed to make an election to defer and shall not be an Active Participant for the applicable Plan Year.
A Participant who is not an Active Participant for a Plan Year shall continue to participate in the Plan in all respects except that such Participant shall not have the right to defer part of his or her Compensation under the Plan for that Plan Year, and
 
shall not be entitled to a Mirror Company Matching Contribution or a Mirror Discretionary Contribution (as determined under Sections 3.04 or 3.06, respectively) for that Plan Year. A Participant hired on or after January 1, 2007, shall be entitled to receive a Mirror Retirement Account Contribution (as determined under 3.05) regardless of whether he or she is an Active Participant.
2.04
 
 
Election to Defer
All elections to defer for a Plan Year must be made in a manner approved by the plan administrator. An Eligible Associate for a Plan Year may elect to defer a percentage (as described in Section 2.05 below) of his or her Compensation for such Plan Year by filing an election which must be received by the plan administrator by December 31 of the preceding Plan Year. A newly Eligible Associate must file his or her election with the plan administrator within 30 days of his or her first date of eligibility for participation in the Mirror Plan. An Active Participant cannot change or terminate his or her election to defer during a Plan Year for that Plan Year except to the extent allowed under the hardship provisions of Section 7.05. However, an Eligible Associate may change his or her election to defer for a subsequent Plan Year with the plan administrator by December 31 of the preceding Plan Year.
An election to defer also shall terminate:
(c)   
if the Plan is terminated, or
 
 
2.05
 
 
Deferral Amounts
An Active Participant for a Plan Year may defer
(a) up to 14% of his Compensation in that Plan Year up to the earnings dollar limit, and,
(b) up to 75% of his Compensation in that Plan Year that exceeds the earnings dollar limit.
All deferral amounts shall be in whole percentages and made by payroll deduction. The earnings dollar limit of an Active Participant for a Plan Year shall be $225,000, as adjusted for cost of living increases in accordance with Section 401(a)(17) of the Code.
2.06
 
Investment Elections
A Participant shall complete an election, in the manner determined by the plan administrator, requesting that all of his or her future deferral amounts (in whole percentages) be applied to the purchase for him or her, as of the earliest practicable Valuation Date after such amounts are deferred, of units in his or her Personal Accounts
 
within any one or more of the Mirror Investment Funds in each case at a price equal to the value of such units as of such Valuation Date.
Such election initially must be made prior to the commencement of his or her participation in the Plan and may be changed at any time during the Plan Year. Each such election shall be effective as soon as administratively feasible following receipt by the plan administrator or its delegate of the Participant's election.
In the event that no timely election by the Participant is on file with the plan administrator, such Participant shall be deemed to have elected that all deferral amounts shall be applied to the purchase for him or her of units in the Personal Account within the Mirror Investment Fund that is the Interest Income Fund.
3.01
 
Establishment of Accounts
A Personal Account and a Company Account within each Mirror Investment Fund
 
shall be established for each Participant in the Plan as if assets were invested in a trust. All amounts credited to the Personal Accounts and Company Accounts of a Participant shall at all times be held in the Company's general funds as part of the Company's general assets, unless a trust is established pursuant to Section 7.08.
The value, including gains and losses, of such accounts and funds shall be determined by the plan administrator in the same manner that the value is determined under the Savings Plan. As of each Valuation Date, the net asset value of a unit shall equal the net asset value of a unit as determined under the Savings Plan.
3.02
 
Personal Accounts
All amounts deferred by an Active Participant pursuant to Article Two shall be credited to his or her Personal Accounts within his or her Mirror Investment Funds specified in his or her investment election.
3.03
 
Company Accounts
All Company matching contributions shall be credited to the Company Account of each Active Participant at each pay period. All Mirror Retirement Account Contributions and Mirror Discretionary Contributions shall be credited to each Active Participants Company Account within 2  months of the Plan Year end.
A Mirror Company Matching Contribution, a Mirror Retirement Account Contribution and a Mirror Discretionary Contribution (as determined under Sections 3.04, 3.05 and 3.06 below, respectively) shall be deemed to be invested in his or her Company Account within the Mirror Investment Funds in accordance with the Active Participants Investment election for his or her Personal Accounts under Section 2.06 of this Plan. In the event an Active Participant does not make an investment election, the Active Participant will be deemed to have elected the Mirror Investment Fund that is the Interest Income Fund.
Any amount of Company matching contributions credited to the Participant's Company account under the Savings Plan and subsequently cancelled so that said plan could satisfy the actual contribution percentage test (as described in the Savings Plan) shall be credited to his or her Company Account within the Mirror Investment Fund that is according to the Participants investment election in the year paid.
 
 
 
All amounts credited to the Company Accounts of a Participant shall be subject to the vesting provisions of Article Five.
For each Active Participant who has completed one year of employment and 1,000 hours of service, t
he Company will credit to the Mirror Company Matching Contribution account a matching contribution for each Active Participant in an amount equal to (i) 50% (or such other percent as may be determined from time to time by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee) of the Active Participant's deferral contribution to the Plan for each payroll period that does not exceed 6% of the Active Participant's Compensation for the payroll period reduced by (ii) the maximum matching contribution the Active Participant could have received under the Savings Plan. Each Active Participant's matching contribution will be calculated in the same manner as in the examples attached to the Plan as Exhibit A. 
An Active Participant who had a Separation from Service shall vest in the Mirror Company Matching Account contribution if he or she terminated:
3.05
 
Mirror Retirement Account Contributions
For each Participant hired or rehired on or after January 1, 2007, who has completed one year of employment and 1,000 hours of service and with Compensation in excess of the earnings dollar limit, the Company shall contribute an amount to the Mirror Plan equal to the difference between the Active Participants Compensation and the earnings dollar limit multiplied by 2%.
An Active Participant must be in the active employ of an Employer on December 31 of the Plan Year to receive credit for a Mirror Retirement Account Contribution for that Plan Year; provided, however, that an Active Participant who had a Separation from Service before December 31 of said year shall receive credit for one-twelfth of the Mirror Retirement Account contribution for each month or part of a month employed during the Plan Year if he or she terminated:
An Associate shall not have a right or claim to any of the amounts contributed as a Mirror Retirement Account Contribution if the Associate is summarily discharged, as defined by the Company (including resignation in lieu thereof), unless the Benefits
 
 
Administration Committee, in its sole discretion, determines that such Associate shall be eligible for such benefits notwithstanding such summary discharge.
3.06
 
Mirror Discretionary Contribution
Pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Savings Plan, a Discretionary Contribution shall be credited for each Active Participant to the Company Account in the Mirror Plan in accordance with the calculated deferral percentage of the Active Participant and in a manner deemed appropriate by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee.
An Active Participant must be in the active employ of an Employer on December 31 of the Plan Year to receive credit for a Mirror Discretionary Contribution for that Plan Year; provided, however, that an Active Participant who had a Separation from Service before December 31 of said year shall receive credit for one-twelfth of the Mirror Discretionary Contribution for each month employed during the Plan Year if he or she terminated:
 
An Associate shall not have a right or claim to any of the amounts contributed as a Discretionary Contribution if the Associate is summarily discharged, as defined by the Company (including resignation in lieu thereof), unless the Benefits Administration Committee, in its sole discretion, determines that such Associate shall be eligible for such benefits notwithstanding such summary discharge.
 
4.01
 
 
Personal Accounts
A Participant may elect, once in each calendar day of the Plan Year, to transfer an amount (in whole percentages) equal to the value of all or part of his or her units in his or her Personal Accounts within any one or more of the Mirror Investment Funds to another one or more of his or her Personal Accounts within the Mirror Investment Funds. The value of such units shall be determined as of the Valuation Date. A transfer is effective only if made in the manner determined by the plan administrator.
4.02
 
 
Company Accounts
A Participant may elect, once in each calendar day of the Plan Year, to transfer an amount (in whole percentages) equal to the value of all or part of his or her units in his or her Company Accounts within any one or more of the Mirror Investment Funds to another one or more of his or her Company Accounts within the Mirror Investment Funds. The value of such units shall be determined as of the Valuation Date. A transfer is effective only if made in the manner determined by the plan administrator.
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, a Participant who wishes to make transfers from both his or her Personal Accounts and Company Accounts during the same day, must do so as part of the same transaction.
5.01
 
Personal Accounts
A Participant shall be 100% vested in the value of his or her Personal Accounts within his or her Mirror Investment Funds at all times without regard to whether he or she is a Participant in the Plan for any future Plan Year.
This Section 5.02 applies to Mirror Company Matching Contributions described in Section 3.04, Mirror Retirement Account Contributions described in 3.05; and Mirror Discretionary Contributions described in Section 3.06. A Participant shall be 100% vested in the value of his or her Company Accounts within his or her Mirror Investment Funds upon completion of three full years of service, and no vested interest prior to that time, for amounts credited for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2007.
For amounts credited as Mirror Company Matching Contributions for Plan Years before January 1, 2007, such amounts will vest in the same vesting percentage attributable to the value of his or her Company accounts under the Savings Plan based on his or her full years of service (as defined in the Savings Plan) in accordance with the following table:
5.03
 
Forfeitures
A Participant who is less than 100% vested in the value of his or her Company Accounts as of his or her Separation from Service shall forfeit the non-vested value of his or her Company Accounts. In the event the Participant subsequently is re-employed by an Employer within five years, the amount forfeited (without earnings) hereunder shall be restored to his or her Company Accounts in the same manner as the amount, if any, forfeited by his or her Savings Plan Company Accounts would be restored by purchasing units in accordance with the Participants investment election in effect at the time of his or her Separation from Service using the current market value as of the date of employment.
 
6.01
 
Top Hat Plan
The Plan is intended to be a "pension plan" as defined in ERISA and is maintained by the Company on an unfunded basis primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation to a select group of management or highly compensated employees. As such, the Plan is intended to be construed so as not to provide income to any Participant or Beneficiary for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code prior to actual receipt of benefit payments under the Plan.
In the event that it should subsequently be determined by statute or by regulation or ruling that the Plan is not "a plan which is unfunded and is maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees" within the meaning of sections 201(2), 301(a)(3), 401 (a)(1), and 4021(b)(6) of ERISA and section 2520.104-24 of Chapter 29 of the Code of Federal Regulations, participation in the Plan shall be restricted by the plan administrator to the extent necessary to assure that it will be such a plan within the meaning of such sections.
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, if the benefits of a Participant become taxable prior to distribution from the Plan, such amounts shall be distributed as soon as practicable to the affected Participant.
6.02
 
No Funding
Plan benefits shall be payable solely from the general assets of the Company. The Company shall not be required to, but may at its discretion, segregate or physically set aside any funds or assets attributable to Plan benefits. The Company shall retain title to and beneficial ownership of all assets of the Company, including any assets which may be used to pay Plan benefits. The cost of the Plan shall be expensed and a book reserve shall be maintained on the Company's financial statements.
No Participant or Beneficiary shall be deemed to have, pursuant to the Plan, any legal or equitable interest in any specific assets of the Company. To the extent that any Participant or Beneficiary acquires any right to receive Plan benefits, such right shall arise merely as a result of a contractual obligation and shall be no greater than, nor have any preference or priority over, the rights of any general unsecured creditor of the Company.
 
 
 
7.01
 
Normal Form of Payment
The normal form of payment of benefits under the Plan shall be 5 substantially equal annual installments payable in accordance with Section 7.02 below.
7.02
 
Separation from Service
A Participant who has a Separation from Service for a reason other than death shall be entitled to receive the vested benefits in his or her Personal Accounts and Company Accounts in 5 substantially equal annual installments.
The first annual installment shall be paid in January following the year in which occurs his or her Separation from Service. Each annual installment thereafter shall be paid in January of each year. Payment dates shall be determined by the plan administrator.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the present value of the Participants vested benefits does not exceed $5,000, such benefits shall be distributed to the Participant in a single sum payment in January following the year in which occurs the later of (a) his or her Separation from Service or (b) the date of receipt by the plan administrator of the Participants notice of employment termination. Such present value shall be determined as of the date of receipt by the plan administrator of the Participants notice of employment termination; provided, however, that if the Participant had a Separation from Service before January 1, 2000, such present value shall be determined as of December 31, 1999. The payment date shall be determined by the plan administrator.
7.03
 
Death
The Beneficiary of a Participant who (1) has a Separation from Service because of death, or (2) dies after his or her Separation from Service but before receiving all of his or her vested Plan benefits shall be entitled to receive the remaining annual installments to which the Participant was entitled as of the date of death. The first annual installment payable to the Beneficiary shall be paid in January following the Participant's date of death, or, if later, after satisfactory proof of death is received by the plan administrator. Each annual installment thereafter shall be paid in January of each year. Payment dates shall be determined by the plan administrator.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the present value of the Participants vested benefits does not exceed $5,000, such benefits shall be distributed to the Beneficiary of the Participant in a single sum payment in January following the Participants date of
 
 
 
death, or, if later, after satisfactory proof of death is received by the plan administrator. The payment date shall be determined by the plan administrator.
A single-sum distribution shall be paid to the estate of the Participant if as of the date of death (1) no valid beneficiary designation by the Participant is on file with the plan administrator, (2) the Beneficiary has predeceased the Participant, or (3) the Beneficiary has died within 30 days after the Participants date of death.
A single-sum distribution shall be paid to the estate of the Beneficiary if the Beneficiary dies before receiving all benefits to which he or she was entitled under the Plan.
7.04
 
Alternate Form of Payment
A Participant entitled to receive benefits under Section 7.02 above may make an irrevocable election to receive (1) not more than 15 substantially equal annual installments, or (2) a single-sum distribution. The election must be made prior to the Participant's Separation from Service in a manner authorized by the plan administrator. If no election has been made by the Participant, benefits shall be paid in the normal form of payment in accordance with Section 7.02 above.
The first annual installment or single-sum distribution shall be paid in January following the year in which occurs his or her Separation from Service; provided, however, that the first annual installment or single-sum distribution shall not be paid until the January following the expiration of at least one calendar year after the year in which the Participant's election is made. Each annual installment thereafter shall be paid in January of each year.
A Participant also may make an irrevocable election to defer payment of the first installment or single-sum distribution to January of a later year provided the election is made prior to the
 
Participant's Separation from Service in a manner authorized by the plan administrator. If no election has been made by the Participant, benefits shall commence in accordance with Section 7.02 or Section 7.04 above, whichever is applicable.
A Participant who elects both to change the normal form of payment and to defer payment must make the elections at the same time.
7.05
 
Hardship Distribution
A Participant or Beneficiary entitled to vested benefits under the Plan may request a single-sum distribution to satisfy a severe financial hardship resulting from an unforeseen event or emergency (as defined below) beyond his control. The distribution shall be limited to the amount necessary to satisfy the severe financial hardship (including any applicable federal, state or local taxes attributable to such distribution),
 
and shall not exceed the current value of vested benefits payable to or on behalf of the Participant or Beneficiary.
An unforeseen event or emergency may include, but is not limited to, a sudden and unexpected illness or accident of the Participant or Beneficiary or his or her dependent, loss of his or her property due to
 
casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as the result of events beyond his or her control, but shall not include the purchase of his or her home or the college expenses of his or her child.
The determination of the existence of a severe financial hardship and the approval of a hardship distribution shall be made by the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer, (or his successor by title or position) or his delegate except as provided below. Approval shall be given only if, taking into account all of the facts and circumstances, continued deferral of benefits or adherence to the Plan's payment schedule would result in a severe financial hardship to the Participant or Beneficiary. Approval shall not be granted if such hardship is or may be relieved through insurance, by liquidation of his or her assets (to the extent such liquidation would not itself cause severe financial hardship), or by terminating his or her election to defer.
With respect to a Participant who is a member of the Executive Board of the Company or a Participant who is subject to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the determination of the existence of a severe financial hardship and the approval of the hardship distribution shall be made by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee.
In the case of a Participant or Beneficiary who receives a partial hardship distribution while receiving benefit payments, the regular payment schedule of the Participant or Beneficiary shall continue following such distribution.
The payment to a Participant or Beneficiary of installments or a hardship distribution shall reduce the value of his or her accounts in his or her Mirror Investment Fund(s) as designated by the Participant or Beneficiary. In the event the Participant or Beneficiary fails to designate the Mirror Investment Funds from which payment is to be made, the value of his or her Mirror Investment Funds shall be reduced on a pro-rata basis.
7.07
 
Form of Payments
Payment of all benefits from the Plan shall be made only by check. No payments of Company stock shall be permitted.
 
 
7.08
 
Change of Control
At the time of commencement of participation in the Plan, a Participant may make an irrevocable election to have his or her Plan benefits paid in a single-sum immediately upon a Change of Control (as hereafter defined). If the Participant makes such an election as described above, his or her vested Plan benefits shall be paid in a single-sum upon a Change of Control.
If the Participant does not make such an election, then, upon a Change of Control, assets of the Parent Company in an amount sufficient to pay benefits then due under the Plan shall immediately be transferred to a grantor trust to be established by the Parent Company for the purpose of paying benefits hereunder, and the Personal Account and Company Account shall thereafter be paid to the Participant from such trust in accordance with the terms of the Plan; provided that at the time of such Change of Control, the Participant may make an irrevocable election to have his or her Plan benefits paid in a single-sum immediately, in which event the Participants benefits shall be reduced by 10% as a penalty for early withdrawal, and the Participant shall receive a single-sum payment of only 90% of his or her benefits otherwise payable under the Plan. On each anniversary date of the date of a Change of Control, the Parent Company shall transfer to the grantor trust an amount necessary to pay all benefits accrued under the plan during the preceding twelve months.
For purposes of this Section 7.08, a Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred if the event set forth in any one of the following paragraphs shall have occurred:
 
 (a)
   
  
any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Parent Company (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Parent Company or its Affiliates) representing 50% or more of the combined voting power of the Parent Companys then outstanding securities; or
(b)
 
during any period of two consecutive calendar years, the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving as directors of the Parent Company: individuals, who on July 14, 1999 constitute the Board of Directors of the Parent Company and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with the settlement of an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of the Parent Company) whose appointment or election by the Board of Directors of the Parent Company or nomination for election by the Parent Companys stockholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who either were directors on July 14, 1999 or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or
(c) there is consummated a merger or consolidation of the Parent Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Parent Company with any other corporation of entity, other than
(d)
 
the stockholders of the Parent Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Parent Company, or there is consummated a sale or disposition by the Parent Company or any of its subsidiaries of any assets which individually or as part of a series of related transactions constitute all or substantially all of the Parent Companys consolidated assets, other than any such sale or disposition to an entity at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by stockholders of the Parent Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the voting securities of the Parent Company immediately prior to such sale or disposition; or
(e)
  
the execution of a binding agreement that if consummated would result in a Change of Control of a type specified in subparagraphs (a) or (c) above (an Acquisition Agreement) or of a binding agreement for the sale of disposition of assets that, if consummated, would result in a Change of Control of a type specified in subparagraph (d) above (an Asset Sale Agreement) or the adoption by the Board of Directors if the Parent Company of a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Parent Company that, if consummated, would result in a Change of Control of a type specified in subparagraph (d) above (a Plan of Liquidation), provided, however, that a Change of Control of the type specified in this subparagraph (e) shall not be deemed to exist or have occurred as a result of the execution of such Acquisition Agreement or Asset Sale Agreement, or the adoption of such a Plan of Liquidation, from and after the Abandonment Date. As used in this subparagraph (e), the term Abandonment Date shall mean the date on which
 
(f)
 
the Board of Directors of the Parent Company adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Plan, a Change of Control has occurred.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change of Control shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of the common stock of the Parent Company immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity (i) which owns all or substantially all of the assets of the Parent Company immediately following such transaction or series of transactions, (ii) which is intended to reflect or track the value or performance of a particular division, business segment or subsidiary of the Parent Company, or (iii) which is an affiliated company, subsidiary, or spin-off entity owned by the stockholders of the Parent Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Parent Company on the date of such spin-off.
As used in connection with the foregoing definition of Change of Control, Affiliate shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act; Beneficial Owner shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act; Exchange Act shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time; Parent shall mean any entity that becomes the Beneficial Owner of at least 50% of the voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the Parent Company or of an entity that survives any merger or consolidation of the Parent Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Parent Company; and Person shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) the Parent Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Parent Company or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation or entity owned, directly or indirectly, by the
stockholders of the Parent Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Parent Company.
7.09
 
Reemployed Participants
If the Participant is reemployed, his or her scheduled payments under Section 7.02 or Section 7.04 shall cease and his or her election, if any, under Section 7.04 shall be void. The Participant may make a new election under Section 7.04 prior to his or her subsequent Separation from Service that shall apply to any unpaid benefits and to any additional benefits payable to or on behalf of the Participant because of a subsequent Separation from Service.
If no new election is made by the Participant, benefits shall be paid in the normal form of payment in accordance with Section 7.02 above.
8.01
 
Plan Amendment
The Human Resources and Compensation Committee may amend the Plan at any time and from time to time, without prior notice to any Participant or Beneficiary; provided, however, that the Human Resources Committee also may make amendments that relate primarily to the administration of the Plan, are applied in a uniform and consistent manner to all Participants, and are reported to the Human Resources and Compensation Committee.
8.02
 
Plan Termination
The Board of Directors of the Parent Company may terminate or discontinue the Plan at any time. If the Plan is terminated, it shall be on such terms and conditions as the Board of Directors of the Parent Company shall deem appropriate.
8.03
 
Automatic Plan Termination
This Plan is expressly conditioned on the continued deferral of income tax on amounts deferred by a Participant under the Plan until such amounts are actually distributed to the Participant. If, as a result of an adverse determination by the Internal Revenue Service or a change in the tax laws or applicable income tax regulations, amounts deferred by Participants under the Plan become subject to income tax prior to the actual distribution of such amounts, the Plan and each election to defer hereunder shall automatically terminate as of the effective date of such change in the law without any formal action by the Board of Directors to terminate the Plan.
9.01
 
Plan Administration
The Plan shall be administered under the direction of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee. Except as otherwise provided below, the Benefits Administration Committee shall be considered the plan administrator for purposes of ERISA.
The Human Resources and Compensation Committee may delegate all or some of the responsibility for the administration of the Plan to the Human Resources Committee or the Benefits Administration Committee in which case such Committee shall assume such delegated power and authority in administering the Plan to that extent; provided, however, that in no event shall the Human Resources Committee or the Benefits Administration Committee have any power or authority with respect to matters involving a Participant who is a member of the Executive Board of the Company or a Participant who is subject to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.
The plan administrator has the authority and discretion to construe and interpret the Plan. As part of this authority, the plan administrator has the discretion to resolve inconsistencies or ambiguities in the language of the Plan, to supply omissions from or correct deficiencies in the language of the Plan, and to adopt rules for the administration of the Plan which are not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan. The plan administrator also has the authority and discretion to resolve all questions of fact relating to any claim for benefits as to any matter for which the plan administrator has responsibility. All determinations of the plan administrator are final and binding on all parties.
Each person considered to be a fiduciary with respect to the Plan shall have only those powers and responsibilities as are specifically given that person under this Plan. It is intended that each such person shall be responsible for the proper exercise of his or her own powers and responsibilities, and shall not be responsible for any act or failure to act of any other person considered to be a fiduciary or any act or failure to act of any person considered to be a non-fiduciary.
9.02
 
Plan Expenses
All Plan administration expenses incurred by the Company or the plan administrator shall be paid by the Company.
9.03
 
Effect on Other Benefits
Participation in the Plan shall not reduce any welfare benefits or retirement benefits offered by the Company, except that the amounts deferred under the Plan and
 
any Plan benefits shall not be considered "Compensation" for purposes of the Savings Plan.
9.04
 
No Guarantee of Employment
Neither participation in the Plan nor any action taken under the Plan shall confer upon a Participant any right to continue in the employ of an Employer or affect the right of such Employer to terminate the Participant's employment at any time.
9.05
 
Disclaimer of Liability
The Employer shall be solely responsible for the payment of Plan benefits hereunder. The members of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee and the Human Resources Committee, and the officers, directors, employees, or agents of the Company or any other Employer, shall not be liable for such benefits. Unless otherwise required by law, no such person shall be liable for any action or failure to act, except where such act or omission constitutes gross negligence or willful or intentional misconduct.
9.06
 
Severability
If any provision of the Plan shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall apply only to that provision, and shall not affect or render invalid or unenforceable any other provision of the Plan. In such event, the Plan shall be administered and construed as if such invalid or unenforceable provision were not contained herein. If the application of any Plan provision to any Participant or Beneficiary shall be held invalid or unenforceable, the application of such provision to any other Participant or Beneficiary shall not in any manner be affected thereby.
9.07
 
Successors
The Plan and any election to defer shall be binding on (i) the Company and its successors and assigns, (ii) any Employer and its successors and assigns, (iii) each Participant, (iv) each Beneficiary, and (v) the heirs, distributees, and legal representatives of each Participant and Beneficiary.
9.08
 
Governing Law
Except to the extent that the Plan may be subject to the provisions of ERISA, the Plan shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Texas without giving effect to the conflict of laws principles thereof. In the event limitations imposed by ERISA on legal actions do not apply, the laws of the State of Texas shall apply, and a cause of action under the Plan must be brought no later than four years after the date the action accrues.
 
 
9.09
 
Construction
As used herein, the masculine shall include the feminine, the singular shall include the plural, and vice versa, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Titles and headings herein are for convenience only and shall not be considered in construing the Plan. The words "hereof," "hereunder", and other similar compounds of the word "here" shall mean and refer to the entire Plan and not to any particular provision or Section.
9.10
 
Taxes
Any taxes imposed on Plan benefits shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant or Beneficiary. The Company shall deduct from Plan benefits any federal taxes, state taxes, local taxes, or other taxes required to be withheld. The Company shall, unless the plan administrator elects otherwise, withhold such taxes at the applicable flat rate percentage. The Company shall also deduct from any payment of Compensation, including any cash incentive payments, on the date such payment would have been made if not deferred under this Plan Social Security and Medicare taxes or other taxes required to be withheld on such date.
9.11
 
Non-Assignabilty
Unless otherwise required by law, and prior to distribution to a Participant or Beneficiary, Plan benefits shall not be subject to assignment, transfer, sale, pledge, encumbrance, alienation, or charge by such Participant or Beneficiary, and any attempt to do so shall be void. Plan benefits shall not be liable for or subject to garnishment, attachment, execution, or levy, or liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, or liabilities of the Participant or Beneficiary; provided, however, that the Company may offset from the payment of any Plan benefits to a Participant or Beneficiary amounts owed by the Participant to an Employer.
9.12
 
Claims Procedure
If a Participant or Beneficiary ("claimant") does not receive the benefits which the claimant believes he or she is entitled to receive under the Plan, the claimant may file a claim for benefits with the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer (or his or her delegate). All claims must be made in writing and must be signed by the claimant. If the claimant does not furnish sufficient information to determine the validity of the claim, the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer (or his or her delegate) will indicate to the claimant any additional information which is required.
Each claim will be approved or disapproved by the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer (or his or her delegate) within 90 days following receipt of the information necessary to process the claim. In the event the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer (or his or her delegate) denies a claim for benefits in whole or in part, the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer (or his or her
 
 
delegate) will notify the claimant in writing of the denial of the claim. Such notice by the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer (or his or her delegate) will also set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, the specific reasons for such denial, the specific Plan provisions on which the denial is based, a description of any additional material or information necessary to perfect the claim with an explanation of why such material or information is necessary, and an explanation of the Plan's claim review procedure as set forth below. If no action is taken by the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer (or his or her delegate) on or a claim within 90 days, the claim will be deemed to be denied for purposes of the review procedure below.
A claimant may appeal a denial of his or her claim by requesting a review of the decision by the plan administrator. An appeal must be submitted in writing within six months after the denial and must (i) request a review of the claim for benefits under the Plan, (ii) set forth all the grounds upon which the claimant's request for review is based and any facts in support thereof, and (iii) set forth any issues or comments which the claimant deems pertinent to the appeal.
The plan administrator will make a full and fair review of each appeal and any written materials submitted in connection with the appeal. The plan administrator will act upon each appeal within 60 days after receipt thereof, unless special circumstances require an extension of the time for processing, in which case a decision will be rendered as soon as possible but not later than 120 days after the appeal is received. The claimant will be given the opportunity to review pertinent documents or materials upon submission of a written request to the plan administrator, provided the plan administrator finds the requested documents or materials pertinent to the appeal. On the basis of its review, the plan administrator will make an independent determination of the claimant's eligibility for benefits under the Plan.
The decision of the plan administrator on any claim for benefits will be final and conclusive upon all parties thereto. In the event the plan administrator denies an appeal in whole or in part, the plan administrator will give written notice of the decision to the claimant, which notice will set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, the specific reasons for such denial and specific reference to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision was based.
10.01
  
 
Priority over Other Provisions
 
The provisions set forth in this Article will supersede any conflicting provisions of the Plan.
10.02
 
Cancellation of Deferrals and Termination of Participation
 
Any amount subject to Code section 409A paid to a Participant during 2005 that would otherwise violate the requirements of Code section 409A(a)(2), (3), or (4) will be treated as a distribution in termination of the Participants participation in the Plan or a cancellation of the Participant's deferral election. The amounts subject to termination or cancellation will be includible in the Participants income in the calendar year 2005. This paragraph applies to (i) payments in 2005 to a specified employee, as that term is defined in Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i), within six months after the date of the Participants separation from service, as that term is defined by the Secretary; (ii) payments in 2005 pursuant to the election of an alternate form of payment under Section 7.04; and (iii) any other payments in 2005 otherwise in violation of Code section 409A(a)(2), (3), or (4).
10.03
 
Change in Payment Elections or Conditions on or Before December 31, 2006
 
With respect to amounts subject to Code section 409A, a Participant may make a new payment election on or before December 31, 2006, as permitted by the preamble to the Proposed Regulations; and the election will not be treated as a change in the timing and form of payment under Code section 409A(a)(4) or an acceleration of a payment under Code section 409A(a)(3); provided, however, that a Participant cannot in 2006 change payment elections with respect to payments that the Participant would otherwise receive in 2006, or to cause payments to be made in 2006. Any election made by a Participant on or before December 31, 2006 (including an election made before January 1, 2005) that applies to an amount accrued under the Plan subject to Code section 409A will be treated as a new election under this paragraph unless an election in 2006 would apply to amounts that otherwise would be payable in 2006.
 
 
WHEREAS, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) amended the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to add section 409A governing the inclusion in gross income of deferred compensation under nonqualified deferred compensation plans, effective with respect to amounts deferred in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2004, and in taxable years beginning before January 1, 2005, if the plan under which the deferral is made is materially modified after October 3, 2004;
WHEREAS, section 409A is a significant departure from existing laws governing the timing of inclusion in gross income of amounts deferred under nonqualified deferred compensation plans and sets out broad requirements that nonqualified deferred compensation plans must meet in order to avoid the current inclusion in gross income of amounts deferred under such plans;
WHEREAS, the Act provides that the Secretary of the Treasury (the Secretary) will have the authority to prescribe such regulations as are necessary to carry out the purposes of section 409A and to provide exceptions to certain requirements of section 409A during the transition period for plans to come into compliance with section 409A;
WHEREAS, the Secretary to date has issued guidance related to certain requirements of section 409A and will be issuing further guidance in the form of final regulations;
WHEREAS, section 409A and the guidance define a nonqualified deferred compensation plan as a plan that provides for the deferral of compensation and provide that, with certain exceptions, a deferral of compensation occurs if the service provider has a legally binding right during a taxable year to compensation that has not been actually or constructively received and included in gross income and that, pursuant to the terms of the plan, is payable to the service provider in a later year;
WHEREAS, section 409A applies to a number of the Companys arrangements, including the Supplemental Retirement Program for Management Profit - Sharing Associates of J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc.; the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Benefit Restoration Plan; and the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Mirror Savings Plans I, II, and III (collectively, the Plans);
WHEREAS, compensation under the Plans that is subject to section 409A may not be distributed earlier than (1) separation from service, (2) disability, (3) death, (4) a specified time or pursuant to a fixed schedule, (5) a change in control event, or (6) the occurrence of an unforeseeable emergency;
 
WHEREAS, section 409A provides that distributions to officers having annual compensation greater than $130,000 (adjusted for inflation and limited to 50 employees) may not be made before the date which is six months after the date of separation from service (or, if earlier, the date of death of the employee);
WHEREAS, section 409A provides that the Plans may not permit the acceleration of the time or schedule of any payment under the Plans, except as provided in regulations by the Secretary;
WHEREAS, section 409A and the guidance require that compensation for services performed during a taxable year may be deferred at the participants election only if the election to defer is made no later than the close of the preceding taxable year, or at such other time as provided in Treasury regulations, or that the Plan may specify the time and form of payment no later than the time the service provider first has a legally binding right to the compensation;
WHEREAS, the requirements of section 409A related to subsequent changes in the time and form of payment provide that the Plans may allow a subsequent election to delay the timing or form of distributions only if (1) the plan requires that such election cannot be effective for at least 12 months after the date on which the election is made; (2) except in the case of elections relating to distributions on account of death, disability, or unforeseeable emergency, the plan requires that the payment with respect to which such election is made be deferred for a period of not less than 5 years from the date such payment would otherwise have been paid; and (3) the plan requires that an election related to a distribution to be made upon a specified time may not be made less than 12 months prior to the date of the first scheduled payment;
WHEREAS, the guidance issued by the Secretary provides that the Plans must be operated through December 31, 2006, in good faith compliance with the provisions of section 409A and the guidance and that the Plans must be amended to comply with the provisions and the regulations thereunder by December 31, 2006; and
WHEREAS, the Secretary has provided for certain relief measures the Plans can adopt during the transition period for coming into compliance with section 409A; and the Committee has determined that the Plans need to be amended to provide for the transition relief set forth in Questions and Answers 19(c) and 20 of Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1, as clarified and extended in the preamble to the proposed regulations issued on October 4, 2005 (the "Proposed Regulations").
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Supplemental Retirement Program for Management Profit-Sharing Associates of J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. be, and it hereby is, amended to add a new Article X at the end thereof to read as follows, effective as of January 1, 2005;
(1)
  
Priority over Other Provisions
: The provisions set forth in this Article will supersede any conflicting provisions of the Plan.
 
(2)
  
Termination of Participation
: Any amount subject to Code section 409A paid to an Eligible Management Associate during 2005 that would otherwise violate the requirements of Code section 409A(a)(2), (3), or (4) will be treated as a distribution in termination of the Eligible Management Associate's participation in the Plan within the meaning of IRS Notice 2005-1, Q&A-20. The amounts subject to termination will be includible in the Eligible Management Associate's income in calendar year 2005. This paragraph applies to (i) payments in 2005 to a specified employee, as that term is defined in Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i), within six months after the date of the Eligible Management Associate's separation from service, as that term is defined by the Secretary; (ii) payments in 2005 pursuant to an election under Paragraph (1) of Article V to delay the commencement of annual benefits; (iii) payments in 2005 pursuant to the election of the installment option under paragraph (4) of Article V; and (iv) any other payments in 2005 otherwise in violation of Code section 409A(a)(2), (3) or (4).
(3)
  
Change in Payment Elections or Conditions on or Before December 31, 2006
: With respect to amounts subject to Code section 409A, an Eligible Management Associate may make a new payment election on or before December 31, 2006, as permitted by the preamble to the Proposed Regulations; and the election will not be treated as a change in the timing and form of payment under Code section 409A(a)(4) or an acceleration of a payment under Code section 409A(a)(3); provided, however, that an Eligible Management Associate cannot in 2006 change a payment election with respect to payments that the Eligible Management Associate would otherwise receive in 2006, or cause payments to be made in 2006. Any election made by an Eligible Management Associate on or before December 31, 2006 (including an election made before January 1, 2005) that applies to an amount accrued under the Plan subject to Code section 409A will be treated as a new election under this paragraph unless an election in 2006 would apply to amounts that otherwise would be payable in 2006.
RESOLVED that the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Benefit Restoration Plan be, and it hereby is, amended to add a new Article X at the end there of to
read as follows, effective as of January 1, 2005:
(1)
  
Priority over Other Provisions
: The provisions set forth in this Article will supersede any conflicting provisions of the Plan.
 
(2)
  
Termination of Participation
: Any amount subject to Code section 409A paid to a Participant during 2005 that would otherwise violate the requirements of Code section 409A(a)(2), (3), or (4) will be treated as a distribution in termination of the Participants participation in the Plan within the meaning of IRS Notice 2005-1, Q&A-20. The amounts subject to termination will be includible in the Participants income in calendar year 2005. This paragraph applies to (i) payments in
 
 
2005 to a specified employee, as that term is defined in Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i), within six months after the date of the Participants separation from service, as that term is defined by the Secretary; (ii) payments in 2005 pursuant to the election of the installment option under paragraph (3) of Article V; and (iii) any other payments in 2005 otherwise in violation of Code section 409A(a)(2), (3), or (4).
(3)
  
Change in Payment Elections or Conditions on or Before December 31, 2006
: With respect to amounts subject to Code section 409A, a Participant may make a new payment election on or before December 31, 2006, as permitted by the preamble to the Proposed Regulations; and the election will not be treated as a change in the timing and form of payment under Code section 409A(a)(4) or an acceleration of a payment under Code section 409A(a)(3); provided, however, that a participant cannot in 2006 change payment elections with respect to payments that the Participant would otherwise receive in 2006, or cause payments to be made in 2006. Any election made by a Participant on or before December 31, 2006 (including an election made before January 1, 2005) that applies to an amount accrued under the Plan subject to Code section 409A will be treated as a new election under this paragraph unless an election in 2006 would apply to amounts that otherwise would be payable in 2006.
 RESOLVED that, the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Mirror Savings Plans I, II, and III be, and they hereby are, amended to add a new 
   
Article Ten to
read as follows, effective as of January 1, 2005:
The provisions set forth in this Article will supersede any conflicting provisions of the Plan.
10.02
 
Cancellation of Deferrals and Termination of Participation
 
Any amount subject to Code section 409A paid to a Participant during 2005 that would otherwise violate the requirements of Code section 409A(a)(2), (3), or (4) will be treated as a distribution in termination of the Participants participation in the Plan or a cancellation of the Participant's deferral election. The amounts subject to termination or cancellation will be includible in the Participants income in the calendar year 2005. This paragraph applies to (i) payments in 2005 to a specified employee, as that term is defined in Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i), within six months after the date of the Participants separation from service, as that term is defined by the Secretary; (ii) payments in 2005 pursuant to the election of an alternate form of payment under Section 7.04; and
 
 
(iii) any other payments in 2005 otherwise in violation of Code section 409A(a)(2), (3), or (4).
With respect to amounts subject to Code section 409A, a Participant may make a new payment election on or before December 31, 2006, as permitted by the preamble to the Proposed Regulations; and the election will not be treated as a change in the timing and form of payment under Code section 409A(a)(4) or an acceleration of a payment under Code section 409A(a)(3); provided, however, that a participant cannot in 2006 change payment elections with respect to payments that the Participant would otherwise receive in 2006, or to cause payments to be made in 2006. Any election made by a Participant on or before December 31, 2006 (including an election made before January 1, 2005) that applies to an amount accrued under the Plan subject to Code section 409A will be treated as a new election under this paragraph unless an election in 2006 would apply to amounts that otherwise would be payable in 2006.
and;
RESOLVED that the officers of the Company and its counsel be, and each of them hereby is, authorized to take all such further action, and to execute and deliver all such further instruments and documents, in the name and on behalf of the Company, and under its corporate seal or otherwise, and to pay all such expenses as shall in their judgment be necessary, proper, or advisable in order fully to carry out the intent and effectuate the purposes of the foregoing resolutions and each of them.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE I.    INTRODUCTION
The Supplemental Retirement Program for Management Profit--Sharing Associates of J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. is a plan maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated associates. This document amends and restates the Plan, originally adopted effective January 1, 1978.
With respect to any Eligible Management Associate who terminated employment prior to August 1, 1995, benefits payable to such Eligible Management Associates are determined pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Supplemental Retirement Program for Management Profit-Sharing Associates of J. C. Penney Company, Inc. in effect as of July 31, 1995.
The provisions of the Plan as amended and restated herein will apply to the entire benefit of each Eligible Management Associate who is an Eligible Management Associate on or after the Effective Date and each Eligible Management Associate who had a Separation from Service prior to the Effective Date and had not commenced receiving benefit payments under the Plan as of the Effective Date. For all other Eligible Management Associates who have commenced receiving benefits under the Plan as of the Effective Date, the provisions of the Plan as in effect at the time each such Eligible Management Associates commenced receiving benefits will continue to be applicable. Set forth in Appendix IV for reference only is a copy of the Plan as in effect on October 3, 2004, and amendments to that Plan adopted after that date. Unless otherwise indicated, no provision of the Plan as amended and restated shall amend any provision of the Plan in Appendix IV.
ARTICLE II.    DEFINITIONS
For the purpose of this Plan the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Actuarial Equivalent or Actuarially Equivalent:
 
A
 
form of benefit payment under which the aggregate payments expected to be received are equal in value to the aggregate payments expected to be received under a different form of benefit payment using the interest rate and other factors set forth in this Section.
(a)
 
This paragraph applies to determine the present value of a Plan Benefit payable to an Eligible Management Associate or a Spouse in the form of five annual installments or an immediate lump sum payment. Actuarial Equivalent or Actuarially Equivalent means an amount equal to the present value of the monthly Plan Benefit payable on the applicable Payment Commencement Date to the Eligible Management Associate in the form of a Single Life Annuity, or to the Spouse in the form of a qualified preretirement survivor annuity as that term is defined in Paragraph 4 of Article IV, calculated by using the Applicable Interest Rate and the Applicable Mortality Table.
(b)
 
This paragraph applies to determine the present value of a Plan Benefit payable to an alternate payee pursuant to a domestic relations order. "Actuarial Equivalent" or "Actuarially Equivalent" means an amount calculated applying the methodology in Subparagraph (a) above using the alternate payees applicable commencement date calculated by using the Applicable Interest Rate and the Applicable Mortality Table
.
 
Applicable Interest Rate:
If an Eligible Management Associate has a Separation from Service prior to the Effective Date,
or for a Beneficiary or Spouse of an Eligible Management Associate who dies prior to the Effective Date
, the Applicable Interest Rate is the annual rate of interest on 30-year Treasury securities for the month of August, 2006, plus one percent. If an Eligible Management Associate has a Separation from Service after the Effective date, the adjusted first, second, and third segment rates under Code section 417(e)(3)(C) and (D), determined with regard to the 2008 through 2011 phase-in provision of Code section 417(e)(3)(D)(iii), for the month of August preceding a Payment Commencement Date occurring during the next following January 1 through June 30 period and for the month of February preceding a Payment Commencement Date occurring during the next following July 1 through December 31 period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of calculating the phase-in of the Applicable Interest Rate, 1% will be added to the annual rate of interest on 30-year Treasury securities for the above-determined month.
Applicable Mortality Table:
If an Eligible Management Associate has a Separation from Service prior to the Effective Date, or for a Beneficiary or Spouse of an Eligible Management Associate who dies prior to the Effective Date, the Applicable Mortality Table is the mortality table as prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury under Code section 417(e)(3) as in effect for August, 2006. If an Eligible Management Associate has a Separation from Service after the Effective Date, the Applicable Mortality Table is the mortality table as prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury under Code section 417(e)(3) for the Plan Year containing the Payment Commencement Date.
Associate
:
Any person who is employed by a Controlled Group Member if the relationship between a Controlled Group Member and such person would constitute the legal relationship of employer and employee, including an officer who may or may not be a director, but excluding a director serving only in that capacity, and excluding any employee of a Controlled Group Member substantially all the operations of which are outside the United States unless United States Social Security contributions are made on behalf of such employee.
Average Final Compensation
:
The average annual Compensation of an Eligible Management Associate in respect of the three calendar years of his highest Compensation determined by taking into account (a) the Compensation attributable to the Eligible Management Associate's Credited Service in the calendar year in which occurs such Early Retirement Date, Traditional Retirement Date, or Late Retirement Date, as the case may be, and (b) the Compensation during either of the following, whichever is appropriate:
 
(i)  the 9 full calendar years of Final Service immediately preceding the calendar year in which occurs the Eligible Management Associate's Early Retirement Date, Traditional Retirement Date, or Late Retirement Date, as the case may be; or
 
 
(ii)  if such Eligible Management Associate has less than 9 full calendar years of Final Service, the entire number of full calendar years of such Final Service immediately preceding the calendar year in which occurs the Eligible Management Associate's Early Retirement Date, Traditional Retirement Date, or Late Retirement Date, as the case may be. 
 
If such Eligible Management Associate has less than three full calendar years of Final Service prior to the calendar year in which occurs his Early Retirement Date, Traditional Retirement Date, or Late Retirement Date, Average Final Compensation shall mean the aggregate Compensation earned with respect to the Eligible Management Associate's Final Service immediately preceding the calendar year in which occurs his Early Retirement Date, Traditional Retirement Date or Late Retirement Date, divided by the total number of full months of such Final Service, multiplied by 12.
Benefit Commencement Date
:
The date upon which payment of a Pension Plan Participant's retirement benefit is scheduled to begin pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan.
Benefit Restoration Plan
:
The J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Benefit Restoration Plan, as amended from time to time.
Benefits Administration Committee
:
The committee appointed by the Human Resources Committee and authorized by Article VI to administer the Plan.
Board of Directors
:
Board of Directors of the Parent Company.
Code
:
The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. References to "regulations" are to regulations published by the Secretary of the Treasury under applicable provisions of the Code, unless otherwise expressly indicated.
Company
:
Prior to January 27, 2002, J. C. Penney Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and on and after January 27, 2002, J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc., a Delaware corporation. The term "Company" will also include any successor employer, if the successor employer expressly agrees in writing as of the effective date of succession to continue the Plan.
Company Account(s)
:
The account(s) of that name and any successor account(s) and/or fund(s) established and maintained pursuant to the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan prior to January 1, 1999, the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan, and the Mirror Savings Plans in which are reflected all Company contributions allocated to an Eligible Management Associate together with all assets attributable thereto.
Compensation
:
The total cash remuneration (including Profit Incentive Compensation) paid to an Associate by the Company or a Participating Employer, or, for the purpose of determining Average Final Compensation only, by a Controlled Group Member, that qualifies as wages as defined in Code Section 3401(a), determined without regard to any reduction for workers compensation and state disability insurance reimbursements, and all other compensation payments for which the Company or a Participating Employer or other Controlled Group Member is required to furnish the Associate a written statement under Code Sections 6041(d), 6051(a)(3) and 6052, reduced by the following items:
(a)
  
all expatriate and foreign service allowances, including without limitation
 cost-of-living adjustments;
   
(b)
  
tax gross-up payments;
(c)
  
noncash prizes;
(d)
  
income attributable to employer-provided group term life insurance;
(e)
  
income recognized with respect to stock options and stock awards;
(f)
  
tax equalizations payments;
(g)
  
taxable and nontaxable relocation payments;
(h)
  
payments of deferred amounts under any nonqualified plan of deferred compensation;
(i)
  
special payments made to an Associate under the Performance Unit Plan in the year
of retirement or disability;
   
(j)
  
severance pay, outplacement pay, and/or critical pay;
(k)
  
third-party disability payments;
(l)
  
home sale bonus payments;
(m)
  
mortgage interest assistance payments;
(n)
  
senior management perquisites, tax preparation fees, and allowances for travel from Alaska
and Hawaii;
(o)
  
legal settlements constituting back pay or other wage payments;
(p)
  
non-associate travel reimbursements;
(q)
  
clothing allowance payments; and
(r)
  
payments made pursuant to a non-compete agreement.
In addition, Compensation includes any contributions made by a Participating Employer or other Controlled Group Member on behalf of an Associate pursuant to a deferral election under any employee benefit plan containing a cash or deferred arrangement under Code Section 401(k), and any amounts that would have been received as cash but for an election to receive benefits under a cafeteria plan meeting the requirements of Code Section 125, and amounts deferred by an Associate under the Mirror Savings Plans.
Each annual payment to an Associate from the Profit Incentive Compensation shall be deemed to have been made in the calendar year immediately preceding the year in which payment was actually made. For purposes of calculating a Plan Benefit at the time of Payment Commencement Date, the Profit Incentive Compensation earned during the year of Separation from Service shall be calculated as zero at the time of Separation from Service. For purposes of calculating a Delta Benefit as provided in Paragraph 8 of Article V, the amount of the Profit Incentive Compensation shall be the amount actually paid.
For all purposes under the Plan, the Benefits Administration Committee, in its discretion, may exclude additional items from Compensation under the Plan.
An Associate who is in the service of the Armed Forces of the United States during any period in which his reemployment rights are guaranteed by law will be considered to have received the same rate of Compensation during his absence he was receiving immediately prior to his absence, provided he returns to employment with a Controlled Group Member within the time such rights are guaranteed.
Controlled Group
:
The Company and all other corporations, trades and businesses, the employees of which, together with employees of the Company, are required by the first sentence of subsection (b) , by subsection (c) , by subsection (m), or by subsection (o) of Code section 414 to be treated as if they were employed by a single employer.
 
For purposes of determining if a Separation from Service has occurred,
 
 
the Controlled Group will be determined under Code sections 414(b) and 414(c) and Treasury Regulation section 1.414(c)-2 by using the language at least 50 percent instead of at least 80 percent each place it appears in Code section 1563(a)(1),(2), and (3).
Controlled Group Member
:
Each corporation or unincorporated trade or business that is or was a member of a Controlled Group, but only during such period as it is or was such a member.
Credited Service
:
The years of credited service, up to a total maximum of 40 years, credited to an Eligible Management Associate (a) under the terms of the Pension Plan, determined without regard to any yearly limitation imposed by the terms of the Pension Plan (excluding any periods of Disability Service), and (b) under Paragraph (1) of Article VIII.
Disability Service
:
The years of disability service credited to an Eligible Management Associate under the terms of the Pension Plan.
Early Retirement Age
:
The first date on which an Eligible Management Associate has attained age 55 and has completed at least 15 years of Service.
Early Retirement Date
:
The first day of the month immediately following the date on which an Eligible Management Associate Separates from Service after having attained Early Retirement Age but before attainment of such Eligible Management Associate's Traditional Retirement Age.
Effective Date
: December 31, 2007 at 11:59 p.m.
Eligible Management Associate
:
An Associate (excluding an Associate who retired from (i) a Participating Employer before January 1, 1978, or (ii) J. C. Penney Life Insurance Company or J. C. Penney Casualty Insurance Company on or after January 1, 1990) classified under the Company's personnel policy as a management associate who has reached Early Retirement Age, or Traditional Retirement Age, and who is participating in a Profit Incentive Compensation program or other profit sharing compensation program (other than the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan or the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan) of a Participating Employer on his Traditional Retirement Date or Early Retirement Date or Late Retirement Date. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Benefits Administration Committee reserves the right to waive, in its discretion, one or more of the requirements of this paragraph on a case by case basis for any Associate age 55 who was participating in a Profit Incentive Compensation program on December 31, 1995.
ERISA
:
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
Estimated Social Security Benefit
:
(1) For purposes of the benefit provided in Paragraph (3) of Article IV the monthly benefit the Eligible Management Associate would receive under the Social Security Act at age 62 based on the following assumptions:
 
(i) All compensation earned (a) prior to the later of 1951 or the year the Eligible Management Associate attains age 22 or (b) in the year in which the Eligible Management Associate Separates from Service if such separation occurs prior to the last day of the calendar year will be disregarded;
 
(ii) Earnings for the years prior to the Eligible Management Associates employment with the Participating Employer are in the same proportion to the Taxable Wage Base in effect for the prior years as that which the first full year of earnings bore to the Taxable Wage Base in existence at that time;
 
(iii) Earnings are averaged over a number of full calendar years as determined
       by the following:
 
 
If the Eligible Management Associate's total calendar years of earnings determined under clauses (i) and (ii) above exceed the number of full years of earnings that are to be averaged based on the year of such Eligible Management Associate's birth, one or more of the Eligible Management Associate's lowest years of earnings will be disregarded until his total years of earnings equals the number of full years of earnings that are to be averaged based on the year of such Eligible Management Associate's birth.
 
(iv)   Social Security indexing factors used are those actually used by the Social Security Administration in determining the Eligible Management Associate's Social Security benefit, and if those factors are not available, the latest published factors will be used.
 
 
(2)       For Eligible Management Associates who reach Traditional Retirement Age on or prior to August 1, 2000, for purposes of clause (iii) of Subparagraph (b) of Paragraph (1) of Article IV the lesser of the benefit determined under (A) or (B) below:
(A)
 
The product of (a) multiplied by (b) with (a) being the monthly benefit the Eligible Management Associate would receive under the Social Security Act at age 62, or if retirement is later than age 62, the benefit payable at actual retirement, based on the following assumptions:
 
(i) The benefit is based solely on the compensation earned during the Eligible Management Associates calendar years of service and disregarding the
 
 
Eligible Management Associates last calendar year of service if less than a full year and disregarding completely all other years;
 
 (ii)   
Earnings are averaged over the number of years of actual credited service, as
 
         defined in the
 Pension Plan;
 
(iii)   Social Security indexing factors used are those actually used by the Social Security Administration in determining the Eligible Management Associates social security benefit, and if those factors are not available, the latest published factors will be used;
 
and
 
(b) being a fraction, not exceeding one, the numerator of which is the Eligible Management Associates years of credited service, as defined by the Pension Plan and the denominator of which is 30.
(B)
 
The monthly benefit the Eligible Management Associate would receive under the Social Security Act at age 62, or if retirement is later than age 62, the benefit payable at actual retirement, based on the following assumptions:
 
 
(i)     All compensation earned (a) prior to the later of 1951 or the year the Eligible Management Associate attains age 22 or (b) in the year in which the Eligible Management Associate Separates from Service if such separation occurs prior to the last day of the calendar year will be disregarded;
(ii)   
The Eligible Management Associate earned no compensation for calendar years before the Eligible Management Associate was employed by the Participating Employer, which years will be included in the calculation as years of zero earnings;
 
(iii)   Earnings are averaged over a number of full calendar years as
determined by the following:
 
 
If the Eligible Management Associate's total calendar years of earnings determined under clauses (i) and (ii) above exceed the number of full years of earnings that are to be averaged based on year of such Eligible Management Associate's birth, one or more of the Eligible Management Associate's lowest years of earnings will be disregarded until his total years of earnings equals the number of full years of earnings that are to be averaged based on the year of such Eligible Management Associate's birth.
 
 
(iv)   Social Security indexing factors used are those actually used by the Social Security Administration in determining the Eligible Management Associate's Social Security benefit, and, if those factors are not available, the latest published factors will be used.
For Eligible Management Associates who reach Traditional Retirement Age after August 1, 2000, for purposes of clause (iii) of Subparagraph (b) of Paragraph (1) of Article IV, Estimated Social Security Benefit shall be determined under (B) above.
Final Service
:
An Eligible Management Associate's years of Credited Service plus, if he becomes an Associate of a Controlled Group member that is not a Participating Employer, the years of Service with such Controlled Group Member that are credited to the Associate after he ceases earning Credited Service. Calendar years that include a period of Disability Service will not be included in the determination of Final Service. Calendar years of Service or of Credited Service that are interrupted by a Separation from Service or by one or more years in which the Eligible Management Associate did not receive Compensation for the entire year will be considered to be consecutive for purposes of determining consecutive years of Final Service.
Human Resources and Compensation Committee
:
The Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
Human Resources Committee
:
The Human Resources Committee of the Company.
Interest Income Account(s)
:
The account(s) of that name and any successor account(s) and/or fund(s) established and maintained pursuant to the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan and/or the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan.
Late Retirement Date
:
The first day of the month immediately following the date on which an Eligible Management Associate Separates from Service after having attained Traditional Retirement Age.
 
Matched Deposits
:
An Eligible Management Associates deposits, not in excess of 6% of his compensation (as defined in the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan, the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan and the Mirror Savings Plans), made pursuant to the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan, the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan, and the Mirror Savings Plans.
Mirror Savings Plans
:
The J.C. Penney Corporation Mirror Savings Plan, as amended from time to time.
Parent Company:
J. C. Penney Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor corporation.
Participating Employer
:
The Company and any other Controlled Group Member or organizational unit of the Company or of a Controlled Group Member which is designated as a Participating Employer under the Plan by the Human Resources
 
Committee; provided, however, that if such designation would substantially increase the cost of the Plan to the Company, such designation shall be subject to the sole discretion of the Board of Directors.
Payment Commencement Date
:
The date upon which payment of an Eligible Management Associates Plan Benefit is scheduled to begin as determined under Article V, Paragraph 3.
Payment Events
:
 
The event set forth in Paragraph 2 of Article V upon which an amount of deferred compensation
under this Plan may be paid.
Penney Stock (Company) Account
:
The account(s) of that name and any successor account(s) and/or fund(s) established and maintained pursuant to the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan and/or the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan.
Pension Plan
:
The J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Pension Plan, as amended from time to time.
Pension Plan Participant
: An Associate or former Associate who is treated as a participant under the Pension Plan.
Performance Unit Plan
:
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. 1984 Performance Unit Plan, as amended from time to time, as in existence prior to February 1, 1998 when terminated effective January 31, 1998.
Plan
:
Prior to January 27, 2002, the Supplemental Retirement Program for Management Profit-Sharing Associates of J. C. Penney Company, Inc., as amended from time to time, and on and after January 27, 2002, the Supplemental Retirement Program for Management Profit-Sharing Associates of J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. as amended from time to time.
Plan Benefit:
The benefit payable to an Eligible Management Associate on his Early Retirement Date, Traditional Retirement Date or Late Retirement date, determined in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of this Plan, or, where applicable, the qualified preretirement survivor annuity, as defined in Article IV, payable to a Spouse.
Profit Incentive Compensation
:
The share of store profits to which an Associate is entitled as a store manager or as a member of a store's management staff; the management incentive compensation to which a management Associate is entitled; the regional or district incentive compensation to which a regional or district office Associate is entitled; and, if so determined by the Human Resources Committee, any other compensation based on profits (excluding any Company contributions to and benefits under the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan and Savings, Profit--Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan) to which an Associate of a Participating Employer, or, for the purpose of determining Average Final Compensation only, a Controlled Group Member who is not a Participating Employer, is entitled.
Retirement Date
:
The first day of the month immediately following the date on which an Eligible Management Associate Separates from Service after having attained Early Retirement Age or Traditional Retirement Age.
Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan
:
The J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan, as amended from time to time.
Separation from Service or
 
Separates from Service
:
means the date an Eligible Management Associate dies, retires, or otherwise has a termination of employment from the Controlled Group, within the meaning of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(h), or its successor, taking into account the definition of Controlled Group for such purpose in this Article II, after having attained
age 55 and 15 years of Credited Service or age 60.
Service
:
The period of time credited to an Eligible Management Associate as service under the terms of the Pension Plan.
Single Life Annuity
: An annuity with no ancillary benefits, consisting of equal monthly payments beginning as of a
designated
commencement date and ending with the monthly payment due immediately prior to his death.
Specified Employee
:
An Eligible Management Associate who is a
 
specified employee within the meaning of Code section 409A, as determined in accordance with the rules specified by the Board of Directors in resolutions dated December 12, 2007.
Spouse
:
The individual to whom an Eligible Management Associate is legally married under the laws of the State (within the meaning of section 3(10) of ERISA) in which the Eligible Management Associate is domiciled, or if domiciled outside the United States, under the laws of the State of Texas subject to federal legal requirements.
Traditional Retirement Age
:
The date on which an Eligible Management Associate attains age 60.
Traditional Retirement Date
:
The first day of the month immediately following the date an Eligible Management Associate attains Traditional Retirement Age if such Eligible Management Associate Separates from Service on such date.
Valuation Date
:
With respect to the Company Accounts, excluding the Penney Stock (Company) Account, each day of the calendar year. With respect to the Penney Stock (Company) Account(s), each day of a calendar year on which the New York Stock Exchange is open. If the New York Stock Exchange is closed, the Penney Stock (Company) Account(s) will have the same value as of the last immediately preceding day the Exchange was open.
ARTICLE III.    PARTICIPATION
Each Eligible Management Associate shall participate in the Plan as of such Eligible Management Associate's Early Retirement Date, Traditional Retirement Date, or Late Retirement Date, as the case may be; provided, however, that such Eligible Management Associate who has a Separation from Service in the month of December shall commence participation in the Plan as of the last day of that December. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, and except as otherwise provided in Paragraph (8) of Article IV, effective on and after January 1, 1996, any Associate who, on December 31, 1995, was not classified as management or who was not in a Profit Incentive Compensation program shall not be considered an Eligible Management Associate and shall not participate in the Plan. In addition, effective as of the Closing (as such term is defined in Paragraph (8) of Article IV), the Eligible Management Associates whose names are set forth on Appendix II to the Plan shall cease to participate in the Plan and shall not be entitled to a benefit under any provision of the Plan. In the event an Eligible Management Associate whose name is set forth on Appendix II is employed after the Closing by the Company or any Controlled Group Member, such person will not thereafter be an Eligible Management Associate and will not participate in the Plan on or after the date of such employment.
ARTICLE IV.   BENEFITS
An Eligible Management Associate shall be entitled to a Plan Benefit equal to an amount determined as follows:
(1) 
At Early, Traditional, or Late Retirement Date
:
The annual amount of benefit payable from the Plan to an Eligible Management Associate commencing on such Eligible Management Associate's Early Retirement Date, Traditional Retirement Date, or Late Retirement Date, as the case may be, shall be:
(a)
 
the sum of
 
 
(i)  3% of the Eligible Management Associate's Average Final Compensation multiplied by such Eligible
Management Associate's Credited Service not in excess of 10 years;
 
less
(b)
 
the sum of
(i)    
the single-life, no-death-benefit annuity equivalent of (a) the annual amount of pension payable pursuant to the Pension Plan (disregarding Disability Service) assuming that the Eligible Management Associate's Benefit Commencement Date is the first day of the month immediately following the date of such Eligible Management Associate's Separation from Service, (b) the amount payable pursuant to the terms of a domestic relations order qualified under Code Section
 
414(p), (A) from the Pension Plan and (B) from benefits accrued pursuant to Section 4.1 of the Benefit Restoration Plan and (c) the accrued benefit payable pursuant to Section 4.1 of the Benefit Restoration Plan;
   (ii)     the single-life, no-death-benefit annuity equivalent, as of the Valuation Date which is the next trading date of the New York Stock Exchange following the Eligible Management Associates Separation from Service, of
 
 
 
the Benefits Administration Committee), commencing on such Eligible Management Associate's Separation from Service.
 
In determining the amount referred to in clause (ii) of subparagraph (b) of this Paragraph (1) of this Article IV, it shall be deemed that:
 
(i)     an Eligible Management Associate who has not, at all times when he was eligible to participate in the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan and the Mirror Savings Plan, contributed an amount sufficient to share, to the maximum extent, in the Company contribution to such Plan or such predecessor plan has so contributed and that an Eligible Management Associate who did not share, to the maximum extent, in Company contributions for which he was eligible under the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan due to any withdrawal of taxed Matched Deposits, be deemed not to have any such withdrawal;
 
 
(ii)    the share of any such Company contribution deemed to have been credited to an Eligible Management Associate pursuant to this Paragraph for plan years ending before January 1, 1989 shall be deemed to have experienced the same rate of dividends, earnings, and change in value as the actual rate of dividends, earnings, and change in value experienced by the Penney Stock (Company) Account under the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan from the time such share of a Company contribution is deemed to have been credited for said plan years and that the value of this said amount as of December 31, 1988 under the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan, plus the share of any such Company contribution deemed to have been credited to an Eligible Management Associate pursuant to this Paragraph for plan years beginning after December 31, 1988 shall be deemed to have experienced the same rate of earnings and change in value experienced by the Interest Income Account under the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan from the time such share of a Company contribution is deemed to have been credited for said plan years;
(iii)  
the value of the amount of the Company Account(s) and annual limit make-up account paid out pursuant to a domestic relations order qualified under Section 414(p) of the Code deemed to have been credited to an Eligible Management Associate pursuant to this Paragraph shall be deemed to have experienced the same rate of earnings and change in value experienced by the Interest Income Account under the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan from the time such amount is deemed to have been credited; and
 
 
(iv)   the rates used to determine the single-life, no-death-benefit annuity equivalent shall be the rates that the Benefits Administration Committee, in its discretion, shall determine.
 
(2)   
Minimum Benefit
:
In no event will the amount payable to an Eligible Management Associate under Paragraph (1) of this Article IV at such Eligible
 
 
Management Associate's Traditional Retirement Date or Late Retirement Date, as the case may be, be less than the difference between:
 
(A)   the amount of pension payable pursuant to the early retirement pension benefit provision of the Pension Plan (determined without regard to any compensation or benefit limits imposed by the Code) that would be applicable if the Eligible Management Associate elected to receive benefits pursuant to that provision prior to such Eligible Management Associate's normal retirement date, as defined in the Pension Plan (disregarding Disability Service, if any, and including as Credited Service any increase granted under Article VIII hereof) assuming the Eligible Management Associate's Benefit Commencement Date is the first day of the month immediately following the day of such Eligible Management Associate's Separation from Service under this Plan, and
 
 
(B)     the amount of pension payable pursuant to the early retirement pension benefit provision of the Pension Plan (determined without regard to any compensation or benefit limits imposed by the Code) that would be applicable if the Eligible Management Associate did not elect to receive benefits pursuant to that provision prior to the Eligible Management Associate's normal retirement date, as defined in the Pension Plan (disregarding Disability Service, if any, and including as Credited Service any increase granted under Article VIII hereof).
In no event will the amount payable under Paragraph (1) of this Article IV be made to an Eligible Management Associate who:
(a)    Separates from Service on his Early Retirement Date within one year prior to his Traditional Retirement Date and who is granted additional Credited Service pursuant to Paragraph (1) of Article VIII at his Early Retirement Date, or
(b)    Separates from Service because of a reduction in force and is designated as an individual termination by the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer of the Company, or his delegate or successor, in accordance with Paragraph (1) of Article VIII and who is granted deemed additional
 
months of Credited Service thereunder be less than the difference between
(A)    
the amount of pension that would be payable (determined without regard to any compensation or benefit limits imposed by the Code) at such Eligible Management Associate's normal retirement date, as defined by the Pension Plan (disregarding Disability Service, if any, and including as Credited Service, as defined by the Pension Plan, any increase granted under Article VIII hereof), and
 
(B)
  
the amount of pension payable pursuant to the early retirement pension benefit provision of the Pension Plan (determined without regard to any compensation or benefit limits imposed by the Code) that would be
 
 
 
applicable if the Eligible Management Associate elected to receive benefits pursuant to that provision prior to such Eligible Management Associate's normal retirement date, as defined by the Pension Plan (disregarding Disability Service, if any, and excluding as Credited Service any increase granted under Article VIII hereof) assuming the Eligible Management Associate's Benefit Commencement Date is the first day of the month following such associate's Separation from Service, but in no event prior to the date such associate reaches age 59.
(3)   
Social Security Make-up
:
In addition to any other benefit payable under this Plan, a benefit equal to the Estimated Social Security Benefit shall be payable in to an Eligible Management Associate commencing on such Eligible Management Associate's Traditional Retirement Date or Late Retirement Date up to age 62, as the case may be, (or, for an Eligible Management Associate who Separates from Service within one year prior to his Traditional Retirement Date and who is granted any adjustment pursuant to either clause (i) or (ii) of Paragraph (1) of Article VIII, on his Early Retirement Date).
An Eligible Management Associate, who, on his Separation from Service, is entitled to disability benefits under the United States Social Security laws, shall not be eligible for any Social Security make-up benefits provided for in this paragraph.
 
(4)   
Death Benefit
:
For purposes of the benefit provided by Paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article IV, i
f an Eligible Management Associate who has a vested interest in his benefit is married at the time such Eligible Management Associate has a Separation from Service by reason of death, the Eligible Management Associates Spouse will receive a benefit in the form of five equal annual installments commencing as of the first day of the month after the Eligible Management Associates death. The amount of such death benefit will be calculated to be Actuarially Equivalent by reference to the Single Life Annuity that would be payable to the Spouse as a qualified preretirement survivor annuity based on the Eligible Management Associates Plan Benefit in Paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article IV and such amount will be adjusted to reflect payment over five years in the manner described in Paragraph 1 of Article V. For these purposes, a qualified preretirement survivor annuity means a monthly annuity for the life of the Spouse of a deceased Eligible Management Associate equal to the monthly annuity that the Spouse would have received under a qualified joint and survivor annuity, with the survivor annuity being equal to 100% of the amount of the monthly annuity payable during the joint lives of the Eligible Management Associate and his Spouse if the Eligible Management Associate dies on or after the day he attains Early Retirement Age or Traditional Retirement Age. The calculation of the qualified joint and survivor annuity shall be determined by reference to the factors used under Exhibit E to Appendix I to the Pension Plan, or its successor. No benefit under this Plan will be payable to a single Eligible Management Associate who has a Separation from Service due to death.
If a Eligible Management Associate who has a Separation from Service (other than by death) and who is either married or single at the time of his subsequent death dies before payment of his vested benefit has begun under the Plan, the Eligible Management Associates Beneficiary will receive the benefit in the form of five equal annual installments equal to the amount that would have been payable under Paragraph 1 of Article V and at
 
 
the same time. If no Beneficiary has been designated by such a Eligible Management Associate, the Beneficiary will be deemed to be the Spouse for a married Eligible Management Associate and the estate for a single Eligible Management Associate.
In the event of the death of a Eligible Management Associate after his benefit has commenced and before all installments have been paid, the remaining unpaid installments shall be paid to his Beneficiary in accordance with the payment schedule of the Eligible Management Associate.
(5) 
Life Insurance Coverage
:
Commencing on an Eligible Management Associate's Traditional Retirement Date or Late Retirement Date, as the case may be, and ending on such Eligible Management Associate's attainment of age 70, the Company will continue to provide an Eligible Management Associate who has at least 10 years of uninterrupted employment with a Participating Employer with term life insurance coverage at Company expense on a decreasing coverage basis.
The amount of coverage to be provided into retirement shall be equal, at such Eligible Management Associate's Traditional Retirement Date, to 100% of the amount of coverage being provided to him at Company expense immediately prior to the attainment of his Traditional Retirement Age reduced to 90%, 80%, 70%, 60%, 50%, 40%, 30%, 20%, and 10% of such amount of coverage on the first day of the month following his attainment of age 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, and 69, respectively.
The amount of coverage to be provided at a Late Retirement Date shall be the applicable percentage based upon the Eligible Management Associate's age on such Late Retirement Date multiplied by the amount of coverage being provided to him at Company expense immediately prior to his Late Retirement Date and decreasing thereafter as provided in the preceding sentence.
If, on the Eligible Management Associate's Traditional Retirement Date or Late Retirement Date, as the case may be, such Eligible Management Associate is already covered by term life insurance under the Company's term life insurance plan on account of the Eligible Management Associate's total disability, such Eligible Management Associate shall not be eligible for any term life insurance coverage provided for in this paragraph. Benefits payable under this Plan will be paid to the beneficiary designated by the Eligible Management Associate as soon as practicable after receipt of a properly submitted claim.
An
Eligible Management Associate
whose group term life insurance coverage under the Plan terminates because of his attainment of age 70 will have the right to convert his group term life insurance coverage to an individual policy to the extent, and only to the extent, permitted under the group policy applicable to the
Eligible Management Associate
. Any election to convert to individual coverage must be made within 31 days after the
Eligible Management Associates
coverage under the Plan terminates and must be made in accordance with all requirements specified in such policy. The amount of coverage that may be converted shall be the amount in effect immediately before the
Eligible Management Associate
attained age 70.
 
(6) 
Nonduplication of Benefits
:
 
The benefits payable to or on behalf of an Eligible Management Associate under the Plan shall not duplicate benefits payable from the Pension Plan, the Benefit Restoration Plan, or the Mirror Savings Plans, of the Company or a Participating Employer or a Controlled Group Member. To the extent that any benefits otherwise payable under the Plan are paid from one or more of the plans or programs described in the prior sentence, such benefits under the Plan shall be cancelled.
 
(7) 
Change in Control Plan
.
If the Board of Directors exercises its discretion under Paragraph 11 of Article VIII, to terminate the Plan because of a Change in Control (as defined in Paragraph 11(c)) and an Eligible Management Associate is a participant in the J.C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Change in Control Plan (Change in Control Plan), that Eligible Management Associates interest in his Plan Benefit will become 100% vested and nonforfeitable without regard to his years of service or age. If a Eligible Management Associate who is also a participant in the Change in Control Plan has an employment termination following a change in control as those terms are defined in the Change in Control Plan, his interest in his Plan Benefit will become 100% vested and nonforfeitable without regard to his years of Final Service or age.
(8)
Benefits for Certain Former Financial Services Plan Participants
:
The provisions of this Paragraph (8) will become effective on the close of the transactions (Closing) contemplated by that certain Stock Purchase Agreement among Commonwealth General Corporation, J. C. Penney Company, Inc. and J. C. Penney Direct Marketing Services, Inc. dated as of March 7, 2001, provided that the Closing occurs on or before September 30, 2001.
The Plan hereby assumes the accrued retirement income benefit obligation under the Supplemental Retirement Program for Eligible Management Associates of JCPenney Financial Services (the Financial Services Plan) for each former Associate who (i) retired or separated from service prior to the Closing with a right to a retirement income benefit under the Financial Services Plan and who had not begun to receive retirement income benefits from the Financial Services Plan as of the Closing and (ii) whose name is not set forth on Appendix I to the Financial Services Plan, which Appendix is reproduced and attached as Appendix III to the Plan. Each such former Associate will be entitled to a retirement income benefit under this Plan in the amount of such former Associates Financial Services Plan accrued retirement income benefit and payable in the same form and at the same time as such Financial Services Plan accrued retirement income benefit would have been paid to the extent allowed under Code section 409A. Otherwise these benefits will be paid in accordance with Paragraph 3 of Article V. In addition, the Plan hereby assumes the obligation of the Financial Services Plan to make continued monthly retirement income benefit payments to each former Associate who retired prior to the Closing and had begun to receive retirement income benefits from the Financial Services Plan as of the Closing in the same amount, the same form and at the same time as such former Associates Financial Services Plan retirement income benefit was being paid.
 
ARTICLE V.   FORM AND COMMENCEMENT OF BENEFIT PAYMENTS
(1)
 
Form of Benefit Payments
. Except as otherwise provided in this Plan, benefits will be paid in the form of five equal annual installments. The present value of such installments will be equal to the Actuarially Equivalent amount determined under Article II. For an Eligible Management Associate who has a Separation from Service after the Effective Date, the amount of such annual installments will be calculated by using only the adjusted first segment rate of the Applicable Interest Rate, determined with regard to the 2008 through 2011 phase-in provisions of Code section 417(e)(3)(D)(iii). For an Eligible Management Associate who has a Separation from Service prior to the Effective Date, the amount of such annual installments will be calculated by using the Applicable Interest Rate that applies to such Eligible Management Associate. The lookback and stability periods set forth in the definition of Applicable Interest Rate will apply in determining the adjustment.
(2)
 
Payment Events
. The Payment Event for an Eligible Management Associate will be the later of (i) Separation from Service or (ii) January 1, 2008; provided, however, that if a Specified Employees Separation from Service (other than by reason of death) occurs prior to January 1, 2008, and the date of such Separation from Service plus six months is after January 1, 2008, Separation from Service will be the deemed Payment Event for such a Specified Employee.
(3)
 
Payment Commencement Date.
The Payment Commencement Date for a Eligible Management Associate (including a Specified Employee) whose Payment Event under Paragraph 2 of this Article V is Separation from Service will be the first day of the month following the date of his Separation from Service; provided, however, that the actual time of the first payment to a Specified Employee will be determined in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 4 of Article V. For all other Eligible Management Associates, the Payment Commencement Date for benefits under Paragraph 1 of Article IV will be January 1, 2008, or as soon as practicable thereafter, but no later than the time required for payment under Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(d), or its successor. Subsequent installments for all Eligible Management Associates, including Specified Employees, will be paid on the first through fourth anniversaries of the Payment Commencement Date.
The Payment Commencement Date in the case of a death benefit will be determined under Paragraph 4 of Article IV. For an alternate payee, the Payment Commencement Date will be the applicable commencement date as provided in a domestic relations order that conforms with the requirements of Code section 409A and Treasury regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ii), or its successor.
(4)
 
Delay for Specified Employees.
If an Eligible Management Associate is a Specified Employee as of the date of his Separation from Service and his Payment Event is Separation from Service (other than by reason of death), payment will not be made before the date that is six months after the date of Separation from Service. The first payment to such a Specified Employee will be paid on the first day of the seventh month following the date of Separation from Service. The initial installment payment to a Specified Employee whose Separation from Service occurs after December 31, 2007, will
 
include an interest adjustment. Such adjustment will be calculated by using only the adjusted first segment rate of the Applicable Interest Rate, determined with regard to the 2008 through 2011 phase-in provisions of Code section 417(e)(3)(D)(iii). The lookback and stability periods set forth in the definition of Applicable Interest Rate will apply in determining the adjustment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no interest will be paid to a Specified Employee whose Separation from Service occurs before January 1, 2008. If a Specified Employee dies after a Separation from Service but prior to the expiration of the six-month delay, benefit payments under Article IV will commence to the Beneficiary in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 4 of Article IV.
(5)
 
Subsequent Changes in Time and Form of Payment
.
No Eligible Management Associate can make a subsequent election to delay a payment or change the form of payment.
 
(6)
 
Prohibition on Acceleration of Payment
.
Except as provided in Code section 409A, Treasury regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4) or its successor, this Paragraph 6 and Paragraph 7 of this Article, and Paragraph 11 of Article VIII, neither the Eligible Management Associate nor the Company can accelerate the time or schedule of any payment or amount scheduled to be paid pursuant to the terms of the Plan. The Benefits Administration Committee will have the discretion to accelerate payments in accordance with the provisions of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4), or its successor (provided that only the Board of Directors of the Parent Company will have the discretion to accelerate payments in accordance with the provisions of Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix) or its successor).
(7)
 
Limited Cashouts
.
If the present value, as determined herein, of an Eligible Management Associates or Beneficiary's benefit under Article IV when combined with the present value of an Eligible Management Associates or Beneficiary's interest in any other agreements, methods, programs, or other arrangements with respect to which deferrals of compensation are treated as having been deferred under a single nonqualified deferred compensation plan under Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(c)(2), or its successor, is equal to or less than the applicable dollar amount under Code section 402(g)(1)(B), in effect for the year of distribution, the Benefits Administration Committee of the Company will distribute the benefit in the form of an immediate lump sum payment that is the Actuarial Equivalent of such vested Plan Benefit on the Payment Commencement Date (or, if applicable, the date specified in Paragraph 4 of this Article), provided that the Eligible Management Associate is not also a participant in the Mirror Savings Plan, or its successor, and
 
the payment results in the termination and liquidation of the entirety of the Eligible Management Associates interest under this Plan and all other agreements, methods, programs, or other arrangements aggregated with this Plan and is in accordance with Treasury regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(v), or its successor. In the case of a Specified Employee, the benefit will be paid at the time specified in Paragraph 4 of this Article V, with the comparable adjustment for interest as described in Paragraph 4 of this Article.
(8) 
Delta Benefit
.
In the event an Eligible Management Associate receives a cash incentive award under the Management Incentive Compensation Plan after payment of his benefit has begun, such Eligible Management Associate shall receive a delta benefit equal to the present value of any incremental increase in the Eligible Management
 
 
Associates Plan Benefit attributable to such cash incentive award. Such
determination will be made as of the original payment commencement date
. Such delta benefit shall be payable as a lump sum no later than two and  months following the Plan Year in which the Eligible Management Associates right to such cash incentive award is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture under Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1.
 
 
ARTICLE VI.   ADMINISTRATION
The Benefits Administration Committee will administer the Plan and will have the full authority and discretion to accomplish that purpose, including without limitation, the authority and discretion to:
 
(i)     interpret the Plan in accordance with Code section 409A and correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency or ambiguity in the Plan in the manner and to the extent that the Benefits Administration Committee deems desirable to carry on the purpose of the Plan;
 
(ii)    
resolve all questions relating to the eligibility of Associates to become Eligible Management Associates and the eligibility of Eligible Management Associates to participate in the Plan;
 
(iii)   determine the amount of benefits payable to Eligible Management Associates and authorize and direct the Company with r
espect to
the payment of benefits under the Plan;
 
(iv)   make all other determinations and resolve all questions of fact necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan; and
 
(v)     make, amend, and rescind such rules as it deems necessary for the proper administration of the Plan.
 
The Benefits Administration Committee will keep a written record of its action and proceedings regarding the Plan and all dates, records, and documents relating to its administration of the Plan.
Any action taken or determination made by the Benefits Administration Committee will be conclusive on all parties. No member of the Benefits Administration Committee will vote on any matter relating specifically to such member. In the event that a majority of the members of the Benefits Administration Committee will be specifically affected by any action proposed to be taken (as opposed to being affected in the same manner as each other Eligible Management Associate in the Plan), such action will be taken by the Human Resources Committee.
ARTICLE VII.   TYPE OF PLAN
The Plan is a plan which is unfunded. The Plan is maintained by the Company primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees. The Plan shall be construed according to the provisions of ERISA applicable to such plans. Benefits under the Plan (other than the life insurance benefits referred to in Paragraph (5) of Article IV which may be insured) are paid from the general assets of the Company.
In the event that it should subsequently be determined by statute or by regulation or ruling that the Plan is not a plan which is unfunded and is maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees" within the meaning of sections 201(2), 301(a)(3), 401(a)(1), and 4021(b)(6) of ERISA and section 2520.104-24 of Chapter 29 of the Code of Federal Regulations, participation in the Plan shall be restricted by the Benefits Administration Committee to the extent necessary to assure that it will be such a plan within the meaning of such sections.
ARTICLE VIII.   MISCELLANEOUS
(1)
Additional Credited Service and Other Adjustments
:
For all purposes of the Plan, the Credited Service of an Eligible Management Associate may be increased, and with respect to an Eligible Management Associate whose Early Retirement Date is within one year prior to his Traditional Retirement Date, (i) the percentage reduction on account of early retirement referred to in clause (iv) of Subparagraph (a) of Paragraph (1) of Article IV may be decreased or waived, and (ii) the entitlement to and the amount of benefits or coverage referred to in Paragraphs (2), (3), and (5) of Article IV may be adjusted or increased, as the case may be, in the discretion of:
(a)  
in the case of an Eligible Management Associate other than members of the Companys executive or senior management committee (or a successor committee then in place) described in Subparagraphs (b) and (c) of this Paragraph (1), the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Human Resources Officer;
(b)  
in the case of an Eligible Management Associate who is a member of the Companys executive or senior management committee but who is not a director of the Company, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee; and
(c)  
in the case of the Chairman of the Board and an Eligible Management Associate who is a member of the Companys executive or senior management committee and who is also a director of the Company, the Board of Directors.
For all purposes of the Plan, the Benefits Administration
 
Committee in its discretion, may make adjustments in Compensation and Credited Service with respect to payments of severance pay, including, but not limited to, outplacement pay and critical pay; provided that such adjustments comply with the requirements of Code section 409A.
For purposes of a unit closing, job restructuring or reduction in force, the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer of the Company, or his delegate or successor, may in his discretion, make adjustments in Credited Service, Service and/or Age, but in no event shall this discretion allow for an amount of the benefit to be less than the Eligible Management Association would have otherwise received under Article IV. A unit closing, job restructuring or reduction in force shall be determined by the Company entitling the Eligible Management Associate to severance pay under the Companys then existing Separation Pay Plan.
For the purpose of determining life insurance coverage under paragraph (5) of Article IV, an Eligible Management Associate deemed to have attained Traditional Retirement Age shall be entitled to coverage effective on the first day of the month following his Separation from Service.
 
The amount of such coverage shall be equal to 100% of the amount being provided to him at Company expense immediately prior to his Separation from Service. Said amount shall be reduced in accordance with paragraph (5) of Article IV starting with the first day of the month following his attainment of age 61.
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, an Eligible Management Associate (excluding Officers of the Company) who is entitled to a benefit pursuant to the formula described in paragraph (1) of Article IV as of the Associates Early Retirement Date, Traditional Retirement Date or Late Retirement Date, as the case may be (formula benefit), (i) who received from the Company as part of the Companys offer in 1997 to participate in the Voluntary Early Retirement Program, a personalized statement showing the aggregate benefits earned as of January 1, 1998, from the Plan, the Pension Plan and, if applicable, the Benefit Restoration Plan, (earned benefit) and (ii) who retires from the Company prior to January 1, 1999, shall receive the greater of: (a) the formula benefit, or (b) an amount derived by subtracting the aggregate benefit payable to the Associate from the Pension Plan and, if applicable, the Benefit Restoration Plan from the earned benefit.
(2) 
Amendment and Termination
:
(a) The Human Resources and Compensation Committee may amend or modify the Plan at any time, without prior notice; provided, however, that any such amendment or modification which would substantially increase the cost of the Plan to the Company shall require approval of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may suspend, discontinue, or terminate and liquidate the Plan at any time without prior notice or approval.
Any termination and liquidation of the Plan, including any termination and liquidation of the Plan upon a Change in Control (as defined in Paragraph 11(c) of Article VIII), must comply with the provisions of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix), or its successor
.
Subject to the foregoing,
in no event will any amendment, modification, suspension, discontinuance, or termination adversely affect existing life insurance coverage for retirees or the Plan benefit for any Eligible Management Associate for whom benefit payments have already begun in accordance with the Plan as in effect prior to the effective date of the amendment, modification, suspension, discontinuance, or termination unless otherwise required to comply with applicable law.
(b) For the purpose of termination of the Plan under this paragraph only, the Eligible Management Associate will be deemed to have had a Separation from Service in order to calculate the Plan Benefit, and the amount of the distribution shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of the Plan Benefit. In calculating the Plan Benefit, the date of the deemed Separation from Service will be the actual date of the Plan termination.
(i)
 
If the Plan is terminated, any Eligible Management Associate who, as of the effective date of Plan termination, has reached Traditional Retirement Age but who has not reached age 65 shall be entitled to receive, at his deemed Separation from Service
 
as defined in Paragraph 2(b) of this Article VIII the benefits, if any, to which he would have been entitled under Paragraph (1) or (2) or (3) of Article IV, had he Separated from Service on the day before the effective date of Plan termination.
(ii) If the Plan is terminated, any Eligible Management Associate who, as of the effective date of Plan termination, has reached his Early Retirement Date (assuming a Separation from Service on such date) shall be entitled to receive, at his deemed Separation from Service as defined in Paragraph 2(b) of this Article VIII, the benefits, if any, to which he would have been entitled under Paragraph (1) or (2) or (3) of Article IV
 
 
 
 
calculated as if he had reached his Traditional Retirement Age and Separated from Service on the day before the effective date of Plan termination and disregarding the percentage reduction on account of early retirement referred to in clause (iv) of Subparagraph (a) of Paragraph (1) of Article IV.
 
(iii) If the Plan is terminated, any Associate who, as of the effective date of Plan termination (a) has reached age 50, (b) has 10 or more years of credited service, as defined by the Pension Plan, and (c) would have been an Eligible Management Associate but for his age or service, and (d) is not otherwise eligible for benefits under this Paragraph (2) of this Article VIII, shall be entitled to receive, at his deemed Separation from Service
 
as defined in Paragraph 2(b) of this Article VIII, a benefit equal to the difference between the amount of pension which would be payable pursuant to the early retirement pension benefit provision of the Pension Plan that would be applicable if the Eligible Management Associate elected to receive benefits pursuant to that provision prior to his normal retirement date, as defined in the Pension Plan (disregarding Disability Service, if any) and the amount of pension payable pursuant to the early retirement pension benefit provision of the Pension Plan that would be applicable if the Eligible Management Associate did not elect to receive benefits pursuant to that provision prior to his normal retirement date, as defined in the Pension Plan (disregarding Disability Service, if any) reduced by the percentage derived by dividing the number of months of Credited Service, if any, after Traditional Retirement Date (assuming a separation from Service) by 60.
 
 
(c) In no event will any future amendment or modification of the Plan adversely affect the right to Plan benefits which vest on Plan termination as set forth in this Paragraph (2) without the consent of at least 75 percent of the affected Eligible Management Associates unless such amendment or modification is specifically required to comply with applicable law.
(d) Each amendment to the Plan by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee or the Board of Directors will be made only pursuant to unanimous written consent or by majority vote at a meeting. Upon such action by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee or the Board of
 
Directors, the Plan will be deemed amended as of the date specified as the effective date by such action or in the instrument of amendment. The effective date of any amendment may be before, on, or after the date of such action of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee or the Board of Directors.
(3)
Rights of
 
Associates
:
Except for the Associate's non-forfeitable interest as set forth in Paragraph (2) of this Article VIII, neither the establishment of the Plan nor any action thereafter taken by the Company or any Controlled Group Member or by the Benefits Administration Committee shall be construed as giving to any Associate any vested right to a benefit from the Plan or a right to be retained in employment or any specific position or level of employment with the Company, or any Controlled Group Member. Moreover, no Associate shall have any right or claim to any benefits under this Plan if the Associate is summarily dismissed as defined by the Companys policies and procedures (including resignation in lieu thereof), unless the Benefits Administration Committee in its discretion determines that such Associate shall be eligible for such benefits notwithstanding such summary dismissal.
 
 
(4)
Mistaken Information
:
If any information upon which an Eligible Management Associate's benefit under the Plan is calculated has been misstated by the Eligible Management Associate or is otherwise mistaken, such benefit shall not be invalidated (unless upon the basis of the correct information the Eligible Management Associate would not have been entitled to a benefit), but the amount of the benefit shall be adjusted to the proper amount determined on the basis of the correct information and, to the extent permitted by Section 409A any overpayments shall be charged against future payments to the Eligible Management Associate or his beneficiary or otherwise required to be repaid by the recipient.
(5)
Liability
:
Neither the Board of Directors (including any committees thereof) or Board of Directors of the Company or of any Participating Employer nor any member of the Benefits Administration Committee or the Human Resources Committee nor any person to whom any of them may delegate any duty or power in connection with administering the Plan shall be personally liable for any action or failure to act with respect to the Plan.
(6)
Benefits for Reemployed Eligible Management Associates
:
If a retired Eligible Management Associate subsequently is reemployed by a Participating Employer, the payment of benefits hereunder shall continue. Any life insurance coverage in effect pursuant to Paragraph (5) of Article IV shall cease effective on the date a rehired (whether or not participating in a Profit Incentive Compensation program) Associate becomes eligible for coverage under the Company's term life insurance plan. Upon such Associate's subsequent Separation from Service he shall be entitled to receive applicable benefits, if any, under Article IV offset by prior payments from this Plan adjusted with interest pursuant to uniform rules approved by the Benefits Administration Committee.
(7)
Construction
:
In determining the meaning of any provision of the Plan, words imparting the masculine gender shall include the feminine and the singular shall include the plural, unless the context requires otherwise. Headings of paragraphs and Articles in the Plan are for convenience only and are not intended to modify or affect the meaning of the substantive provisions of the Plan.
(8)
Non-assignability of Benefits
:
The benefits payable hereunder or the right to receive future benefits under the Plan may not be anticipated, alienated, pledged, encumbered, or subjected to any charge or legal process, and if any attempt is made to do so, or a person eligible for any benefits becomes bankrupt, the interest under the Plan of the person affected may be terminated by the Benefits Administration Committee which, in its sole discretion, may cause the same to be held or applied for the benefit of one or more of the dependents of such person or make any other disposition of such benefits that it deems appropriate, in all events subject to the requirements of Code section 409A.
(9)
Governing Law
:
Except to the extent that the Plan may be subject to the provisions of ERISA, the Plan will be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Texas, without giving effect to the conflict of laws principles thereof. Except as otherwise required by ERISA, every right of action by an Associate, former
 
 
Associate, or beneficiary with respect to the Plan shall be barred after the expiration of three years from the date of Separation of Service of the Eligible Management Associate or the date of receipt of the notice of denial of a claim for benefits, if earlier. In the event ERISA's limitations on legal actions do not apply, the laws of the State of Texas with respect to limitations of legal actions shall apply and the cause of action must be brought no later than four years after the date the action accrues.
(10)
Transferred Eligible Management Associates
:
In the event of the transfer of an Eligible Management Associate after December 31, 1995 from a Participating Employer to a "non-participating employer" as defined below, said Eligible Management Associate shall continue to be eligible to participate in this Plan in accordance with Article III.
In the event of the transfer of an Eligible Management Associate on or after March 8, 1995 but on or before December 31, 1995 to a non-participating employer, said Eligible Management Associate will continue to be eligible to participate in this Plan in accordance with Article III provided that on December 31, 1995 the Eligible Management Associate (a) is in the employ of the non-participating employer and (b) is not eligible to participate in the Supplemental Retirement Program for Eligible Management Associates of JCPenney Financial Services.
The Service and Compensation of the Eligible Management Associate with the non-participating employer shall be recognized as attributable to a Participating Employer to the extent permitted by the Plan in determining benefits under the Plan. A non-participating employer shall mean a participating employer in the Supplemental Retirement Program for Eligible Management Associates of JCPenney Financial Services.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Paragraph (10), an entity that ceases to be a member of the Controlled Group immediately after the Closing (as such term is defined in Paragraph (8) of Article IV) will not be a non-participating employer for any purpose of this Plan.
(11)
Change in Control
:
(a)    
Authority of the Board of Directors
. Upon a Change in Control as defined in Paragraph 11(c) of this Article VIII, the Board of Directors of the Parent Company will have the discretion and the authority to (i) terminate and liquidate the Plan pursuant to its irrevocable action taken within the 30 days preceding or the 12 months following a Change in Control and in accordance with Code section 409A, and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix)(B), or its successor (in which event the benefit of each
Eligible Management Associate
 
who is also a participant in the Change In Control Plan will automatically vest as provided in Article IV, Paragraph 7); (ii) fund a grantor trust in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 11(b) of this Article VIII; or (iii) provide that each
Eligible Management Associates
 
benefit in the Plan will become 100% vested and nonforfeitable as of the date of the Change in Control.
(b)    
Grantor Trust
. To the extent permitted by Code section 409A and the regulations thereunder, the Board of Directors will have the discretion and the authority
 
 
to transfer assets of the Parent Company, in an amount sufficient to pay benefits that have accrued under the Plan up to the date of the Change in Control Event, to a grantor trust to be established by the Parent Company for the purpose of paying benefits hereunder; and the
Eligible Management Associates
 
vested benefits shall thereafter be paid to the
Eligible Management Associate
from such trust in accordance with the terms of the Plan. On each anniversary date the Change of Control, the Company shall transfer, to the extent permitted by Code section 409A and the regulations thereunder, to the grantor trust an amount necessary to pay all benefits accrued under the Plan during the preceding twelve months.
(c)   
Change in Control Event
.
For the purpose of determining whether a Change in Control has occurred with respect to a
Eligible Management Associate
, a Change in Control means a change in control within the meaning of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(5), or its successor, including a change in the ownership of the corporation , a change in the effective control of the corporation, or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the corporation. For this purpose, corporation has the meaning given in Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(ii), or its successor.
ARTICLE IX.   CLAIMS PROCEDURES
If an Associate does not receive the benefits which he believes he is entitled to receive under the Plan, he may file a claim for benefits with the claims administrator as so designated by the Plan Administrator. All claims will be made in writing no later than the time prescribed by Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(g), or its successor, and will be signed by the claimant. If the claimant does not furnish sufficient information to determine the validity of the claim, the claims administrator will indicate to the claimant any additional information which is required.
Each claim will be approved or disapproved by the claims administrator within 90 days following the receipt of the information necessary to process the claim. In the event the claim administrator denies a claim for benefits in whole or in part, the claims administrator will notify the claimant in writing of the denial of the claim. Such notice by the claims administrator will also set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, the specific reasons for such denial, the specific Plan provisions on which the denial is based, a description of any additional material or information necessary to perfect the claim with an explanation of the Plan's claim review procedure as set forth below.
A claimant may appeal a denial of his claim by requesting a review of the decision by the Benefits Administration Committee or a person designated by the Committee, which person will be a named fiduciary under Section 402(a) (2) of ERISA for purposes of this Article IX. An appeal must be submitted in writing within 60 days after the denial and must (i) request a review of the claim for benefits under the Plan; (ii) set forth all of the grounds upon which claimant's request for review is based and any facts in support thereof; and (iii) set forth any issues or comments which the claimant deems pertinent to the appeal.
The Benefits Administration Committee or the named fiduciary designated by the Benefits Administration Committee will make a full and fair review of each appeal and any written materials submitted in connection with the appeal. The Benefits Administration Committee or the named fiduciary designated by the Benefits Administration Committee will act upon each appeal within 60 days after receipt thereof unless special circumstances require an extension of the time for processing, in which case a decision will be rendered as soon as possible but not later than 120 days after the appeal is received. The claimant will be given the opportunity to review pertinent documents or materials upon submission of a written request to the Benefits Administration Committee or named fiduciary, provided the Benefits Administration Committee or named fiduciary finds the requested documents or materials are pertinent to the appeal. On the basis of its review, the Benefits Administration Committee or named fiduciary will make an independent determination of the claimant's eligibility for benefits under the Plan.
The decision of the Benefits Administration Committee or named fiduciary on any claim for benefits will be final and conclusive upon all parties thereto. In the event the Benefits Administration Committee or named fiduciary denies an appeal in whole or in part, it will give written notice of the decision to the claimant, which notice will set forth in
 
 
a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant the specific reasons for such denial and which will make specific reference to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision was based.
If the claimants claim or appeal is approved, any resulting payment of benefits will be made no later than the time prescribed for payment of benefits by Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(g), or its successor.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the Eligible Management Associate's total calendar years of earnings determined under clauses (i) and (ii) above exceed the number of full years of earnings that are to be averaged based on year of such Eligible Management Associate's birth, one or more of the Eligible Management Associate's lowest years of earnings will be disregarded until his total years of earnings equals the number of full years of earnings that are to be averaged based on the year of such Eligible Management Associate's birth.
(iv)    Social Security indexing factors used are those actually used by the Social Security Administration in determining the Eligible Management Associate's Social Security benefit, and, if those factors are not available, the latest published factors will be used.
For Eligible Management Associates who reach Traditional Retirement Age after August 1, 2000, for purposes of clause (iii) of Subparagraph (b) of Paragraph (1) of Article IV, Estimated Social Security Benefit shall be determined under (B) above.
EVA Performance Plan
:
The J. C. Penney Company, Inc. 1998 EVA Performance Plan, as amended from time to time.
Final Service
:
An Eligible Management Associate's years of Credited Service plus, if he becomes an Associate of a Controlled Group member that is not a Participating Employer, the years of Service with such Controlled Group Member that are credited to the Associate after he ceases earning Credited Service. Calendar years that include a period of Disability Service will not be included in the determination of Final Service. Calendar years of Service or of Credited Service that are interrupted by a Separation from Service or by one or more years in which the Eligible Management Associate did not receive Compensation for the entire year will be considered to be consecutive for purposes of determining consecutive years of Final Service.
Human Resources and Compensation Committee
:
The Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Parent Company.
Human Resources Committee
:
The Human Resources Committee of the Management Committee of the Company.
Interest Income Account(s)
:
The account(s) of that name and any successor account(s) and/or fund(s) established and maintained pursuant to the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan and/or the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan.
Matched Deposits
:
An Eligible Management Associates deposits, not in excess of 6% of his compensation (as defined in the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan, the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan and the Mirror
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Savings Plans), made pursuant to the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan, the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan, and the Mirror Savings Plans.
Mirror Savings Plans
:
Prior to January 27, 2002, the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Mirror Savings Plan I, the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Mirror Savings Plan II, and the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Mirror Savings Plan III, all as amended from time to time, and on and after January 27, 2002, the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Mirror Savings Plan I, the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Mirror Savings Plan II, and the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Mirror Savings Plan III, all as amended from time to time.
Parent Company:
J. C. Penney Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor corporation.
Participating Employer
:
The Company and any other Controlled Group Member or organizational unit of the Company or of a Controlled Group Member which is designated as a Participating Employer under the Plan by the Human Resources Committee; provided, however, that if such designation would substantially increase the cost of the Plan to the Company, such designation shall be subject to the sole discretion of the Board of Directors.
Penney Stock (Company) Account
:
The account(s) of that name and any successor account(s) and/or fund(s) established and maintained pursuant to the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan and/or the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan.
Pension Plan
:
Prior to January 27, 2002, the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Pension Plan, as amended from time to time, and on and after January 27, 2002, the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Pension Plan, as amended from time to time.
Pension Plan Participant
: An Associate or former Associate who is treated as a participant under the Pension Plan.
Performance Unit Plan
:
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. 1984 Performance Unit Plan, as amended from time to time, as in existence prior to February 1, 1998 when terminated effective January 31, 1998.
Plan
:
Prior to January 27, 2002, the Supplemental Retirement Program for Management Profit-Sharing Associates of J. C. Penney Company, Inc., as amended from time to time, and on and after January 27, 2002, the Supplemental Retirement Program for Management Profit-Sharing Associates of J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. as amended from time to time.
Profit Incentive Compensation
:
The share of store profits to which an Associate is entitled as a store manager or as a member of a store's management staff; the management incentive compensation to which a management Associate is entitled; the regional or district incentive compensation to which a regional or district office Associate is entitled; and, if so determined by the Human Resources Committee, any other compensation based on profits (excluding any Company contributions to and benefits under the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan and Savings, Profit-
 
 
 
 
 
Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan) to which an Associate of a Participating Employer, or, for the purpose of determining Average Final Compensation only, a Controlled Group Member who is not a Participating Employer, is entitled.
Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan
:
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan, as amended from time to time, as in existence prior to January 1, 1999 before being merged into the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan effective January 1, 1999.
Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan
:
Prior to January 27, 2002, the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan, as amended from time to time, and on and after January 27, 2002, the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan, as amended from time to time.
Separation from Service or
 
Separates from Service
:
Termination of Service after having attained age 55 by reason of disability, discharge, retirement (including resignation), or death. Termination of Service due to a disability is deemed to occur upon the later of termination of the Eligible Management Associate's sick pay or at the end of any leave of absence granted the Eligible Management Associate.
Service
:
The period of time credited to an Eligible Management Associate as service under the terms of the Pension Plan.
Spouse
:
The individual to whom an Eligible Management Associate is legally married under the laws of the State (within the meaning of section 3(10) of ERISA) in which the Eligible Management Associate is domiciled, or if domiciled outside the United States, under the laws of the State of Texas.
Tax Deferred Deposits
:
Deposits made under the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan and/or the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan which were subject to a cash or deferred election under Section 401(k) of the Code and designated as Tax Deferred Deposits pursuant to the terms of the Savings and Profit--Sharing Retirement Plan and/or the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan.
Taxed Deposits
:
An Eligible Management Associate's after-tax deposits made under the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan and/or the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan and designated as Taxed Deposits pursuant to the terms of the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan and/or the Savings, Profit--Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan.
Traditional Retirement Age
:
The date on which an Eligible Management Associate attains age 60.
Traditional Retirement Date
:
The first day of the month immediately following the date an Eligible Management Associate attains Traditional Retirement Age if such Eligible Management Associate Separates from Service on such date.
Valuation Date
:
With respect to the Company Accounts, excluding the Penney Stock (Company) Account, each day of the calendar year. With respect to the Penney Stock (Company) Account(s), each day of a calendar year on which the New York Stock Exchange is open. If the New York Stock Exchange is closed, the Penney Stock (Company) Account(s) will have the same value as of the last immediately preceding day the Exchange was open.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE III.   PARTICIPATION
Each Eligible Management Associate shall participate in the Plan as of such Eligible Management Associate's Early Retirement Date, Traditional Retirement Date, or Delayed Retirement Date, as the case may be; provided, however, that such Eligible Management Associate who has a Separation from Service in the month of December shall commence participation in the Plan as of the last day of that December. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, and except as otherwise provided in Paragraph (9) of Article IV, effective on and after January 1, 1996, any Associate who, on December 31, 1995, was not classified as management or who was not in a Profit Incentive Compensation program shall not be considered an Eligible Management Associate and shall not participate in the Plan. In addition, effective as of the Closing (as such term is defined in Paragraph (9) of Article IV), the Eligible Management Associates whose names are set forth on Appendix II to the Plan shall cease to participate in the Plan and shall not be entitled to a benefit under any provision of the Plan. In the event an Eligible Management Associate whose name is set forth on Appendix II is employed after the Closing by the Company or any Controlled Group Member, such person will not thereafter be an Eligible Management Associate and will not participate in the Plan on or after the date of such employment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE IV.   BENEFITS
(1) 
At Early, Traditional, or Delayed Retirement Date
:
The annual amount of benefit payable from the Plan in monthly installments to an Eligible Management Associate commencing on such Eligible Management Associate's Early Retirement Date, Traditional Retirement Date, or Delayed Retirement Date, as the case may be, and terminating with the installment payable on the first day of the month in which such Eligible Management Associate dies, shall be:
(a)
 
the sum of
(i)    3% of the Eligible Management Associate's Average Final Compensation multiplied by such Eligible Management Associate's Credited Service not in excess of 10 years;
less
(b)
 
the sum of
(i)    
the single-life, no-death-benefit annuity equivalent of (a) the annual amount of pension payable pursuant to the Pension Plan (disregarding Disability Service) assuming that the Eligible Management Associate's Benefit Commencement Date is the first day of the month immediately following the date of such Eligible Management Associate's Separation from Service, (b) the annual amount payable pursuant to the terms of a domestic relations order qualified under Code Section
 
414(p), (A) from the Pension Plan and (B) from benefits accrued pursuant to Paragraph (1) of Article IV of the Benefit Restoration Plan and (c) the accrued benefit payable pursuant to Paragraph (1) of Article IV of the Benefit Restoration Plan;
(ii)       the single-life, no-death-benefit annuity equivalent, as of the Valuation Date which is the next trading date of the New York Stock Exchange following the Eligible Management Associates Separation from Service, of
 
(a)    the value of all assets allocated to the Eligible Management Associate in the Company Account(s) under the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan, including such assets allocated to him under
 
 the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan prior to January 1, 1999; and
   
 
(b)    the value of any additional assets which would have been allocated to the Eligible Management Associates Company Account(s) under the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan, the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan, and the Mirror Savings Plans, had such Eligible Management Associate made all further permissible Matched Deposits up to 6% of his compensation (as such term is defined in each said plan) under each said plan and had he not made any withdrawals of taxed Matched Deposits from the plans prior to January 1, 1989; and
 
(c)    the value of dividends attributable to units in his Company Account (within the meaning of the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan) and distributed to the Eligible Management Associate pursuant to Section 9.04 of the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan; and
 
(d)       the value of any amounts payable pursuant to the terms of a domestic relations order qualified under Code Section 414(p) out of such Eligible Management Associates Company Account(s) from the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan and the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan; and
 
(e)       the value of benefits payable to the Eligible Management Associate (or another person on behalf of the Eligible Management Associate from (A) his annual benefit limit make-up account pursuant to paragraph (2) of Article IV of the Benefit Restoration Plan prior to January 1, 1999, and (B) his Company Accounts under the Mirror Savings Plans;
(iii)   50% (less 1/4 of 1% for each month by which the Eligible Management Associate's Early Retirement Date shall precede such Eligible Management Associate's Traditional Retirement Date) of the Eligible Management Associate's Estimated Social Security Benefit;
(iv)   in the case of an Eligible Management Associate whose Credited Service is increased pursuant to Paragraph (1) of Article VIII, the amount of annual retirement benefit (or any commutations thereof or substitutions therefor) payable to an Eligible Management Associate from any other employer, but only to the extent determined by the Benefits Administration Committee, expressed in the form of a single-life, no-death-benefit annuity equivalent (as determined by the Benefits Administration Committee), commencing on such Eligible Management Associate's Separation from Service.
 
In determining the amount referred to in clause (ii) of subparagraph (b) of this Paragraph (1) of this Article IV, it shall be deemed that:
(i)     an Eligible Management Associate who has not, at all times when he was eligible to participate in the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan and the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan and the Mirror Savings Plans, contributed an amount sufficient to share, to the maximum extent, in the Company contribution to such Plan or such predecessor plan has so contributed and that an Eligible Management Associate who did not share, to the maximum extent, in Company contributions for which he was eligible under the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan due to any withdrawal of taxed Matched Deposits, be deemed not to have any such withdrawal;
 
(ii)    the share of any such Company contribution deemed to have been credited to an Eligible Management Associate pursuant to this Paragraph for plan years ending before January 1, 1989 shall be deemed to have experienced the same rate of dividends, earnings, and change in value as the actual rate of dividends, earnings, and change in value experienced by the Penney Stock (Company) Account under the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan from the time such share of a Company contribution is deemed to have been credited for said plan years and that the value of this said amount as of December 31, 1988 under the Savings and Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan, plus the share of any such Company contribution deemed to have been credited to an Eligible Management Associate pursuant to this Paragraph for plan years beginning after December 31, 1988 shall be deemed to have experienced the same rate of earnings and change in value experienced by the Interest Income Account under the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan from the time such share of a Company contribution is deemed to have been credited for said plan years;
 
(iii)  
the value of the amount of the Company Account(s) and annual limit make-up account paid out pursuant to a domestic relations order qualified under Section 414(p) of the Code deemed to have been credited to an Eligible Management Associate pursuant to this Paragraph shall be deemed to have experienced the same rate of earnings and change in value experienced by the Interest Income Account under the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan from the time such amount is deemed to have been credited; and
 
(iv)   the rates used to determine the single-life, no-death-benefit annuity equivalent shall be the rates that the Benefits Administration Committee, in its discretion, shall determine.
 
(2)
Minimum Benefit
:
In no event will the amount payable to an Eligible Management Associate under Paragraph (1) of this Article IV at such Eligible Management Associate's Traditional Retirement Date or Delayed Retirement Date, as the case may be, be less than the difference between:
 
(A)   the amount of pension payable pursuant to the early retirement pension benefit provision of the Pension Plan (determined without regard to any
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
compensation or benefit limits imposed by the Code) that would be applicable if the Eligible Management Associate elected to receive benefits pursuant to that provision prior to such Eligible Management Associate's normal retirement date, as defined in the Pension Plan (disregarding Disability Service, if any, and including as Credited Service any increase granted under Article VIII hereof) assuming the Eligible Management Associate's Benefit Commencement Date is the first day of the month immediately following the day of such Eligible Management Associate's Separation from Service under this Plan, and
 
(B)   the amount of pension payable pursuant to the early retirement pension benefit provision of the Pension Plan (determined without regard to any compensation or benefit limits imposed by the Code) that would be applicable if the Eligible Management Associate did not elect to receive benefits pursuant to that provision prior to the Eligible Management Associate's normal retirement date, as defined in the Pension Plan (disregarding Disability Service, if any, and including as Credited Service any increase granted under Article VIII hereof).
 
In no event will the amount payable under Paragraph (1) of this Article IV to an Eligible Management Associate who:
 
(a)       Separates from Service on his Early Retirement Date within one year prior to his Traditional Retirement Date and who is granted additional Credited Service pursuant to Paragraph (1) of Article VIII at his Early Retirement Date, or
 
(b)      Separates from Service because of a reduction in force and is designated as an individual termination by the Director of Personnel in accordance with Paragraph (1) of Article VIII and who is granted deemed additional
 
months of Credited Service thereunder be less than the difference between
 
(A)
 
the amount of pension that would be payable (determined without regard to any compensation or benefit limits imposed by the Code) at such Eligible Management Associate's normal retirement date, as defined by the Pension Plan (disregarding Disability Service, if any, and including as Credited Service, as defined by the Pension Plan, any increase granted under Article VIII hereof), and
(B)
  
the amount of pension payable pursuant to the early retirement pension benefit provision of the Pension Plan (determined without regard to any compensation or benefit limits imposed by the Code) that would be applicable if the Eligible Management Associate elected to receive benefits pursuant to that provision prior to such Eligible Management Associate's normal retirement date, as defined by the Pension Plan (disregarding Disability Service, if any, and excluding as Credited Service any increase granted under Article VIII hereof) assuming the Eligible Management Associate's Benefit Commencement Date is the first day of the month
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
following such associate's Separation from Service, but in no event prior to the date such associate reaches age 59.
An Eligible Management Associate, who, on his Separation from Service, is entitled to disability benefits under the United States Social Security laws, shall not be eligible for any Social Security make-up benefits provided for in this paragraph.
(4)
Death Benefit
:
If an Eligible Management Associate has elected a form of payment with a guaranteed number of payments and the Eligible Management Associate dies before receiving all benefits payable under that option, remaining payments will be made to the person designated by the Eligible Management Associate as his beneficiary at the time the form of payment was selected.
If an Eligible Management Associate is married at the time such Eligible Management Associate Separates from Service by reason of death after attaining Early Retirement Age, or if an Eligible Management Associate who has Separated from Service after attaining Early Retirement Age and who is married at the time of his death, dies before payment has begun under the Plan, such Eligible Management Associate's Spouse will receive the benefit that would have been payable if the Eligible Management Associate had a Separation from Service immediately prior to such Eligible Management Associate's death (if he was an active Associate on the date of his death), and had begun to receive benefits immediately prior to his death in the form of a 100% (75% if death occurs prior to January 1, 1996) joint and survivor annuity without payment certain with the Spouse as the beneficiary.
(5)
Life Insurance Coverage
:
Commencing on an Eligible Management Associate's Traditional Retirement Date or Delayed Retirement Date, as the case may be, and ending on such Eligible Management Associate's attainment of age 70, the Company will continue to provide an Eligible Management Associate who has at least 10 years of uninterrupted employment with a Participating Employer with term life insurance coverage at Company expense on a decreasing coverage basis.
The amount of coverage to be provided into retirement shall be equal, at such Eligible Management Associate's Traditional Retirement Date, to 100% of the amount of coverage being provided to him at Company expense immediately prior to
 
 
 
 
 
 
the attainment of his Traditional Retirement Age reduced to 90%, 80%, 70%, 60%, 50%, 40%, 30%, 20%, and 10% of such amount of coverage on the first day of the month following his attainment of age 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, and 69, respectively.
The amount of coverage to be provided at a Delayed Retirement Date shall be the applicable percentage based upon the Eligible Management Associate's age on such Delayed Retirement Date multiplied by the amount of coverage being provided to him at Company expense immediately prior to his Delayed Retirement Date and decreasing thereafter as provided in the preceding sentence.
If, on the Eligible Management Associate's Traditional Retirement Date or Delayed Retirement Date, as the case may be, such Eligible Management Associate is already covered by term life insurance under the Company's term life insurance plan on account of the Eligible Management Associate's total disability, such Eligible Management Associate shall not be eligible for any term life insurance coverage provided for in this paragraph. Benefits payable under this Plan will be paid to the beneficiary designated by the Eligible Management Associate as soon as practicable after receipt of a properly submitted claim.
A Participant whose group term life insurance coverage under the Plan terminates because of his attainment of age 70 will have the right to convert his group term life insurance coverage to an individual policy to the extent, and only to the extent, permitted under the group policy applicable to the Participant. Any election to convert to individual coverage must be made within 31 days after the Participant's coverage under the Plan terminates and must be made in accordance with all requirements specified in such policy. The amount of coverage that may be converted shall be the amount in effect immediately before the Participant attained age 70.
(6)
Effect of Certain Payments made in December 1992
:
In the event the Company, in its discretion, made payments to a current or former Eligible Management Associate on or before December 31, 1992 under the Company's Profit Incentive Compensation program and under the Performance Unit Plan and such payments were attributable to the Company's fiscal year ending on January 30, 1993, this Paragraph shall apply. The effect of such payments on the benefits payable to such individual under the Pension Plan and under the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan shall be determined with respect to whether an increase or decrease in benefits resulted. Benefits payable under this Plan to such current or former Eligible Management Associate shall be adjusted (a) to offset any such increase in benefits and/or (b) to restore any such decrease in benefits so that no advantage or detriment, as the case may be, shall be experienced by any such current or former Eligible Management Associate with respect to total retirement benefits under the above-referenced Plans and this Plan.
(7)
Special Rules for VERP Plan Participants
:
The following special rules shall apply as applicable to an Eligible Management Associate who is a participant in the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Voluntary Early Retirement Plan ("VERP Plan") or who is eligible for benefits under Section 4.17(a) of the Pension Plan. Effective January 27, 2002, the name of the VERP Plan was changed to the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Voluntary Early Retirement Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) If the Eligible Management Associate has attained at least age 55 but not age 60 as of April 30, 1998 and has compensation as determined under Section 4.17(d) the Pension Plan for the 1997 calendar year in excess of $80,000 but not more than $87,000, he shall be entitled to receive a benefit in lieu of the Minimum Benefit described in Paragraph (2) of Article IV equal to (i) minus (ii) below:
 
(i)    The annual enhanced normal retirement benefit
that would have been payable to the Eligible Management Associate from the Pension Plan pursuant to Section 4.17(b) of the Pension Plan but for the restrictions and limitations of said Section 4.17(b), calculated as follows:
 
(A)
 
For purposes of determining the Eligible Management Associate's normal retirement benefit and supplemental retirement benefit that would have been payable under the Pension Plan pursuant to Sections 4.1(b) and 4.1(e), 4.2(b) and 4.2(e), 4.3(b) and 4.3(e), or Section 4.3A(b) and 4.3A(e), three additional years of Credited Service, up to a maximum of 35 such years, will be added to his Credited Service determined as if he had Separated from Service on December 31, 1997; and such retirement benefit will be unreduced for early commencement of benefits. In no event will more than 10 years of Credited Service be taken into account for purposes of determining his enhanced supplemental retirement benefit.
(B)
 
The Eligible Management Associate's minimum and protected retirement benefits determined under the Pension Plan pursuant to Sections 4.1(c), 4.2(c), 4.3(c), 4.3A(c), and 4.4; his supplemental retirement benefit calculated under Sections 4.1(e), 4.2(e), 4.3(e) or 4.3A(e), which is to be added to his minimum benefit; and his Recalculated Pension Benefit (as defined in the Pension Plan) under Section 4.15 will be calculated without regard to the provisions of this subparagraph (i), and the applicable early retirement factors set forth in Section 4.5 of the Pension Plan will be applied.
(C) The Participant's enhanced retirement benefit will be the greater of the benefit calculated under clause (A) or the benefit under clause (B).
 
(ii)    The annual enhanced normal retirement benefit actually payable to the Eligible Management Associate pursuant to Section 4.17(c) of the Pension Plan subject to the applicable early retirement factors set forth in Section 4.5 of the Pension Plan, calculated as follows:
 
(A)
 
For purposes of determining the Eligible Management Associate's normal retirement benefit and supplemental retirement benefit under the Pension Plan pursuant to Sections 4.1(b) and 4.1(e), 4.2(b) and 4.2(e), 4.3(b) and 4.3(e), or Section 4.3A(b) and 4.3A(e), three additional years of Credited Service, up to a maximum of 35 such years, will be added to his Credited Service determined as if the Participant had Separated from Service on December 31, 1997; five years will be added to his age as of April 30, 1998; and the applicable early retirement factors set forth in
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4.5 of the Pension Plan will be applied based on his enhanced age. In no event will more than 10 years of Credited Service be taken into account for purposes of determining his enhanced supplemental retirement benefit.
(B)
 
The Eligible Management Associate's minimum and protected retirement benefits determined under the Pension Plan pursuant to Sections 4.1(c), 4.2(c), 4.3(c), 4.3A(c), and 4.4; his supplemental retirement benefit calculated under Sections 4.1(e), 4.2(e), 4.3(e) or 4.3A(e), which is to be added to his minimum benefit; and his Recalculated Pension Benefit (as defined in the Pension Plan) under Section 4.15 will be calculated without regard to the provisions of this subparagraph (ii), and the applicable early retirement factors set forth in Section 4.5 of the Pension Plan will be applied.
(C)
 
The Participant's enhanced retirement benefit will be the greater of the benefit calculated under clause (A) or the benefit under clause (B).
(b)
 
If the Eligible Management Associate has attained at least age 60 but not age 65 as of April 30, 1998 and has compensation as determined under the Pension Plan for the 1997 calendar year of $87,000 or less, to avoid duplication of benefits otherwise payable from the Plan and the Pension Plan,
 
(i)  
the Minimum Benefit described in Paragraph (2) of Article IV shall be offset by the enhanced retirement benefit paid to such Eligible Management Associate pursuant to Section 4.17(b) of the Pension Plan calculated as described in paragraph (7)(a)(i)(A), (B) and (C) above, and
 
(ii)
if the monthly Social Security Make-up benefit described in Paragraph (3) of Article IV is payable to such Eligible Management Associate, the benefit shall be paid by the Plan only in the amount that exceeds the $1,000 per month social security supplement paid to such Eligible Management Associate pursuant to Section 4.17(f) of the Pension Plan.
 
(c) An Eligible Management Associate who as of his Separation from Service has attained at least age 60 but has not attained age 62 shall not receive the Social Security Make-up benefit described in paragraph (3) of Article IV of the Plan if he elected to receive the lump sum payment described in subparagraph (b) of Section 3.02 of the VERP Plan.
(d) Benefits payable from the Plan pursuant to this paragraph (7) shall be subject to the provisions of paragraph (2) of Article V regarding optional forms of benefit payments based on the ages of the Eligible Management Associate and his Spouse on December 1, 1997.
(e) An Eligible Management Associate shall be entitled to life insurance coverage under paragraph (5) of Article IV effective on the first day of the month following his Separation from Service by reason of retirement. The amount of such coverage shall be equal to 100% of the amount being provided to him at Company expense immediately
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
prior to his Separation from Service by reason of retirement. Said amount shall be reduced in accordance with paragraph (5) of Article IV starting with the first day of the month following his attainment of age 61.
(f) In the event an Eligible Management Associate is
reemployed by the Company or a Participating Employer and again participates in the Plan, benefits payable under the formula described in Paragraph (1) of Article IV, if any, shall be reduced by the benefits to which the Eligible Management Associate is entitled under the VERP Plan. Benefits payable under the Minimum Benefit described in Paragraph (2) of Article IV or the benefit described in subparagraph (a) above, whichever is applicable, if any, based on the Credited Service attributable to his
 
reemployment, shall be based on his actual age as of his retirement date subsequent to his reemployment date.
(g) [Deleted]
(h) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, an Eligible Management Associate (excluding Officers of the Company) who is entitled to receive a benefit under the Plan pursuant to the formula described in Paragraph (1) of Article IV and who retires as part of the Voluntary Early Retirement Program announced in 1997 shall receive the greater of:
(i)
 
The amount payable under the Plan pursuant to Paragraph (1) of Article IV as of his Early Retirement Date, Traditional Retirement Date, or Delayed Retirement Date, as the case may be (the Plan Benefit), or
 
(ii)  
The amount derived by subtracting the aggregate benefit payable to the Associate from the Pension Plan and, if applicable, the Benefit Restoration Plan from the benefit communicated to the Associate in the personalized VERP communication materials as the aggregate benefit earned as of January 1, 1998, from the Plan, the Pension Plan and, if applicable, the Benefit Restoration Plan.
 
(8)
Nonduplication of Benefits
:
 
The benefits payable to or on behalf of an Eligible Management Associate under the Plan shall not duplicate benefits payable from the Pension Plan, the VERP Plan, the Benefit Restoration Plan, the Mirror Savings Plans, or any separation pay program of the Company or a Participating Employer or a Controlled Group Member. To the extent that any benefits otherwise payable under the Plan are paid from one or more of the plans or programs described in the prior sentence, such benefits under the Plan shall be cancelled.
(9)
Benefits for Certain Former Financial Services Plan Participants
:
The provisions of this Paragraph (9) will become effective on the close of the transactions (Closing) contemplated by that certain Stock Purchase Agreement among Commonwealth General Corporation, J. C. Penney Company, Inc. and J. C. Penney Direct Marketing Services, Inc. dated as of March 7, 2001, provided that the Closing occurs on or before September 30, 2001.
The Plan hereby assumes the accrued retirement income benefit obligation under the Supplemental Retirement Program for Eligible Management Associates of
 
 
 
JCPenney Financial Services (the Financial Services Plan) for each former Associate who (i) retired or separated from service prior to the Closing with a right to a retirement income benefit under the Financial Services Plan and who had not begun to receive retirement income benefits from the Financial Services Plan as of the Closing and (ii) whose name is not set forth on Appendix I to the Financial Services Plan, which Appendix is reproduced and attached as Appendix III to the Plan. Each such former Associate will be entitled to a retirement income benefit under this Plan in the amount of such former Associates Financial Services Plan accrued retirement income benefit and payable in the same form and at the same time as such Financial Services Plan accrued retirement income benefit would have been paid. In addition, the Plan hereby assumes the obligation of the Financial Services Plan to make continued monthly retirement income benefit payments to each former Associate who retired prior to the Closing and had begun to receive retirement income benefits from the Financial Services Plan as of the Closing in the same amount, the same form and at the same time as such former Associates Financial Services Plan retirement income benefit was being paid.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE V.   FORM AND COMMENCEMENT OF BENEFIT PAYMENTS
(1)
Delayed Commencement of
 
Benefits
:
An Eligible Management Associate may elect that the commencement of his annual benefit payable under Paragraph (1) or (2) of Article IV be delayed to the first day of any month following his Early Retirement Date, Traditional Retirement Date, or Delayed Retirement Date, as the case may be (but not beyond the first day of the month in which he attains age 70). In such a case, the amount of annual benefit payable under Paragraph (1) or (2) of Article IV shall be increased by 1/2 of 1% for each month that the commencement of such benefits is delayed.
(2)
Optional Forms of Benefit Payment
:
Except as otherwise provided in this Plan and subject to such rules and regulations as the Benefits Administration Committee may establish from time to time with respect to time and manner of election, an Eligible Management Associate may elect, prior to the commencement of his annual benefit payable under Paragraph (1) or (2) of Article IV, to receive a benefit of equivalent actuarial value (applying factors utilized in the Pension Plan) to such benefit, which may be one of the forms of benefit options described in the Pension Plan. The Benefits Administration Committee has full authority to revise the forms of benefit options available under this Plan.
(3)
Small Annuities
:
If the total benefit payable to an Eligible Management Associate under Paragraph (1) or (2) of Article IV would not provide monthly payments exceeding $100, the benefit shall be converted into an actuarially equivalent lump sum payment (applying the actuarial factors utilized in the Pension Plan). If an Eligible Management Associate who has begun to receive payments under the Plan and who has elected a form of payment with a guaranteed number of payments dies, and if the monthly benefit that becomes payable to the beneficiaries of the Eligible Management Associate does not exceed $100 per beneficiary, the monthly benefit shall be converted into an actuarially equivalent lump sum payment (applying the actuarial factors utilized in the Pension Plan).
(4)
 
Installments
:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan to the contrary, a retired Participant who on a date to be determined by the Benefits Administration Committee is receiving benefits from the Plan, or is eligible to receive benefits from the Plan, may make a one-time irrevocable election that his remaining unpaid benefits from the Plan be paid as 5 equal annual installments. The election must be made during an election period and in a manner authorized by the Benefits Administration Committee or its delegate. The total of such payments shall be actuarially equivalent to his remaining unpaid benefits determined by applying the actuarial factors utilized in the Pension Plan for lump sum payments except that the interest rate shall be determined by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee. Payment dates shall be determined by the Benefits Administration Committee or its delegate.
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan to the contrary (except for small annuities payable under Paragraph (3) of Article V), an Eligible Management Associate
 
   who on a date to be determined by the Benefits Administration Committee has not had a Separation from Service may make an irrevocable election that his benefits from the Plan be paid as 5 equal annual installments. The election, which shall be made in a manner authorized by the Benefits
 
Administration Committee or its delegate, must be made prior to his Separation from Service. If an Eligible Management Associate makes an installment election, the first annual installment will be made as of the first day of the month immediately following the latest to occur of (i) the Eligible Management Associates Separation from Service, (ii) six full months following the date of the Eligible Management Associates election, if the election is made in a calendar year prior to the calendar year of his Separation from Service, or (iii) 12 full months following the date of his election, if the election is made in the calendar year of his Separation from Service. The total of such payments shall be actuarially equivalent to his benefits under Paragraph (1) or (2) and Paragraphs (3) and (9) of Article IV, whichever is applicable, determined by applying the actuarial factors utilized in the Pension Plan for lump sum payments except that the interest rate shall be determined by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee. Payment dates shall be determined by the Benefits Administration Committee or its delegate. Paragraph (1) of this Article V shall not apply to an election to receive 5 annual installments.
In the event of the death of the retired or active Eligible Management Associate after his election is made and before all installments have been paid, the remaining unpaid installments shall be paid to his beneficiary in accordance with the payment schedule of the Eligible Management Associate except that the first remaining installment shall be paid as soon as administratively feasible after satisfactory proof of death is received by the Benefits Administration Committee or its delegate, if later.
ARTICLE VI.   ADMINISTRATION
The Benefits Administration Committee will administer the Plan and will have the full authority and discretion to accomplish that purpose, including without limitation, the authority and discretion to:
 
(i)    
interpret the Plan and correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency or ambiguity in the Plan in the manner and to the extent that the Benefits Administration Committee deems desirable to carry on the purpose of the Plan;
 
(ii)     
resolve all questions relating to the eligibility of Associates to become Eligible Management Associates and the eligibility of Eligible Management Associates to participate in the Plan;
 
(iii)  
determine the amount of benefits payable to Eligible Management Associates and authorize and direct the Company with respect to the payment of benefits under the Plan;
 
(iv)  
make all other determinations and resolve all questions of fact necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan; and
 
(v)    
make, amend, and rescind such rules as it deems necessary for the proper administration of the Plan.
 
The Benefits Administration Committee will keep a written record of its action and proceedings regarding the Plan and all dates, records, and documents relating to its administration of the Plan.
Any action taken or determination made by the Benefits Administration Committee will be conclusive on all parties. No member of the Benefits Administration Committee will vote on any matter relating specifically to such member. In the event that a majority of the members of the Benefits Administration Committee will be specifically affected by any action proposed to be taken (as opposed to being affected in the same manner as each other Eligible Management Associate in the Plan), such action will be taken by the Human Resources Committee.
ARTICLE VII.   TYPE OF PLAN
The Plan is a plan which is unfunded. The Plan is maintained by the Company primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees. The Plan shall be construed according to the provisions of ERISA applicable to such plans. Benefits under the Plan (other than the life insurance benefits referred to in Paragraph (5) of Article IV which may be insured) are paid from the general assets of the Company.
In the event that it should subsequently be determined by statute or by regulation or ruling that the Plan is not a plan which is unfunded and is maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees" within the meaning of sections 201(2), 301(a)(3), 401(a)(1), and 4021(b)(6) of ERISA and section 2520.104-24 of Chapter 29 of the Code of Federal Regulations, participation in the Plan shall be restricted by the Benefits Administration Committee to the extent necessary to assure that it will be such a plan within the meaning of such sections.
ARTICLE VIII.  MISCELLANEOUS
(1)
Additional Credited Service and Other Adiustments
:
For all purposes of the Plan, the Credited Service of an Eligible Management Associate may be increased, and with respect to an Eligible Management Associate whose Early Retirement Date is within one year prior to his Traditional Retirement Date, (i) the percentage reduction on account of early retirement referred to in clause (iv) of Subparagraph (a) of Paragraph (1) of Article IV may be decreased or waived, and (ii) the entitlement to and the amount of benefits or coverage referred to in Paragraphs (2), (3), and (5) of Article IV may be accelerated or increased, as the case may be, in the discretion of:
(a)
 
in the case of an Eligible Management Associate other than members of the Companys executive or senior management committee (or a successor committee then in place) described in Subparagraphs (b) and (c) of this Paragraph (1), the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Human Resources Officer;
(b)
 
in the case of an Eligible Management Associate who is a member of the Companys executive or senior management committee but who is not a director of the Company, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee; and
(c)
 
in the case of the Chairman of the Board and an Eligible Management Associate who is a member of the Companys executive or senior management committee and who is also a director of the Company, the Board of Directors.
For all purposes of the Plan, the Benefits Administration
 
Committee in its discretion, may make adjustments in Compensation and Credited Service with respect to payments of severance pay, including, but not limited to, outplacement pay and critical pay.
An Eligible Management Associate who terminates employment due to a reduction in force, as defined below, and who does not satisfy the requirements for Traditional Retirement Age on the date of termination shall receive deemed additional months of age and/or Service, based on the following:
 
A reduction in force shall mean the termination of employment of an Eligible Management Associate because of:
(a)
 
A partial unit closing or complete unit closing ("unit closing") as determined by the Director of Personnel of the Company in his sole discretion, or
(b)
 
Other business reasons of the Company ("individual termination") as determined by the Director of Personnel of the Company in his sole discretion. With the approval of the Benefits Administration Committee of the Company, the Director of
 
Human Resources may increase such award by up to 24 deemed additional months of age and/or Service for an individual termination.
For the purposes of determining the benefit payable under Paragraph (1) of Article IV, such Eligible Management Associate is deemed to have attained Traditional Retirement Age. The deemed additional months of age and/or Service shall be added, but only to the extent necessary, to the Eligible Management Associate's age and/or Service, in such amounts necessary to satisfy the minimum requirements for Traditional Retirement Age or, with the approval of the Benefits Administration Committee, an Early Retirement Age on or after age 59.
The deemed additional months of Service shall count as Credited Service for the purpose of entitlement to benefits under this Plan only in the event of an individual termination as described in (b) of the preceding subparagraph, and shall not count as Credited Service in the event of a unit closing described in (a) of the preceding subparagraph.
For the purpose of determining life insurance coverage under paragraph (5) of Article IV, an Eligible Management Associate deemed to have attained Traditional Retirement Age in the event of a unit closing described in (a) of the preceding subparagraph shall be entitled to coverage effective on the first day of the month following his Separation from Service.
 
The amount of such coverage shall be equal to 100% of the amount being provided to him at Company expense immediately prior to his Separation from Service. Said amount shall be reduced in accordance with paragraph (5) of Article IV starting with the first day of the month following his attainment of age 61.
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, an Eligible Management Associate (excluding Officers of the Company) who is entitled to a benefit pursuant to the formula described in paragraph (1) of Article IV as of the Associates Early Retirement Date, Traditional Retirement Date or Delayed Retirement Date, as the case may be (formula benefit), (i) who received from the Company as part of the Companys offer in 1997 to participate in the Voluntary Early Retirement Program, a personalized statement showing the aggregate benefits earned as of January 1, 1998, from the Plan, the Pension Plan and, if applicable, the Benefit Restoration Plan, (earned benefit) and (ii) who retires from the Company prior to January 1, 1999, shall receive the greater of: (a) the formula benefit, or (b) an amount derived by subtracting the aggregate benefit payable to the Associate from the Pension Plan and, if applicable, the Benefit Restoration Plan from the earned benefit.
(2)
Amendment and Termination
:
The Human Resources and Compensation Committee may amend or modify the Plan at any time, without prior notice; provided, however, that any such amendment or modification which would substantially increase the cost of the Plan to the Company shall require approval of the Board of Directors of the Company. The Board of Directors of the Company may suspend, discontinue, or terminate the Plan at any time without prior notice or approval. In no event will any amendment, modification, suspension, discontinuance, or termination adversely affect existing life insurance coverage for retirees or the Plan benefit for any Eligible Management Associate for whom benefit payments have already begun in accordance
 
 
with the Plan as in effect prior to the effective date of the amendment, modification, suspension, discontinuance, or termination unless otherwise required to comply with applicable law.
If the Plan is terminated, any Eligible Management Associate who, as of the effective date of Plan termination, has reached Traditional Retirement Age but who has not reached age 65 shall be entitled to receive, at his actual Separation from Service, the benefits, if any, to which he would have been entitled under Paragraph (1) or (2) of Article IV had he Separated from Service on the day before the effective date of Plan termination, reduced by the percentage derived by dividing the number of months of Credited Service, if any, from the Plan termination effective date to the date of actual Separation from Service by the number of months of Credited Service from the Plan termination effective date to the date the Eligible Management Associate will have reached age 65. Any such Eligible Management Associate shall also be entitled to receive at his actual Separation from Service (other than by reason of death) a benefit, if any, to which he would have been entitled under Paragraph (3) of Article IV had the Plan not been terminated. If, after Plan termination, such Eligible Management Associate Separates from Service by reason of death, Paragraph (4) of Article IV shall apply, if appropriate.
If the Plan is terminated, any Eligible Management Associate who, as of the effective date of Plan termination, has reached his Early Retirement Date (assuming a Separation from Service on such date) shall be entitled to receive, at his actual Separation from Service, the benefits, if any, to which he would have been entitled under Paragraph (1) or (2) of Article IV calculated as if he had reached his Traditional Retirement Age and Separated from Service on the day before the effective date of Plan termination and disregarding the percentage reduction on account of early retirement referred to in clause (iv) of Subparagraph (a) of Paragraph (1) of Article IV, reduced by the percentage derived by dividing the number of months of Credited Service, if any, after his Traditional Retirement Date by 60. Any such Eligible Management Associate shall also be entitled to receive at his actual Separation from Service (other than by reason of death) a benefit, if any, to which he would have been entitled under Paragraph (3) of Article IV had the Plan not been terminated. If after Plan termination, such Eligible Management Associate Separates from Service by reason of death, Paragraph (4) of Article IV shall apply, if appropriate.
If the Plan is terminated, any Eligible management Associate who, as of the effective date of Plan termination (a) has reached age 50, (b) has 10 or more years of credited service, as defined by the Pension Plan, as an Eligible Management Associate, and (c) is not otherwise eligible for benefits under this Paragraph (2) of this Article VIII, shall be entitled to receive, at his actual Separation from Service but no earlier than his Traditional Retirement Date, a benefit equal to the difference between the amount of pension which would be payable pursuant to the early retirement pension benefit provision of the Pension Plan that would be applicable if the Eligible Management Associate elected to receive benefits pursuant to that provision prior to his normal retirement date, as defined in the Pension Plan (disregarding Disability Service, if any) and the amount of pension payable pursuant to the early retirement pension benefit provision of the Pension Plan that would be applicable if the Eligible Management Associate did not elect to receive benefits pursuant to that provision prior to his normal
 
 
retirement date, as defined in the Pension Plan (disregarding Disability Service, if any) reduced by the percentage derived by dividing the number of months of Credited Service, if any, after Traditional Retirement Date (assuming a separation from Service) by 60.
In no event will any future amendment or modification of the Plan adversely affect the right to Plan benefits which vest on Plan termination as set forth in this Paragraph (2) without the consent of at least 75 percent of the affected Eligible Management Associates unless such amendment or modification is specifically required to comply with applicable law.
Each amendment to the Plan by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee or the Board of Directors will be made only pursuant to unanimous written consent or by majority vote at a meeting. Upon such action by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee or the Board of
 
Directors, the Plan will be deemed amended as of the date specified as the effective date by such action or in the instrument of amendment. The effective date of any amendment may be before, on, or after the date of such action of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee or the Board of Directors.
(3)
Rights of
 
Associates
:
Except for the Associate's non-forfeitable interest as set forth in Paragraph (2) of this Article VIII, neither the establishment of the Plan nor any action thereafter taken by the Company or any Controlled Group Member or by the Benefits Administration Committee shall be construed as giving to any Associate any vested right to a benefit from the Plan or a right to be retained in employment or any specific position or level of employment with the Company, or any Controlled Group Member. Moreover, no Associate shall have any right or claim to any benefits under this Plan if the Associate is summarily discharged (including resignation in lieu thereof) unless the Benefits Administration Committee, in its discretion, determines that such Associate shall be eligible for such benefits notwithstanding such summary discharge.
(4)
Mistaken Information
:
If any information upon which an Eligible Management Associate's benefit under the Plan is calculated has been misstated by the Eligible Management Associate or is otherwise mistaken, such benefit shall not be invalidated (unless upon the basis of the correct information the Eligible Management Associate would not have been entitled to a benefit), but the amount of the benefit shall be adjusted to the proper amount determined on the basis of the correct information and any overpayments shall be charged against future payments to the Eligible Management Associate or his beneficiary.
(5)
Liability
:
Neither the Board of Directors (including any committees thereof) of the Company or of any Participating Employer nor any member of the Benefits Administration Committee or the Human Resources Committee nor any person to whom any of them may delegate any duty or power in connection with administering the Plan shall be personally liable for any action or failure to act with respect to the Plan.
(6)
Benefits for Reemployed Eligible Management Associates
:
If a retired Eligible Management Associate subsequently is reemployed by a Participating Employer, the payment of benefits hereunder shall continue. Any life insurance
coverage in effect pursuant to Paragraph (5) of Article IV shall cease effective on the date a rehired (whether or not participating in a Profit Incentive Compensation program) Associate becomes eligible for coverage under the Company's term life insurance plan. Upon such Associate's Separation from Service he shall be entitled to receive applicable benefits, if any, under Article IV pursuant to uniform rules approved by the Benefits Administration Committee.
(7)
Construction
:
In determining the meaning of any provision of the Plan, words imparting the masculine gender shall include the feminine and the singular shall include the plural, unless the context requires otherwise. Headings of paragraphs and Articles in the Plan are for convenience only and are not intended to modify or affect the meaning of the substantive provisions of the Plan.
(8)
Non-assignability of Benefits
:
The benefits payable hereunder or the right to receive future benefits under the Plan may not be anticipated, alienated, pledged, encumbered, or subjected to any charge or legal process, and if any attempt is made to do so, or a person eligible for any benefits becomes bankrupt, the interest under the Plan of the person affected may be terminated by the Benefits Administration Committee which, in its sole discretion, may cause the same to be held or applied for the benefit of one or more of the dependents of such person or make any other disposition of such benefits that it deems appropriate.
(9)
Governing Law
:
Except to the extent that the Plan may be subject to the provisions of ERISA, the Plan will be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Texas, without giving effect to the conflict of laws principles thereof. Except as otherwise required by ERISA, every right of action by an Associate, former Associate, or beneficiary with respect to the Plan shall be barred after the expiration of three years from the date of Separation of Service of the Eligible Management Associate or the date of receipt of the notice of denial of a claim for benefits, if earlier. In the event ERISA's limitations on legal actions do not apply, the laws of the State of Texas with respect to limitations of legal actions shall apply and the cause of action must be brought no later than four years after the date the action accrues.
(10)
Transferred Eligible Management Associates
:
In the event of the transfer of an Eligible Management Associate after December 31, 1995 from a Participating Employer to a "non- participating employer" as defined below, said Eligible Management Associate shall continue to be eligible to participate in this Plan in accordance with Article III.
In the event of the transfer of an Eligible Management Associate on or after March 8, 1995 but on or before December 31, 1995 to a non-participating employer, said Eligible Management Associate will continue to be eligible to participate in this Plan in accordance with Article III provided that on December 31, 1995 the Eligible Management Associate (a) is in the employ of the non- participating employer and (b) is not eligible to participate in the Supplemental Retirement Program for Eligible Management Associates of JCPenney Financial Services, or Supplemental Retirement Program for Management Profit-Sharing Associates of Thrift Drug, Inc.
The Service and Compensation of the Eligible Management Associate with the non-participating employer shall be recognized as attributable to a Participating Employer to the extent permitted by the Plan in determining benefits under the Plan. A non-participating employer shall mean a participating employer in the (a) Supplemental Retirement Program for Eligible Management Associates of JCPenney Financial Services, or (b) Supplemental Retirement Program for Management Profit--Sharing Associates of Thrift Drug, Inc.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Paragraph (10), an entity that ceases to be a member of the Controlled Group immediately after the Closing (as such term is defined in Paragraph (9) of Article IV) will not be a non-participating employer for any purpose of this Plan.
(11)
Change of Control
:
Solely for the purposes of this Paragraph (11), the term Eligible Management Associate shall include all active associates who upon their retirement would qualify as an Eligible Management Associate as of the date of a Change of Control (as hereinafter defined).
Upon a Change of Control, assets of the Parent Company in an amount sufficient to pay benefits that have accrued under the Plan up to that date shall immediately be transferred to a grantor trust to be established by the Parent Company for the purpose of paying benefits hereunder. Each Eligible Management Associates vested benefits shall thereafter be paid to him from such trust in accordance with the terms of the Plan; provided that at the time of such Change of Control, the Eligible Management Associate may make an irrevocable election to have his Plan benefits paid in a single-sum immediately upon the later of (i) the date of the Change of Control, or (ii) the Eligible Management Associates retirement date; in which event his benefits shall be reduced by 10% as a penalty for early payment. The amount transferred to the grantor trust shall include the amount necessary to pay benefits for Eligible Management Associates who have not yet retired, determined as if they retired on the date of the Change of Control. On each anniversary date of the date of a Change of Control, the Parent Company shall transfer to the grantor trust an amount necessary to pay all benefits that have accrued under the plan during the preceding twelve months.
For purposes of this paragraph (11), a Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred if the event set forth in any one of the following subparagraphs shall have occurred:
(a)
 
any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Parent Company (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Parent Company or its Affiliates) representing 50% or more of the combined voting power of the Parent Companys then outstanding securities; or
(b)
 
during any period of two consecutive calendar years, the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving as directors of the Parent Company: individuals, who on July 14, 1999 constitute the Board of Directors of the Parent Company and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with the settlement of
 
an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of the Parent Company) whose appointment or election by the Board of Directors of the Parent Company or nomination for election by the Parent Companys stockholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who either were directors on July 14, 1999 or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or
(c)
 
there is consummated a merger or consolidation of the Parent Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Parent Company with any other corporation or entity, other than (i) a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Parent Company outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any Parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Parent Company or any subsidiary of the Parent Company, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of the Parent Company, such surviving entity or any Parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected solely to implement a recapitalization of the Parent Company (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Parent Company (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Parent Company or its Affiliates) representing 50% or more of the combined voting power of the Parent Companys then outstanding securities; or
(d)
 
the stockholders of the Parent Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Parent Company, or there is consummated a sale or disposition by the Parent Company or any of its subsidiaries of any assets which individually or as part of a series of related transactions constitute all or substantially all of the Parent Companys consolidated assets, other than any such sale or disposition to an entity at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by stockholders of the Parent Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the voting securities of the Parent Company immediately prior to such sale or disposition; or
(e)
 
the execution of a binding agreement that if consummated would result in a Change of Control of a type specified in subparagraphs (a) or (c) above (an Acquisition Agreement) or of a binding agreement for the sale or disposition of assets that, if consummated, would result in a Change of Control of a type specified in subparagraph (d) above (an Asset Sale Agreement) or the adoption by the Board of Directors of the Parent Company of a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Parent Company that, if consummated, would result in a Change of Control of a type specified in subparagraph (d) above (a Plan of Liquidation), provided, however, that a Change of Control of the type specified in this subparagraph (e) shall not be deemed to exist or have occurred as a result of the execution of such Acquisition Agreement or Asset Sale Agreement, or the adoption of such a Plan of Liquidation, from and after the Abandonment Date. As used in this subparagraph (e), the term Abandonment Date shall mean the date on which (i) an Acquisition Agreement, Asset Sale Agreement or Plan of Liquidation is terminated (pursuant to its terms or otherwise) without having
 
 
been consummated, (ii) the parties to an Acquisition Agreement or Asset Sale Agreement abandon the transactions contemplated thereby, (iii) the Parent Company abandons a Plan of Liquidation, or (iv) a court or regulatory body having competent jurisdiction enjoins or issues a cease and desist or stop order with respect to or otherwise prevents the consummation of, or a regulatory body notifies the Parent Company that it will not approve an Acquisition Agreement, Asset Sale Agreement or Plan of Liquidation or the transactions contemplated thereby and such injunction, order or notice has become final and not subject to appeal; or
(f)
 
the Board adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Plan, a Change of Control has occurred.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change of Control shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of the common stock of the Parent Company immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity (i) which owns all or substantially all of the assets of the Parent Company immediately following such transaction or series of transactions, (ii) which is intended to reflect or track the value or performance of a particular division, business segment or subsidiary of the Parent Company, or (iii) which is an affiliated company, subsidiary, or spin-off entity owned by the stockholders of the Parent Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Parent Company on the date of such spin off.
As used in connection with the foregoing definition of Change of Control, Affiliate shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act; Beneficial Owner shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act; Exchange Act shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time; Parent shall mean any entity that becomes the Beneficial Owner of at least 50% of the voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the Parent Company or of an entity that survives any merger or consolidation of the Parent Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Parent Company; and Person shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) the Parent Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Parent Company or any of it Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation or entity owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Parent Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Parent Company.
(12)
Separation Allowance Program
:
If an Eligible Management Associate becomes entitled to Severance Pay under the J. C. Penney Corporation Inc. 1999 Separation Allowance Program for Profit-Sharing Management Associates ("SAP") or if this Plan is terminated within five years after a Change of Control (as defined in Paragraph (11) above) and, at that time, in either case, is age 45 or older with at least five years of Credited Service, he also shall become entitled to the same Plan benefits (as adjusted by this Paragraph (12) ) he would have become vested in under Article VIII, Paragraph (2) of this Plan as if this Plan had been terminated on the day before his
 
Employment Termination (within the meaning of the SAP). In calculating such Plan benefit, an Eligible Management Associate
(a)
 
shall receive credit for an additional five years of Credited Service (provided that total Credited Service under the Plan does not exceed 40 years) and
(b)
 
shall, if age 55 or less, be deemed to be five years older than his actual age, or if age 56 to 59 be deemed to be age 60, and
(c)
 
shall have his Severance Pay counted as Compensation under this Plan as if paid in monthly installments commencing with his Employment Termination (within the meaning of the SAP),
provided that, for purposes of clause (ii) of Subparagraph (b) of Paragraph (1) of Article IV of this Plan, the single life, no-death-benefit annuity equivalent shall not exceed the equivalent determined by ascribing to the Common Stock of the Company, as of the Valuation Date, a value equal to the average of the mean of the high and low sales prices (as reported in the composite transaction table covering transactions of New York Stock Exchange-listed securities) for each trading day in the two calendar quarters immediately preceding the calendar quarter in which a Change of Control (as defined in Paragraph (11) above) occurs, and the amount payable under this Plan at age 60 assuming such Eligible Management Associate remained in employment up to such age at a Compensation level equal to that of the calendar year immediately preceding his Employment Termination (within the meaning of the SAP).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE IX.   CLAIMS PROCEDURES
If an Associate does not receive the benefits which he believes he is entitled to receive under the Plan, he may file a claim for benefits with the Benefits Director. All claims will be made in writing and will be signed by the claimant. If the claimant does not furnish sufficient information to determine the validity of the claim, the Benefits Director will indicate to the claimant any additional information which is required.
Each claim will be approved or disapproved by the Benefits Director within 90 days following the receipt of the information necessary to process the claim. In the event the Benefits Director denies a claim for benefits in whole or in part, the Benefits Director will notify the claimant in writing of the denial of the claim. Such notice by the Benefits Director will also set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, the specific reasons for such denial, the specific Plan provisions on which the denial is based, a description of any additional material or information necessary to perfect the claim with an explanation of the Plan's claim review procedure as set forth below. If no action is taken by the Benefits Director on a claim within 90 days, the claim will be deemed to be denied for purposes of the review procedure.
A claimant may appeal a denial of his claim by requesting a review of the decision by the Benefits Administration Committee or a person designated by the Committee, which person will be a named fiduciary under Section 402(a) (2) of ERISA for purposes of this Article IX. An appeal must be submitted in writing within 60 days after the denial and must (i) request a review of the claim for benefits under the Plan; (ii) set forth all of the grounds upon which claimant's request for review is based and any facts in support thereof; and (iii) set forth any issues or comments which the claimant deems pertinent to the appeal.
The Benefits Administration Committee or the named fiduciary designated by the Benefits Administration Committee will make a full and fair review of each appeal and any written materials submitted in connection with the appeal. The Benefits Administration Committee or the named fiduciary designated by the Benefits Administration Committee will act upon each appeal within 60 days after receipt thereof unless special circumstances require an extension of the time for processing, in which case a decision will be rendered as soon as possible but not later than 120 days after the appeal is received. The claimant will be given the opportunity to review pertinent documents or materials upon submission of a written request to the Benefits Administration Committee or named fiduciary, provided the Benefits Administration Committee or named fiduciary finds the requested documents or materials are pertinent to the appeal. On the basis of its review, the Benefits Administration Committee or named fiduciary will make an independent determination of the claimant's eligibility for benefits under the Plan.
The decision of the Benefits Administration Committee or named fiduciary on any claim for benefits will be final and conclusive upon all parties thereto. In the event the Benefits Administration Committee or named fiduciary denies an appeal in whole or in part, it will give written notice of the decision to the claimant, which notice will set forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant the specific reasons for such
denial and which will make specific reference to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision was based.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WHEREAS the Committee deems it in the best interest of the Company and of J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc., that the Supplemental Retirement Program for Management Associates of J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. ("SRP") be amended to grant certain discretionary authority to the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer relating to reduction in force situations;
RESOLVED that Article VIII of the SRP be, and it hereby is, amended to (i) delete the third, fourth, and fifth paragraphs of Paragraph (1) (Additional Credited Service and Other Adjustments); (ii) to delete from the sixth paragraph of Paragraph (1) the phrase in the event of a unit closing described in (a) of the preceding subparagraph; and to add the following paragraph prior to the sixth paragraph of Paragraph (1) (as such sixth paragraph was in effect immediately prior to this amendment), effective as of August 1, 2005:
For purposes of a reduction in force, the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer, or his or her delegate, may in his/her discretion, make adjustments in Credited Service, Service and/or Age as he/she deems advisable, but in no event shall this discretion allow for an amount of the benefit to be less than the Eligible Management Associate would have otherwise received under Article IV.
and;
RESOLVED that the officers of the Company and its counsel be, and each of them hereby is, authorized to take all such further action, and to execute and deliver all such further instruments and documents, in the name and on behalf of the Company, and under its corporate seal or otherwise, and to pay all such expenses as shall in their judgment be necessary, proper, or advisable in order fully to carry out the intent and effectuate the purposes of the foregoing resolutions and each of them.
 
WHEREAS, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) amended the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to add section 409A governing the inclusion in gross income of deferred compensation under nonqualified deferred compensation plans, effective with respect to amounts deferred in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2004, and in taxable years beginning before January 1, 2005, if the plan under which the deferral is made is materially modified after October 3, 2004;
WHEREAS, section 409A is a significant departure from existing laws governing the timing of inclusion in gross income of amounts deferred under nonqualified deferred compensation plans and sets out broad requirements that nonqualified deferred compensation plans must meet in order to avoid the current inclusion in gross income of amounts deferred under such plans;
WHEREAS, the Act provides that the Secretary of the Treasury (the Secretary) will have the authority to prescribe such regulations as are necessary to carry out the purposes of section 409A and to provide exceptions to certain requirements of section 409A during the transition period for plans to come into compliance with section 409A;
WHEREAS, the Secretary to date has issued guidance related to certain requirements of section 409A and will be issuing further guidance in the form of final regulations;
WHEREAS, section 409A and the guidance define a nonqualified deferred compensation plan as a plan that provides for the deferral of compensation and provide that, with certain exceptions, a deferral of compensation occurs if the service provider has a legally binding right during a taxable year to compensation that has not been actually or constructively received and included in gross income and that, pursuant to the terms of the plan, is payable to the service provider in a later year;
WHEREAS, section 409A applies to a number of the Companys arrangements, including the Supplemental Retirement Program for Management Profit - Sharing Associates of J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc.; the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Benefit Restoration Plan; and the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Mirror Savings Plans I, II, and III (collectively, the Plans);
WHEREAS, compensation under the Plans that is subject to section 409A may not be distributed earlier than (1) separation from service, (2) disability, (3) death, (4) a specified time or pursuant to a fixed schedule, (5) a change in control event, or (6) the occurrence of an unforeseeable emergency;
WHEREAS, section 409A provides that distributions to officers having annual compensation greater than $130,000 (adjusted for inflation and limited to 50 employees) may not be made before the date which is six months after the date of separation from service (or, if earlier, the date of death of the employee);
WHEREAS, section 409A provides that the Plans may not permit the acceleration of the time or schedule of any payment under the Plans, except as provided in regulations by the Secretary;
WHEREAS, section 409A and the guidance require that compensation for services performed during a taxable year may be deferred at the participants election only if the election to defer is made no later than the close of the preceding taxable year, or at such other time as provided in Treasury regulations, or that the Plan may specify the time and form of payment no later than the time the service provider first has a legally binding right to the compensation;
WHEREAS, the requirements of section 409A related to subsequent changes in the time and form of payment provide that the Plans may allow a subsequent election to delay the timing or form of distributions only if (1) the plan requires that such election cannot be effective for at least 12 months after the date on which the election is made; (2) except in the case of elections relating to distributions on account of death, disability, or unforeseeable emergency, the plan requires that the payment with respect to which such election is made be deferred for a period of not less than 5 years from the date such payment would otherwise have been paid; and (3) the plan requires that an election related to a distribution to be made upon a specified time may not be made less than 12 months prior to the date of the first scheduled payment;
WHEREAS, the guidance issued by the Secretary provides that the Plans must be operated through December 31, 2006, in good faith compliance with the provisions of section 409A and the guidance and that the Plans must be amended to comply with the provisions and the regulations thereunder by December 31, 2006; and
WHEREAS, the Secretary has provided for certain relief measures the Plans can adopt during the transition period for coming into compliance with section 409A; and the Committee has determined that the Plans need to be amended to provide for the transition relief set forth in Questions and Answers 19(c) and 20 of Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1, as clarified and extended in the preamble to the proposed regulations issued on October 4, 2005 (the "Proposed Regulations").
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Supplemental Retirement Program for Management Profit-Sharing Associates of J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. be, and it hereby is, amended to add a new Article X at the end thereof to read as follows, effective as of January 1, 2005;
(1)
  
Priority over Other Provisions
: The provisions set forth in this Article will supersede any conflicting provisions of the Plan.
 
(2)
  
Termination of Participation
: Any amount subject to Code section 409A paid to an Eligible Management Associate during 2005 that would otherwise violate the requirements of Code section 409A(a)(2), (3), or (4) will be treated as a distribution in termination of the Eligible Management Associate's participation in the Plan within the meaning of IRS Notice 2005-1, Q&A-20. The amounts subject to termination will be includible in the Eligible Management Associate's income in calendar year 2005. This paragraph applies to (i) payments in 2005 to a specified employee, as that term is defined in Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i), within six months after the date of the Eligible Management Associate's separation from service, as that term is defined by the Secretary; (ii) payments in 2005 pursuant to an election under Paragraph (1) of Article V to delay the commencement of annual benefits; (iii) payments in 2005 pursuant to the election of the installment option under paragraph (4) of Article V; and (iv) any other payments in 2005 otherwise in violation of Code section 409A(a)(2), (3) or (4).
(3)
  
Change in Payment Elections or Conditions on or Before December 31, 2006
: With respect to amounts subject to Code section 409A, an Eligible Management Associate may make a new payment election on or before December 31, 2006, as permitted by the preamble to the Proposed Regulations; and the election will not be treated as a change in the timing and form of payment under Code section 409A(a)(4) or an acceleration of a payment under Code section 409A(a)(3); provided, however, that an Eligible Management Associate cannot in 2006 change a payment election with respect to payments that the Eligible Management Associate would otherwise receive in 2006, or cause payments to be made in 2006. Any election made by an Eligible Management Associate on or before December 31, 2006 (including an election made before January 1, 2005) that applies to an amount accrued under the Plan subject to Code section 409A will be treated as a new election under this paragraph unless an election in 2006 would apply to amounts that otherwise would be payable in 2006.
RESOLVED that the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Benefit Restoration Plan be, and it hereby is, amended to add a new Article X at the end thereof to read as follows, effective as of January 1, 2005:
(1)
  
Priority over Other Provisions
: The provisions set forth in this Article will supersede any conflicting provisions of the Plan.
(2)
  
Termination of Participation
: Any amount subject to Code section 409A paid to a Participant during 2005 that would otherwise violate the requirements of Code section 409A(a)(2), (3), or (4) will be treated as a distribution in termination of the Participants participation in the Plan within the meaning of IRS Notice 2005-1, Q&A-20. The amounts subject to termination will be includible in the Participants income in calendar year 2005. This paragraph applies to (i) payments in
 
 
2005 to a specified employee, as that term is defined in Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i), within six months after the date of the Participants separation from service, as that term is defined by the Secretary; (ii) payments in 2005 pursuant to the election of the installment option under paragraph (3) of Article V; and (iii) any other payments in 2005 otherwise in violation of Code section 409A(a)(2), (3), or (4).
(3)
  
Change in Payment Elections or Conditions on or Before December 31, 2006
: With respect to amounts subject to Code section 409A, a Participant may make a new payment election on or before December 31, 2006, as permitted by the preamble to the Proposed Regulations; and the election will not be treated as a change in the timing and form of payment under Code section 409A(a)(4) or an acceleration of a payment under Code section 409A(a)(3); provided, however, that a participant cannot in 2006 change payment elections with respect to payments that the Participant would otherwise receive in 2006, or cause payments to be made in 2006. Any election made by a Participant on or before December 31, 2006 (including an election made before January 1, 2005) that applies to an amount accrued under the Plan subject to Code section 409A will be treated as a new election under this paragraph unless an election in 2006 would apply to amounts that otherwise would be payable in 2006.
RESOLVED that, the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Mirror Savings Plans I, II, and III be, and they hereby are, amended to add a new Article Ten to read as follows, effective as of January 1, 2005:
The provisions set forth in this Article will supersede any conflicting provisions of the Plan.
10.02
 
Cancellation of Deferrals and Termination of Participation
 
Any amount subject to Code section 409A paid to a Participant during 2005 that would otherwise violate the requirements of Code section 409A(a)(2), (3), or (4) will be treated as a distribution in termination of the Participants participation in the Plan or a cancellation of the Participant's deferral election. The amounts subject to termination or cancellation will be includible in the Participants income in the calendar year 2005. This paragraph applies to (i) payments in 2005 to a specified employee, as that term is defined in Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i), within six months after the date of the Participants separation from service, as that term is defined by the Secretary; (ii) payments in 2005 pursuant to the election of an alternate form of payment under Section 7.04; and
 
 
 (iii) any other payments in 2005 otherwise in violation of Code section 409A(a)(2), (3), or (4).
With respect to amounts subject to Code section 409A, a Participant may make a new payment election on or before December 31, 2006, as permitted by the preamble to the Proposed Regulations; and the election will not be treated as a change in the timing and form of payment under Code section 409A(a)(4) or an acceleration of a payment under Code section 409A(a)(3); provided, however, that a participant cannot in 2006 change payment elections with respect to payments that the Participant would otherwise receive in 2006, or to cause payments to be made in 2006. Any election made by a Participant on or before December 31, 2006 (including an election made before January 1, 2005) that applies to an amount accrued under the Plan subject to Code section 409A will be treated as a new election under this paragraph unless an election in 2006 would apply to amounts that otherwise would be payable in 2006.
and;
RESOLVED that the officers of the Company and its counsel be, and each of them hereby is, authorized to take all such further action, and to execute and deliver all such further instruments and documents, in the name and on behalf of the Company, and under its corporate seal or otherwise, and to pay all such expenses as shall in their judgment be necessary, proper, or advisable in order fully to carry out the intent and effectuate the purposes of the foregoing resolutions and each of them.
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
1.     
Purposes of Plan.
The general purposes of this 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (Plan) are to provide associates and non-associate directors of J. C. Penney Company, Inc., its subsidiaries and affiliates, or any unit thereof (together referred to herein as Company), an opportunity to increase their proprietary interests as stockholders in order to motivate them to continue and increase their efforts on the Companys behalf to sustain its progress, growth, and profitability, and to assist the Company in continuing to attract and retain associates and non-associate directors capable of assuring the Companys future success. Terms and conditions of awards shall be governed by the terms of this Plan along with the Plan Determinations (Determinations) as approved by the Human Resource and Compensation Committee of the Company, and the Notice of Grant of the particular award. This Plan permits the grant of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and stock units, stock, and cash incentive awards, each as will be subject to such conditions based upon continued employment, passage of time or satisfaction of performance criteria as shall be specified pursuant to the Plan or set by the Committee (as defined in Section 5 below).
2.     
Shares Subject to Plan.
 
     
 
 
(a) 
Reserved Shares.
The maximum number of shares of J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Common Stock of 50 par value (Common Stock) upon which options to purchase shares of Common Stock (Stock Options), stock appreciation rights (SARs), or awards of Common Stock or share units (Stock Awards), (Stock Options, SARs, and Stock Awards herein collectively called Equity Awards), may be issued under the Plan is 14,400,000 shares, plus up to 2,800,000 shares which on May 31, 2005 are reserved but not then subject to awards under the Companys 2001 Equity Compensation Plan (referred to herein as the Prior Plan). In no event may more than: (i) 30% of the shares reserved for issuance under the Plan be issued as Stock Awards over the term of the Plan; (ii) 5,000,000 shares of Common Stock be issued pursuant to incentive stock options (ISOs) within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and any regulations promulgated thereunder, or any similar successor statute or regulation, as in effect from time to time (Code) over the term of the Plan; or (iii) 1,000,000 shares of Common Stock be issued as Stock Awards that are intended to qualify as performance-based compensation for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code in any one year for any one Associate Participant. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the number of Equity Awards, singly (as defined in Section 4 below) or in combination, granted to any associate or non-associate director in any two consecutive fiscal years shall not in the aggregate exceed 3,000,000.
     
 
 
(b) 
Share Accounting.
Common Stock issuable under the Plan may be, in whole or in part, as determined by the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Board of Directors (Board of Directors or Board), authorized but unissued shares, reacquired or treasury shares, or shares available from prior plans. If any Stock Option or SAR granted under the Plan (or any prior Plan) expires or terminates for any reason without having been exercised in full, or if any Stock Award is not earned in full, the unpurchased or unearned shares will again be available for use under the Plan. Also, the pool of shares available under the Plan will not be reduced if any Equity Award is paid in cash rather than shares of Common Stock. Common Stock includes any security issued in substitution, exchange, or in lieu thereof. Also, any option to purchase securities assumed in an acquisition of another company will not be included in the pool of shares available under the Plan.
3. 
 
Cash Incentive Awards.
The Committee may grant cash incentive awards (Cash Incentive Awards) to Associate Participants on such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine, but in all instances in compliance with Section 409A of the Code or any exemptions thereto. Cash Incentive Awards are performance-based (see Section 9 below), annual or long-term awards that are expressed in U.S. currency. Cash Incentive Awards to any individual associate may not exceed the
product of $1,500,000 and the number of years in the Performance Cycle (as defined in Section 9 below). (Equity Awards and Cash Incentive Awards are herein collectively referred to as Awards.)
4.     
Eligibility and Bases of Participation.
Under the Plan: (i) Awards may be made to such associates, including officers and associate directors of the Company, as the Committee (as hereinafter defined) may determine (Associate Participants); and (ii) Equity Awards will be made pursuant to Section 13 below, to individuals who serve as non-associate directors of the Company (Non-Associate Director Participants and,
together with Associate Participants, Participants). In determining the Associate Participants who are to receive Awards and the number of shares covered by any Award, the Committee may take into account the nature of the services rendered by the Associate Participants, their contributions to the Companys success, their position levels and salaries, and such other factors as the Committee, in its discretion, may deem relevant in light of the purposes of the Plan.
5.     
Administration of Plan.
The Plan will be administered by, or under the direction of, a committee (Committee) of the Board of Directors constituted in such a manner as to comply at all times with Rule 16b-3 or any successor rule (Rule 16b-3) promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as in effect from time to time (Exchange Act) and Section 162(m) of the Code. The Committee shall administer the Plan so as to comply at all times with the Exchange Act and the Code, and shall otherwise have plenary authority to interpret the Plan and to make all determinations specified in or permitted by the Plan or deemed necessary or desirable for its administration or for the conduct of the Committees business. All interpretations and determinations of the Committee may be made on an individual or group basis, and shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all interested parties. The Committee may delegate, to the fullest extent permitted by law, its responsibilities under the Plan to persons other than its members, subject to such terms and conditions as it may determine, other than: (i) the making of grants and awards under the Plan to individuals subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act; and (ii) regarding performance-based Awards intended to be qualified under Section 162(m) of the Code. With respect to Participants subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, transactions under the Plan are intended to comply with all applicable conditions of Rule 16b-3. To the extent any provision of the Plan or any action by the Committee or its delagatee fails to so comply, such provision or action will, without further action by any person, be deemed to be automatically amended to the extent necessary to effect compliance with Rule 16b-3, provided that if such provision or action cannot be amended to effect such compliance, such provision or action will be deemed null and void, to the extent permitted by law and deemed advisable by the relevant authority. Each Award to a Participant subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act under this Plan will be deemed issued subject to the foregoing qualification.
Further, except as otherwise specifically provided in the Notice of Grant, Awards under this Plan are intended to be exempt from Section 409A of the Code and the Plan shall be interpreted accordingly.
     
 
(a) 
Grants.
The Committee may grant Stock Options to Associate Participants on such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine. These Stock Options may be ISOs within the meaning of Section 422 or any successor provision of the Code, or non-qualified stock options within the meaning of the Code (NSOs), or a combination of both; provided, however, that an Associate Participant must be an associate of the Company or its subsidiaries in order to receive an ISO grant. In no event, however, may an Associate Participant be given an ISO grant which first becomes exercisable in any calendar year which, when added to all other ISO grants held by such Associate Participant that first become exercisable in that calendar year, causes the aggregate dollar amount of such ISO grants to exceed $100,000. The date of grant of each Stock Option will be the date specified by the Committee; provided, however, that such date of grant may not be prior to the date of such action by the Committee.
    
 
  (b) 
Payment Methods.
The option price (and, as provided in Section 15 of the Plan, any applicable taxes thereon) of the shares as to which a Stock Option is exercised will be paid in such manner as the Committee may determine in accordance with the Plans purposes, including: (i) in cash;
(ii) in shares of Common Stock that have been held for a period of at least six months and a day; or (iii) in any combination of (i) or (ii) above. Each Stock Option will have such terms and conditions for its exercise, including the manner and effective date of such exercise, as the Committee may determine, except as otherwise specifically provided herein. However, a Stock Option grant or its equivalent may not vest in whole in less than three years from the date of grant (although individual options may vest in equal annual installments over a period of not less than three years) except in certain limited situations such as for new hires, retirement and similar situations warranting a shorter or no vesting period, as may be determined by the Committee, and, if the grant is performance-based, the restriction must be for at least one year.
    
 
  (c)     
Option Price/Repricing.
The option price per share of Common Stock purchasable under a Stock Option will be determined by the Committee (or, for Associate Participants not subject to Section 16 of the
Exchange Act, its delagatee, pursuant to Section 5 above) at the time of grant; provided, however, no such price may be less than 100% of the fair market value of the shares of Common Stock covered by the grant on such date. Also, in no event may any Stock Option exercise price be reset from its original grant price.
    
 
 
"Fair market value of the Common Stock on any date will be the closing price on such date as reported in the composite transaction table covering transactions of New York Stock Exchange listed securities, or if such Exchange is closed, or if the Common Stock does not trade on such date, the closing price reported in the composite transaction table on the last trading date immediately preceding such date, or such other amount as the Committee may ascertain reasonably to represent such fair market value; provided however, that such determination shall be in accordance with the requirements of Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(b)(5)(iv), or its successor.
    
 
  (d) 
Exercise of Stock Options.
Each Stock Option will become exercisable upon such date as the Committee may determine, or as provided in Sections 10 or 11 of the Plan, and may be exercised thereafter at any time during its term, as to any or all full shares which have become purchasable under the provisions of the Stock Option. The term of each Stock Option may not exceed: (i) 10 years in the case of an ISO or such other term as may be required for the Stock Option to constitute an ISO under the Code; and (ii) in the case of a NSO, 10 years or such shorter period of time as determined by the Committee on the date of grant (exercise period), in each case measured from the date of its grant. Except as provided in Section 11 or 14 of the Plan, a Stock Option may be exercised only by the Associate Participant, and only if the Associate Participant is then an associate of the Company, or of a subsidiary or affiliate of the Company.
7.     
Stock Awards.
The Committee may grant a Stock Award (including any associated dividend equivalent right or share unit equal in value to such Stock Award) to Associate Participants on such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine. The Committee may determine the types of Stock Awards made, the number of shares, share units, or dividend equivalent rights covered by such awards, and any other terms and conditions relating to the Stock Awards as it deems appropriate, including any vesting conditions necessary to comply with the laws of the State of Delaware. However, a Stock Award or its equivalent that is restricted may not vest in whole in less than three years from the date of grant (although individual Stock Award shares may vest in equal annual installments over a period of not less than three years) except in certain limited situations such as for new hires, retirement and similar situations warranting a shorter or no vesting period, as may be determined by the Committee.
 
 
     Any dividend equivalent paid as part of a restricted stock unit award will be reinvested in additional restricted stock units that will accumulate over the vesting period of the underlying restricted stock units and vest, if ever, concurrently with the underlying restricted stock units. Subject to Section 22, payment of a restricted stock unit award and any dividend equivalents thereto will be made no later than 2  months following the end of the Companys fiscal year in which the restricted stock unit award vests.
8.     
Stock Appreciation Rights.
The Committee may grant SARs covering shares of Common Stock to Associate Participants on such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine. The Committee may cancel or place limits on the term of or amount payable by the Company upon exercise of any SAR at any time prior to exercise. SARs may be granted independently or in tandem with any
other Award under the Plan. Tandem SARs may be granted concurrently with or subsequent to the grant of the related Award. An SAR will entitle an Associate Participant to receive an amount no greater than the excess of the fair market value of a share of Common Stock on the date of exercise over the SAR exercise price, multiplied by the number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which the SAR will have been exercised. Such payment may be made by the Company only in shares of Common Stock. The SAR exercise price will be determined by the Committee at the time of grant; provided, however, that no such price may be less than 100% of the fair market value of the shares of Common Stock covered by the grant on such date. Upon exercise of a tandem SAR, in whole or in part, the related Award will be canceled or forfeited automatically to the extent of the number of shares covered by such exercise and, conversely, if a tandem Award is exercised, forfeited, or terminated, as the case may be, for any reason, in whole or in part, the related SAR will be canceled automatically to the extent of the number of shares covered by such exercise, forfeiture, or termination.
9.     
Performance-Based Awards.
Any Award granted pursuant to the Plan may be in the form of a performance-based award made through the application of Performance Goals and Performance Cycles, which are defined as follows:
    
(a) 
Performance Cycle
means the period selected by the Committee during which the performance of the Company or any Associate Participant is measured for the purpose of determining the extent to which an Award subject to Performance Goals has been earned. A Performance Cycle may not be less than one year.
     
 
(b) 
Performance Goals
means the objectives for the Company or any Associate Participant that may be established by the Committee for a Performance Cycle with respect to any Performance-Based Award contingently awarded under the Plan. The Performance Goals for Awards that are intended to constitute performance-based compensation within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code shall be based on one or more of the following criteria: earnings per share, total stockholder return, operating income, net income, cash flow, gross profit, gross profit return on investment, return on equity, return on capital, sales, revenue, gross margin, and gross margin return on investment.
     
 
 
(c) 
Vesting.
A Performance-Based Award, other than a restricted Equity Award, may not vest, or be deemed to be earned, in whole in less than three years from the date of grant (though portions of an individual award may vest or be deemed to be earned in equal annual installments over a period of not less than three years). A Performance-Based Award to be paid out as a restricted Equity Award may not have a vesting period of less than one year. Subject to Section 22, payment of any portion of a Cash Incentive Award and all earnings will be made no later than 2  months following the end of the Companys fiscal year.
10.     
Change in Control.
For purposes of this Section 10, all references to Company are to J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Upon a Change in Control of the Company, each Associate Participant will have the right to exercise any and all Stock Options and SARs held by the Associate Participant, and all Stock Awards will immediately vest, be deemed to have been earned and any Performance Goal for the then applicable Performance Cycle met, on such terms and conditions as may be determined by the Committee at the time of the grant or award provided, further, that any vested Stock Awards that are restricted stock units or vested Cash Incentive Awards, shall be distributed no later than the deadline for distribution specified in Sections 7 and 9 above. The Committee may exercise discretion to terminate the Plan upon a Change in Control event and distribute amounts within 12 months of the Change of Control event.
     
For purposes of the Plan, a Change in Control is defined by Section 409A of the Code, and any regulations and guidance promulgated under this Section as set forth in the Committees determinations for the applicable grants under the Plan.
11.     
Changes in Employment Status, Death.
In the event of an Associate Participants termination of employment, layoff, incapacity or death (regardless of whether the deceased was employed at death), the Committee may determine the terms and conditions applicable to any Award previously granted to the Associate Participant and not then exercised or earned in full, as the case may be, including, without limitation: (i) the duration of any exercise period following such event (which may not
exceed the original exercise period for a Stock Option or SAR, or if shorter, the tenth anniversary of the original date of grant); (ii) any necessary or appropriate authorization to the Associate Participants legatee, distributee, guardian, legal representative, or other third party, as the Committee may determine; or (iii) the circumstances under which all or part of such Stock Options and SARs may be terminated and any unearned Stock Awards forfeited or Cash Incentive Awards paid. All determinations by the Committee with respect to the foregoing shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all interested parties.
12.     
Right to Continued Employment.
Nothing in the Plan shall confer on an Associate Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates or affect in any way the right of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates to terminate such Associate Participants employment without prior notice at any time for any reason or for no reason.
13.     
Annual Awards
 
     
 
(a) 
General Provisions.
Subject to the terms and conditions of this section, each person who is serving as a non-associate director of the Company on the date of grant of an Equity Award (including any former Associate Participant) (Non-Associate Director Participant) will automatically be awarded an Annual Equity Award in an amount which the Board of Directors determines, based upon the advice of outside consultants, to be competitive by industry standards, and pursuant to such terms, conditions, and restrictions as determined by the Board of
Directors (the Annual Equity Award). These Annual Equity Awards will begin in 2006 (except for any
pro rata
award for a newly elected director which may occur at any time on or after the effective date of the Plan) and continue through May 31, 2010, unless earlier terminated by the Board of Directors. The date of each Annual Equity Award will be the third full trading date following the later of: (i) the date on which the Annual Meeting of the Companys stockholders, or any adjournment thereof, is held (Annual Meeting); or (ii) the date on which the Companys earnings for the fiscal quarter immediately preceding such Annual Meeting date are released to the public. Also, Equity Awards in a
pro rata
amount of the Annual Equity Award for that year, based on the date of election, will automatically be granted to each individual (other than a former Company Associate Participant) who is first elected a Non-Associate Director after May 31, 2005, on the third full trading date following the effective date of such election.
   (b) 
Right to Tender, Exchange.
A Non-Associate Director Participant (including for purposes of this paragraph a Non-Associate Director Participants guardian or legal representative) will have, with respect to any shares covered by an Annual Equity Award and any shares already received pursuant to an Annual Equity Award under this Plan, the right to: (i) tender or exchange any such shares in the event of any tender offer or exchange within the meaning of Section 14(d) of the Exchange Act or any plan of merger approved by the Board; and (ii) sell or exercise any option, right, warrant, or similar property derived from or attributable to such shares after such option, right, warrant, or similar property becomes transferable or exercisable. If any shares covered by an Annual Equity Award are tendered or exchanged or any option, right, warrant, or similar property attributable thereto is sold, exercised, or redeemed for value, the cash and/or property received will be delivered to the Company (or its successor) and held subject to the restrictions of the Plan as if it were the stock itself.
     
 
(c) 
Non-Transferability.
A Non-Associate Director Participant may not transfer, sell, assign, pledge, or otherwise encumber or dispose of any shares of Common Stock received in connection with an Annual Equity Award prior to the time his or her service as a director expires or is terminated, other
than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or by such other means as the Committee, in its discretion, may approve from time to time and any attempt to do so will be void.
     
(d) 
Non-Associate Director Participants Termination.
If a Non-Associate Director Participants service as a director of the Company terminates on account of any act of: (i) fraud or intentional misrepresentation; or (ii) embezzlement, misappropriation, or conversion of assets or opportunities of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, such termination will be considered a Non-Qualifying Termination. All other terminations, including termination by reason of death, will be considered Qualifying Terminations. In the event of a Non-Qualifying Termination, all outstanding restricted Awards made pursuant to this Section will be forfeited or canceled, as the case may be.
     
(e) 
Stock In Lieu of Cash.
A Non-Associate Director Participant may also elect to receive Common Stock in lieu of the cash compensation payable for services rendered as a director, so long as such election is made in accordance with Section 16 of the Exchange Act and on such other terms and conditions as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors. Any such Common Stock issued to a Non-Associate Director Participant in lieu of cash compensation will automatically vest (become non-forfeitable and freely transferable) in the Non-Associate Director Participant on the date of issuance.
14.     
Transferability.
No unearned Award, or any portion thereof, granted under the Plan may be assigned or transferred other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or by such other means as the Committee, in its discretion, may approve from time to time and any attempt to do so will be void. No Stock Option or SAR will be exercisable during the Associate Participants lifetime except by the Associate Participant or the Associate Participants guardian or legal representative, or other third party, as the Committee may determine.
15.     
Taxes.
The Company has the right to deduct from any cash payment made under the Plan, or otherwise, to any Associate Participant, including an Associate Participant subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, any federal, state, or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld by it (Withholding Obligation) with respect to such payment. The Withholding Obligation will be limited to the minimum statutory rate. The Companys obligation to deliver shares of Common Stock pursuant to any Award under the Plan is conditioned on the payment by the Associate Participant to the Company of any Withholding Obligation arising therefrom. The Company may withhold, in satisfaction of all or a portion of such Withholding Obligation referred to in the preceding sentence, that
number of shares of Common Stock having an aggregate fair market value sufficient to satisfy the amount of such obligation.
16.    
Changes in Capitalization and Similar Changes.
In the event of any change in the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding, or the assumption and conversion of outstanding Awards, by reason of a stock dividend, stock split, acquisition, recapitalization, reclassification, merger, consolidation, combination or exchange of shares, spin-off, distribution to holders of Common Stock (other than normal cash dividends), an equitable and proportionate adjustment shall be made to: (1) the option price under each unexercised Stock Option; (2) the exercise price under each unexercised SAR; and (3) the number and class of shares which may be issued on exercise of Stock Options and SARs granted and for Stock Awards, including restricted stock units, and any remaining shares reserved under the Plan. Any such adjustment with respect to each Stock Option or SAR shall be consistent with the requirements applicable to exempt stock rights under Treasury Regulations section 1.409A-1(b)(5) or its successor. Any adjustment with respect to ISOs shall also conform to the requirements of Section 422 of the Code.
17.     
Stockholder Rights.
A Participant (including for purposes of this Section, a Participants legatee, distributee, guardian, legal representative, or other third party, as the Committee may determine) will have no stockholder rights with respect to any shares subject to an Award until such shares are issued to such Participant. Shares will be deemed issued on the date on which they are
registered in the Participants (as this term is defined in the preceding sentence) name on the Company stock records.
18.     
Effective Date.
The Plan will become effective on June 1, 2005, subject to approval by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding stock of the Company having general voting power at the Companys 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
19.     
Termination and Amendment.
No Award may be made under the Plan after May 31, 2010. The Board of Directors may terminate the Plan or make such amendments as it deems advisable, including, but not limited to, any amendments to conform to or reflect any change in any law, regulation, or ruling applicable to an Award or the Plan, provided, however, that the Board of Directors may not, without approval by affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding stock of the Company having general voting power: (i) take any action which will increase the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued under the Plan (except for adjustments pursuant to Sections 2 and 16 of the Plan); (ii) decrease the grant or exercise price of any Award to less than fair market value of its underlying Common Stock on the date of grant; (iii) change the individual award limits found in Sections 2 and 3 or any other maximum limit included in the Plan to comply with requirements for performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code; (iv) change the separate limit for ISOs set forth in Section 2; (v) change the class of Associate Participants eligible for Awards under Section 4; or (vi) change the performance criteria applicable to Performance-Based Awards under Section 9. Except as otherwise provided in or permitted by the Plan or by the terms, if any, of an Award under the Plan, no termination or amendment of the Plan or change in the terms of an outstanding Award may adversely affect the rights of the holder of any Award without the consent of the holder.
20.     
Severability of Provisions.
If any provision of this Plan becomes or is deemed invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, or if any such provision would, in the sole determination of the Committee, disqualify the Plan or any Award under any law deemed applicable by the Committee, such provision will be construed or deemed amended to conform to applicable law or if, in the sole determination of the Committee, such provision cannot be so construed or so deemed amended without materially altering the intent of the Plan, such provision will be stricken and the remainder of the Plan will remain in full force and effect.
21.     
Governing Law.
This Plan will be governed by the internal laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of the dictates of Delaware conflict of laws provisions.
22.
 
Deferred Payments
.
Unless specifically provided for in the Notice of Grant, no Equity Award shall provide any feature for the deferral of compensation as defined by Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(b). ).
Any deferral will be for such period and in accordance with the terms and conditions as the Committee may determine and must be in compliance with Code Section 409A. The terms and conditions applicable to such deferral and the terms and conditions evidencing compliance with Code Section 409A shall be set forth in the Notice of Grant. The method of payment for, and type and character of, any Award may not be altered by any deferral permitted under this Section unless specifically permitted under Code Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.

Exhibit 10.4
J. C. Penney Company, Inc.
Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors
As amended and restated effective December 31, 2007
The purpose of the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors ("Plan") is to provide a procedure whereby a member of the Board of Directors of J. C. Penney Company, Inc. ("Company") who is not an associate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries ("Director") may defer the payment of all or a specified portion of the compensation payable to the Director for services as a Director, including the annual retainer, meeting fees, and fees payable to a Director for services above and beyond those services in connection with his or her Board and committee responsibilities ("Fees"). Deferred Fees will be subject to Social Security Self-Employment tax in the year the Fees are paid irrespective of when such Fees are earned.
A Director who elects to defer the payment of Fees will be eligible to make a deductible Keogh Plan contribution with respect to such Fees in the year such Fees are actually paid to the Director.
The Plan shall be administered by a committee ("Committee") consisting of one or more persons appointed from time to time by the Board of Directors out of those members of the Board of Directors who have never been participants under the Plan. The Committee shall have plenary authority in its discretion, but subject to the express provisions of the Plan, to interpret the Plan, to prescribe, amend, and rescind rules and regulations relating to it, and to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. The determinations of the Committee on the foregoing matters shall be conclusive and binding on all interested parties.
 
3.1  A Director may elect annually to defer payment of all or a specified portion of any unearned Fees. This election to defer must be made by December 31 of the calendar year prior to the calendar year that the election becomes effective for the Fees earned in such calendar year, and the election shall become irrevocable on December 31 of the year in which the election is made. Such election shall be effective January 1 of the calendar year following the calendar year of election. For purposes of Section 3.1 and 3.2, Fees will be treated as earned in the period during which the services giving rise to such Fees are performed.
   
 
3.2  A newly eligible Director may make an election to defer payment of all or a specified portion of any unearned Fees for the current year of appointment if the election is made within 30 days of the effective date of election to the Board. A Director will not be treated as newly eligible if the Director is otherwise eligible to participate in an agreement, method,
   
 
1
 
JCPenney Board of Directors Compensation and Benefit Programs
program, or other arrangement that would be aggregated with this Plan under section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Code) or Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(c)(2), or its successor. A Director who has terminated board service and is subsequently re-elected to the Board will be deemed to be newly eligible to the extent permitted under Code section 409A or Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-2(a)(7), or its successor. If the election to defer is not made within 30 days, or the Director is not otherwise newly eligible, the Director will be allowed to make an election for the deferral of unearned Fees for the following year in accordance with Section 3.1 above.
 
3.3  A Directors election to defer will remain in effect from year to year until he or she files a new election in accordance with Section 3.1 or gives notice to terminate such election. In order for a termination of an election to become effective for a calendar year, the notice to terminate the election must be received prior to the election becoming irrevocable on the preceding December 31. An election to defer cannot be terminated once the election becomes effective for the calendar year, except due to an unforeseeable emergency as defined in Section 6.2.
   
 
4.1 There shall be established for each Director participating in the Plan an account on the books of the Company, to be designated as such Director's deferred compensation account ("Account"). Unless and until a Change of Control (as defined hereinafter) shall be deemed to have occurred, all amounts deferred pursuant to the Plan, together with any further amounts accrued thereon, as hereinafter provided, shall be held in the general funds of the Company and shall be credited to the Director's Account. The Company shall furnish quarterly or upon request to each participating Director a statement of such Director's Account.
   
4.2  Change in Control.
   
(a) In the event a Change in Control (as defined in Section 4.2(c) below) shall be deemed to have occurred, the Company's liability for benefits under the Plan shall be funded under an irrevocable trust, to the extent permitted under Code section 409A, and as described in Section 4.2(b) below, which shall be subject to the claims of the Company's general creditors so that Eligible Directors will not be currently taxed upon the funding of such benefits.
(b) . To the extent permitted by Code section 409A and the regulations thereunder, the Board of Directors will have the authority to transfer assets of the Company, or its affiliates or subsidiaries in an amount sufficient to pay benefits that have accrued under the Plan up to the date of a Change in Control, as described in Section 4.2(c), to a grantor trust to be established by the Company for the purpose of paying benefits hereunder; and the Directors Account shall thereafter be paid to the Director from such trust in accordance with the terms of the Plan. On each anniversary date of the date of the Change of Control, to the extent permitted by Code section 409A and the regulations thereunder, the Company shall transfer to the grantor trust an amount necessary to pay all benefits accrued under the Plan during the preceding twelve months.
Grantor Trust
 
(c)  For the purpose of determining whether a Change in Control has occurred with respect to the Plan, a Change in Control means a Change in Control within the meaning of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(5), or its successor, including a change in the ownership of the corporation, a change in the effective control of the corporation, or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the corporation as such terms are defined in Treasury Regulation sections 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v), (vi)
Change in Control Event
.
2
 
JCPenney Board of Directors Compensation and Benefit Programs
4.4  Effective with respect to calendar quarters ending after December 31, 1988, a Director may elect that all but not a part of the balance in his or her Account be determined by reference to one of the following factors ("Factors"):
and (vii). For this purpose, corporation has the meaning given in Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(ii), or its successor.
4.3  If a Director should make the one-time election under the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Retirement Plan for Non-Associate Directors to cease participation in that plan and to transfer his or her accrued benefit under that plan to this Plan, the amount so transferred, together with any further amounts accrued thereon (Retirement Transfer), shall be a part of the Directors Account. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Retirement Transfers to this Plan shall be made after 1997.
   
 
   
(a)  the addition of interest, to be accrued during each such quarter and to be credited to such Account on the first business day following the end of such quarter on the basis of the average balance in such Account during such quarter, at a rate equal, also at such Director's election, to either;
(1)  the average annual rate payable for one-year United States Treasury Notes issued during such quarter, or
(2) the annual rate in effect for such quarter under the Interest income Account of the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Savings, Profit-Sharing, and Stock Ownership Plan; or
 
(b)  a number of units ("Units"), to be determined and valued in accordance with the fair market value of shares of the Company's Common Stock of 50 par value ("Common Stock"), the method of such determination and valuation being set forth in Attachment A to the Plan.
4.5 The Director's election as to the Factor to be referenced to determine the balance in his or her Account and any change in such election, shall be effective on the first day of the calendar quarter following receipt by the Secretary of the Company, or his or her designee, of written notice thereof; provided, however, that in the absence of any such election, the Factor for a Director's Account shall be deemed to be the Savings Plan Interest Income Account described in Section 4.4(a)(2).
   
5.     Payment from Directors' Accounts
5.1  For amounts commencing distribution on or after January 1, 2008, a Director may receive payment from his or her Directors Account due to separation from service on the Board, death, unforeseeable emergency, or disability. The Directors Account will be paid in a single lump sum on the first day of the month following the earlier of: (a) a separation from service within the meaning of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(h), or its successor, from the Board; or (b) death; or (c); unforeseeable emergency within the meaning of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(3), or its successor, or (d) disability within the meaning of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(i)4), or its successor. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event the Account of a Director who should become a specified employee (as defined below) becomes payable due to the Directors separation from service (as defined above) for reasons other than
   
 
3
 
JCPenney Board of Directors Compensation and Benefit Programs
due to the Directors death or disability (as defined above), payment of the Directors Account shall be made the first day of the 7 month following the month in
th
which occurs the Directors separation from service. A specified employee shall have the meaning within Code section 409A and as determined in accordance with the rules of the Board of Directors in resolutions dated December 12, 2007.
 
5.2  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an election to defer is made on or after September 25, 1984 and on or before December 31, 2004, and the distribution of the balance of these accounts began before January 1, 2008 and will not be completely distributed as of January 1, 2008, payment of the balance in a Director's Account shall be made in 10 annual installments. Any installment payments owed to a Director, as of January 1, 2008, shall be paid on the first business day of 2008 (or as soon as practicable thereafter, but no later than the time required for payment under Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(d), or its successor) and of each succeeding
   
calendar year until the entire remaining balance in a Director's Account shall have been paid. During any period in which a balance remains in a Director's Account, such remaining balance shall continue to be determined by the Factor which is then in effect for such Director until further changed by such Director. When a Director is to receive the balance of his or her Account in annual installments, each such annual installment shall be a fraction of the balance in such Account on the date such annual installment is to be paid, the numerator of which is one and the denominator of which is the total number of installments then remaining to be paid as of January 1, 2008.
 
5.3  A director shall not have the right to elect a subsequent deferral of payment to a date beyond the payment event. Any payments from a Director's Account shall be made in cash, and in no event shall shares of Company Stock be issued to a Director, even if such Director shall have elected to have the value of his or her Account determined by reference to the Unit Factor.
   
5.4  Except as provided in Code section 409A, Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4) or its successor, this Section, and Section 5.5, neither the Director nor the Company can accelerate the time or schedule of any payment or amount scheduled to be paid pursuant to the terms of the Plan. The Committee will have the discretion to accelerate payments in accordance with the provisions of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4), or its successor (provided that only the Board of Directors of the Company will have the discretion to accelerate payments in accordance with the provisions of Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix) or its successor). 
   
5.5  If a Directors Account when combined with the Directors interest in any other agreements, methods, programs, or other arrangements with respect to which deferrals of compensation are treated as having been deferred under a single nonqualified deferred compensation plan under Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(c)(2), or its successor, is equal to or less than the applicable dollar amount under Code section 402(g)(1)(B), in effect for the year of distribution, the Committee will distribute the benefit in the form of an immediate lump sum payment, provided that the payment results in the termination and liquidation of the entirety of the Directors interest under this Plan and all other agreements, methods, programs, or other arrangements aggregated with this Plan and is in accordance with Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(v), or its successor.
   
4
 
JCPenney Board of Directors Compensation and Benefit Programs
6.       Payment in Event of Death, Unforeseeable Emergency, or Disability
6.1  If a Director should die before the balance in his or her Account shall have been paid in full, the balance of the Directors Account then remaining shall be paid in a single lump sum to his or her designated beneficiary or beneficiaries following the Directors date of death, or, if later, as soon as administratively feasible after satisfactory proof of death is received by the Secretary of the Company, but in all event within the time required by Code section 409A. A Director may designate one or more beneficiaries (which may be an entity other than a natural person) to receive any payments to be made upon the Director's death. At any time, and from time to time, any such designation may be changed or canceled by the Director without notice to or the consent of any beneficiary. Any such designation, change, or cancellation shall be effective upon receipt by the Secretary of the Company of written notice thereof. If a Director designates more than one beneficiary, any payments to such beneficiaries shall be made in equal shares unless the Director has designated otherwise. If no beneficiary has been named by the Director, or if the designated beneficiary or beneficiaries shall have predeceased him or her, or shall no longer exist, the balance shall be paid to the Director's estate.
   
6.2  A Director may request a single-sum distribution to satisfy a severe financial hardship resulting from an unforeseeable event or emergency beyond his control. The distribution shall be limited to the amount necessary to satisfy the severe financial hardship (including any applicable federal, state or local taxes attributable to such distribution), and shall not exceed the current value of the Directors Account. An unforeseeable event or emergency shall have the meaning as is defined within Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(3), or its successor. The determination of the existence of a severe financial hardship and the approval of an unforeseeable emergency distribution shall be made by the Committee. Approval shall be given only if, taking into account all of the facts and circumstances, continued deferral of benefits or adherence to the Plan's payment schedule would result in a severe financial hardship to the Participant or Beneficiary. Approval shall not be granted if such hardship is or may be relieved through insurance, by liquidation of his or her assets (to the extent such liquidation would not itself cause severe financial hardship), or by terminating his or her election to defer. The amount of payment permitted hereunder shall in no event exceed the amount permitted under Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(3)(ii), or its successor.
   
6.3  Upon a Directors disability, the Committee shall direct the Company to pay in a lump sum to a Director the balance of the Directors Account. Disability shall have the meaning as that term is defined within Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(4), or its successor. The determination of the existence of a disability shall be made by the Committee.
   
7.      Termination of Election to Defer
A Director may on an annual basis terminate his or her election to defer payment of Fees only if the election has not become irrevocable and effective (except in the event of an unforeseeable emergency). Such termination shall become effective on the following January 1 following any year after receipt of written notice of such election to terminate deferrals by the Secretary of the Company, or his or her designee; provided, however, that any balance
5
 
JCPenney Board of Directors Compensation and Benefit Programs
 in the Account of a Director prior to the effective date of termination of an election to defer shall not be affected thereby and shall be paid only in accordance with Sections 5 and 6. A Director who has filed a termination of election to defer or whose election to defer has been terminated in accordance with Section 6 may thereafter again file an election to defer in accordance with Section 3.
 
8.      Nonassignability
During a Director's lifetime, the right to the balance in his or her Account shall not be transferable or assignable. Nothing contained in the Plan shall create, or be deemed to create, a trust, actual or constructive, for the benefit of a Director or his or her beneficiary, or shall give, or be deemed to give, to any Director or his or her beneficiary any interest in any specific assets of the Company.
9.     Amendment
The Board of Directors of the Company may, at any time, without the consent of the participants, amend, suspend, or terminate the Plan. Subject to the terms of this Plan, including Section 5.4, and any applicable laws and regulations, no amendment, suspension, or termination of the Plan shall operate to annul an election already in effect for the then current calendar year or for any preceding calendar year and Fees shall continue to be deferred until the end of such current calendar year in accordance with a Director's then current election; and the balance in the Director's Account shall continue to be payable in accordance with a Director's then current election and, until paid, to be measured by a factor to be determined from time to time by the Committee.
10.      Governing Law
The Plan shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of New York, and all the provisions thereof shall be administered according to the laws of said State.
11.      Severability of Provisions
If any of the provisions of the Plan or the application thereof to any Director shall be held invalid, neither the remainder of the Plan nor its application to any other Director shall be affected thereby.
12.      Effective Date
The amended and restated Plan shall become effective at 11:59 p.m. on December 31, 2007. This Plan was originally adopted on August 28, 1979; and was amended on September 25, 1984; June 28, 1988; February 28, 1989; July 8, 1992; and April 9, 1997.
6
 
JCPenney Board of Directors Compensation and Benefit Programs
Attachment A
General
Units shall be measured by reference to the fair market value of a share of Company Stock.
Fair Market Value
For purposes of the Plan, the fair market value ("Fair Market Value") of a share of Company Stock shall be the closing market price for that date as reported in the composite transaction table covering transactions of New York Stock Exchange listed-securities or such other amount as the Plan Committee shall ascertain reasonably to represent such Fair Market Value.
Calculation of Units
The number of Units, to be calculated to the nearest thousandth of a Unit, shall be determined (1) on the effective date of the election of the Unit Factor, by dividing (a) the balance, if any, then in a Director's account by (b) the Fair Market Value of a Share of Company Stock on the last trading day prior to the date of election of such Factor and (2) as to Fees deferred thereafter, by dividing (a) the amount of such deferred Fees on any date on which such Fees would otherwise have been paid by (b) the Fair Market Value of a share of Company Stock on the last trading day prior to the date such deferred Fees would otherwise have been paid.
Cash Dividends
Whenever a cash dividend is paid on a share of Company Stock, the number of Units in a Director's Account shall be increased by a number determined by dividing (1) the product of (a) the number of such Units times (b) an amount equal to the amount of the cash dividend paid on a share of Company Stock by (2) the Fair Market Value of a share of Company Stock on the last trading date prior to the appropriate dividend payment date.
Adjustments
In the event of any change in the outstanding Company Stock by reason of a stock dividend, stock split, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, combination or exchange of shares, spin-off, distribution to holders of Company Stock (other than cash dividends), or the like, the Plan Committee shall adjust appropriately the number of Units credited to a Director's Account.
Valuation of Account Balance Referenced to Units
If a Director has elected to have his or her Account balance determined by reference to the Unit Factor, then the value at any time of the balance in such Account shall be determined by multiplying (1) the number of Units in such Account by (2) the Fair Market Value of a share of Company Stock on the last trading day prior to the date such value is determined.
 
7
 JCPenney Board of Directors Compensation and Benefit Programs

Exhibit 10.5
 
 
 
J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc., a Delaware corporation (formerly, J. C. Penney Company, Inc.), amends and completely restates the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Benefit Restoration Plan (formerly the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Benefit Restoration Plan) effective as of 11:59 P.M. on December 31, 2007. The Plan is maintained by the Company primarily for the purpose of providing benefits for eligible Associates in excess of the limit on benefits and contributions imposed by Code section 415 and the compensation limit under Code section 401(a)(17).
This document amends and completely restates the portion of the Supplemental Retirement Program for Management Profit-Sharing Associates of J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. that provided benefits that would have been payable under the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Pension Plan and the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan but for the limits on benefits, contributions, and compensation imposed on retirement plans qualified under the Code. With respect to Associates who terminated employment prior to August 1, 1995, benefits payable to such Associates are determined pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Supplemental Retirement Program for Management Profit-Sharing Associates of J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. in effect as of July 31, 1995.
The provisions of the Plan as amended and restated herein will apply to the entire benefit of each Participant who is an Associate on or after the Effective Date and each Participant who had a Separation from Service prior to the Effective Date and had not commenced receiving benefit payments under the Plan as of the Effective Date. For all other Participants who have commenced receiving benefits under the Plan as of the Effective Date, the provisions of the Plan as in effect at the time each such Participant commenced receiving benefits will continue to be applicable.
Set forth in Appendix II for reference only is a copy of the Plan as in effect on October 3, 2004, and amendments to that Plan adopted after that date. Unless otherwise indicated, no provision of the Plan as amended and restated shall amend any provision of the Plan in Appendix II.
Words and phrases with initial capital letters used throughout the Plan are defined in Article 2.
 
 
2.1
 
Actuarial Equivalent or Actuarially Equivalent
 
means a form of benefit payment under which the aggregate payments expected to be received are equal in value to the aggregate payments expected to be received under a different form of benefit payment using the interest rate and other factors set forth in this Section.
(a) This paragraph applies to determine the present value of a Plan Benefit payable to a Participant or a Spouse in the form of five annual installments or an immediate lump sum payment. Actuarial Equivalent or Actuarially Equivalent means an amount equal to the greater of (i) the present value of the monthly Plan Benefit payable on the applicable Payment Commencement Date to the Participant in the form of a Single Life Annuity, or to the Spouse in the form of a qualified preretirement survivor annuity as defined in Section 4.2, calculated by using the Applicable Interest Rate, the Applicable Mortality Table, and the applicable Early Retirement Factors or Early Reduction Factors or (ii) the present value of the Plan Benefit payable as a Single Life Annuity to the Participant or as a qualified preretirement survivor annuity to the Spouse on the Participants Normal Retirement Date (or the present value of the late Plan Benefit, if applicable, payable to a Participant on the first day of the month immediately following the Participants Separation from Service during any month after the month in which he attains Normal Retirement Age) calculated by using the Applicable Interest Rate and the Applicable Mortality Table.
(b)
 
This paragraph applies to determine the present value of a Plan Benefit payable to an alternate payee pursuant to a domestic relations order. "Actuarial Equivalent" or "Actuarially Equivalent" means an amount calculated applying the methodology in Section 2.1(a) using the alternate payees applicable commencement date, the Applicable Interest Rate, the Applicable Mortality Table, and the applicable Early Retirement Factors or Early Reduction Factors.
 
(c)
 
For purposes of Section 2.14, Actuarial Equivalent or Actuarially Equivalent will be determined using the Applicable Interest Rate under Section 2.2 and the Applicable Mortality Table under Section 2.3.
2.2 
Applicable Interest Rate
means, for a Participant who has a Separation from Service after the Effective Date, the adjusted first, second, and third segment rates under Code section 417(e)(3)(C) and (D), determined with regard to the 2008 through 2011 phase-in provisions of Code section 417(e)(3)(D)(iii), for the month of August preceding a Payment Commencement Date occurring during the next following January 1 through June 30 period and for the month of February preceding a Payment
Commencement Date occurring during the next following July 1 through December 31 period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of calculating the phase-in of the Applicable Interest Rate, 1% will be added to the annual rate of interest on 30-year Treasury securities for the above-determined month. If a Participant has a Separation from Service prior to the Effective Date, the Applicable Interest Rate is the annual rate of interest on 30-year Treasury securities for the month of August, 2006, plus 1%.
2.3 
Applicable Mortality Table
means, for a Participant who has a Separation from Service after the Effective Date, the mortality table as prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury under Code section 417(e)(3)for the Plan Year containing the Payment Commencement Date. If a Participant has a Separation from Service prior to the Effective Date, the Applicable Mortality Table is the mortality table as prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury under Code section 417(e)(3) as in effect for August, 2006.
2.4
Associate
means any person who is employed by a Controlled Group Member if the relationship between a Controlled Group Member and such person would constitute the legal relationship of employer and employee, including an officer who may or may not be a director, but excluding a director serving only in that capacity, and excluding any employee of a Controlled Group Member substantially all the operations of which are outside the United States unless United States Social Security contributions are made on behalf of such employee.
2.5 
Beneficiary
 
means one or more persons or entities, including contingent Beneficiaries, entitled to receive a distribution of a Participants interest in the Plan in the event of his death.
2.6 
Benefits
 
Administration
 
Committee
means the committee appointed by the Human Resources Committee and authorized by Article 6 to administer the Plan.
2.7 
Board of Directors
means the Board of Directors of the Parent Company.
2.8 
Change in Control Plan
 
means the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Change in Control Plan, as amended from time to time.
2.9 
Code
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. References to "regulations" are to regulations published by the Secretary of the Treasury under applicable provisions of the Code, unless otherwise expressly indicated.
2.10
Company
means the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc., a Delaware corporation. The term "Company" will also include any
successor employer, if the successor employer expressly agrees in writing as of the effective date of succession to continue the Plan.
2.11 
Controlled Group
means the Company and all other corporations, trades, and businesses, the employees of which, together with employees of the Company, are required by the first sentence of subsection (b), by subsection (c), by subsection (m), or by subsection (o) of Code section 414 to be treated as if they were employed by a single employer. For purposes of determining if a Separation from Service has occurred, the Controlled Group will be determined under Code sections 414(b) and 414(c) and Treasury Regulation section 1.414(c) - 2 by using the language at least 50 percent instead of at least 80 percent each place it appears in Code section 1563(a)(1),(2), and (3).
2.12 
Controlled Group Member
means each corporation or unincorporated trade or business that is or was a member of a Controlled Group, but only during such period as it is or was such a member.
2.13 
Early Retirement Age
means the date on which a Participant (i) has attained age 55 and has completed at least 15 years of service (as determined under the Pension Plan) or (ii) if the Participant first participated in the Pension Plan prior to January 1, 1989, has attained age 60 without regard to his years of service.
2.14 
Early Reduction Factors
mean the factors set forth in this Section for use under Section 2.1 for a Participant (or Spouse or alternate payee) whose Payment Event is before the Participants Early Retirement Age. If a Payment Event is before the Participants Early Retirement Age, the factors used in the present value calculations under Sections 2.1(a)(i) and 2.1(b) for each month that a Payment Commencement Date is earlier than the date the Participant would have attained Normal Retirement Age will be equal to 0.5833% for each month between the ages of 65 and 60, 0.4167% for each month between the ages of 60 and 55, and for each month before age 55, such factors that will result in a Plan Benefit (or, if applicable, a qualified preretirement survivor annuity) that is Actuarially Equivalent to a Plan Benefit (or, if applicable a qualified preretirement survivor annuity) commencing at age 55. For these purposes, a qualified preretirement survivor annuity shall be an annuity as defined in Section 4.2.
2.15 
Early Retirement Factors
mean the factors set forth in this Section for use under Section 2.1 for a Participant (or Spouse or alternate payee) whose Payment Event occurs on or after the Participants Early Retirement Age. If a Payment Event is on or after the Participants Early Retirement Age, the factors used in the present value calculation under Sections 2.1(a)(i) and 2.1(b) will be equal to 0.3333% for each month between the ages of 65 and 60, and by 0.4167% for each month between the ages of 60
and 55 that the Payment Commencement Date is earlier than the date the Participant would have attained Normal Retirement Age.
2.16 
Effective Date
means December 31, 2007, at 11:59 P.M.
2.17 
ERISA
means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
2.18 
Human Resources Committee
means the Human Resources Committee of the Company.
2.19 
Human Resources and Compensation Committee
means the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
2.20 
Normal Retirement Age
means age 65.
2.21 
Normal Retirement Benefit
means the retirement benefit payable to a Participant on the Normal Retirement Date, determined in accordance with the applicable provisions of Article 4 of the Pension Plan.
2.22
Normal Retirement Date
means the first day of the month immediately following a Participant's attainment of age 65.
2.23
Parent Company
means the J. C. Penney Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor corporation.
2.24
Participant
means an eligible Associate or former Associate of a Participating Employer who has satisfied the conditions for participating in the Plan as set forth in Article 3 and who has not received a complete distribution of benefits.
2.25
Participating Employer
means the Company and any other Controlled Group Member or organizational unit of the Company or of a Controlled Group Member which is designated as a Participating Employer under the Plan by the Human Resources Committee or the board of directors of the Company; provided, however, that if any such designation would substantially increase the cost of the Plan to the Company, such designation shall be subject to the sole discretion of the Board of Directors.
2.26
Payment
 
Commencement
 
Date
means the date upon which payment of a Plan Benefit is scheduled to begin as determined under Section 5.3.
2.27
Payment Event
 
means the event set forth in Section 5.2 upon which an amount of deferred compensation under this Plan may be paid.
2.28
Pension Benefit
means the amount of a Participant's Normal Retirement Benefit payable to a Participant pursuant to the provisions of the Pension Plan on his Normal Retirement Date (or if the Participant has attained age 65, the late retirement
 
 
benefit payable under Section 4.6, or its successor, of the Pension Plan as of the first day of the month immediately following his Separation from Service) which the Participant has earned as of the first day of the month immediately following his Separation from Service.
2.29
Pension Plan
means the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Pension Plan (formerly, the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Pension Plan) adopted effective February 1, 1966, as amended from time to time.
2.30
Pension Plan Participant
means an Associate or former Associate who is treated as a participant under the Pension Plan.
2.31
Plan
means the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Benefit Restoration Plan(formerly, the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Benefit Restoration Plan) adopted effective August 1, 1995, as amended from time to time.
2.32
Plan Benefit
means the benefit payable to a Participant on his Normal Retirement Date, determined in accordance with the provisions of Article 4 of this Plan or, where applicable, the qualified preretirement survivor annuity, as defined in Section 4.2, payable to a Spouse on the Participants Normal Retirement Date, as the case may be.
2.33 
Plan Year
 
means the
 
twelve-month period beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31 of each calendar year.
2.34
Prior Plan
means the Supplemental Retirement Program for Management Profit-Sharing Associates of J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. (formerly the Supplemental Retirement Program for Management Profit-Sharing Associates of J. C. Penney Company, Inc.)as in effect on July 31, 1995.
2.35
Separation from Service
means the date an Associate dies, retires, or otherwise has a termination of employment from the Controlled Group within the meaning of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(h), or its successor, taking into account the definition of Controlled Group for such purpose in Section 2.11.
2.36
Single Life Annuity
means an annuity with no ancillary benefits, consisting of equal monthly payments beginning as of a designated commencement date and ending with the monthly payment due immediately prior to his death.
2.37
Specified Employee
means a specified employee within the meaning of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(i), or its successor, as determined in accordance with the rules specified by the Board of Directors in resolutions dated December 12, 2007.
2.38 
Spouse
means the individual to whom an Associate is legally married under the laws of the State (within the meaning of section 3(10) of ERISA) in which the Associate is domiciled, or if domiciled outside the United States, under the laws of the State of Texas, subject to federal legal requirements.
2.39
Unrestricted Benefit
means the Pension Benefit determined without applying the provisions of the Pension Plan relating to the limitation on compensation under Code section 401(a)(17) or the limitation on benefits under Code section 415.
For purposes of Section 4.1, any Associate of a Participating Employer who is a Pension Plan Participant on or after August 1, 1995, and whose retirement pension benefit payable pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan is limited by operation of the annual benefit limits under Code section 415 or the compensation limits under Code section 401(a)(17) shall be a Participant in the Plan. In addition, an active or former Associate for whom a benefit was accrued under Paragraph (2) of Article III of the Prior Plan and whose benefit under Paragraph (2) of Article III under the Prior Plan had not been completely distributed to such Associate at July 31, 1995, will also be a Participant in the Plan.
4.1 
Pension Plan Participant Benefit
.
 
A Participant shall be entitled to a Plan Benefit equal in amount to his Unrestricted Benefit less his Pension Benefit.
Additionally, a benefit shall be accrued for each Participant for whom a benefit was accrued under Paragraph (2) of Article III of the Prior Plan at July 31, 1995, and whose accrued benefit had not been completely distributed from the Prior Plan. The value of the Participant's Prior Plan benefit under Paragraph (2) of Article III determined as of July 31, 1995, will become an accrued benefit under this Plan and will be distributed to the Participant pursuant to the terms of this Plan. The distribution to a Participant from this Plan of such Prior Plan accrued benefit will completely discharge the Company and each other Participating Employer from any further liability for such benefit.
4.2 
Death Benefit
.
If a Participant who has a vested interest in his benefit is married at the time such Participant has a Separation from Service by reason of death, the Participant's Spouse will receive a benefit in the form of five equal annual installments commencing as of the first day of the month after the Participant's death. The amount of such death benefit will be calculated under Section 2.1(a) by reference to the Single Life Annuity that would be payable to the Spouse as a qualified preretirement survivor annuity based on the Participants Plan Benefit, and such amount then will be adjusted to reflect payment over five years in the manner described in Section 5.1. For these purposes, a qualified preretirement survivor annuity means a monthly annuity for the life of the Spouse of a deceased Participant equal to the monthly annuity that the Spouse would have received under a qualified joint and survivor annuity, with the survivor annuity being equal to 100% of the amount of the monthly annuity payable during the joint lives of the Participant and his Spouse if the Participant dies on or after the day he attains Early Retirement Age or Normal Retirement Age and 50% if the Participant dies prior to the day he attains Early Retirement Age. The calculation of the qualified joint and survivor annuity shall be determined by reference to the factors used under Exhibits E and G to Appendix I to the Pension Plan, or their successors, to convert an immediate single life annuity to a joint and 50% or 100% survivor annuity, as appropriate. No benefit under this Plan will be payable to a single Participant who has a Separation from Service due to death.
If a Participant who has a Separation from Service (other than by death) and who is either married or single at the time of his subsequent death dies before payment of his vested
benefit has begun under the Plan, the Participant's Beneficiary will receive the benefit in the form of five equal annual installments equal to the amount that would have been payable to a Participant under Section 5.1 and at the same time. If no Beneficiary has been designated by such a Participant, the Beneficiary will be deemed to be the Spouse for a married Participant and the estate for a single Participant.
In the event of the death of a Participant after his benefit has commenced and before all installments have been paid, the remaining unpaid installments shall be paid to his Beneficiary in accordance with the payment schedule of the Participant.
4.3 
Vested Benefit
.
 
 
(a)
Vesting Schedule
. For purposes of the benefit provided by Section 4.1, the interest of each Participant in his benefit will become vested and nonforfeitable in accordance with the following schedule:
 
For purposes of this Section 4.3, a Participant will have the same number of years of service under this Plan as the Participant has under the Pension Plan. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, a Participant will only be entitled to payment of a benefit under the Plan if the Participants interest in his benefit is vested at the time payment is scheduled to commence.
 
(b)
 
Accelerated Vesting
. A Participants interest in his benefit will become 100% vested and nonforfeitable without regard to his years of service on his attainment of Normal Retirement Age while he is an Associate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant who attains age 60 while an Associate will become fully vested in his benefit without regard to his years of service if he became a participant in the Pension Plan before January 1, 1989, or if he was a participant in the JCPenney Financial Services Pension Plan.
(c)
 
Change in Control Plan
. If the Board of Directors exercises its discretion under Section 8.1 to terminate the Plan because of a Change in Control (as defined in Section 8.3)and a Participant is a participant in the Change in Control Plan, the Participants interest in his Plan Benefit will become 100% vested and nonforfeitable without regard to his years of service or age. If a Participant who is also a participant in the Change in Control Plan has an employment termination following a change
in control as those terms are defined in the Change in Control Plan, his interest in his Plan Benefit will become 100% vested and nonforfeitable without regard to his years of service or age.
4.4 
Qualified Unit Closings
. A Participant who has an involuntary Separation from Service as a result of a Qualified Unit Closing (as hereinafter defined) will receive credit for additional months of service and additional months of age, based on the Participant's years of service (before applying the provisions of this Section) in accordance with the schedule set forth below, solely for purposes of determining whether the Participant has attained Early Retirement Age or Normal Retirement Age at his Separation from Service, and not for purposes of determining the amount of the Participant's Plan Benefit or for any other purpose.
 
 
For purposes of this Section, a Qualified Unit Closing means the complete or partial discontinuance of business at a store or other business unit of a Participating Employer, provided the Associates employed at the store or other business unit are eligible for separation pay.
5.1 
Form of Benefit Payments
. Except as otherwise provided in this Plan, benefits will be paid in the form of five equal annual installments. The present value of such installments will be equal to the amount determined under Section 2.1. For a Participant who has a Separation from Service after the Effective Date, the amount of such annual installments will be calculated by using only the adjusted first segment rate of the Applicable Interest Rate, determined with regard to the 2008 through 2011 phase-in provisions of Code section 417(e)(3)(D)(iii). For a Participant who has a Separation from Service prior to the Effective Date, the amount of such annual installments will be calculated by using the Applicable Interest Rate under Section 2.2 that applies to such Participant. The lookback and stability periods set forth in Section 2.2 will apply in determining the adjustment.
5.2 
Payment Events
. The Payment Event for a Participant will be the later of (i) Separation from Service or (ii) January 1, 2008; provided, however, that if a Specified Employees Separation from Service (other than by reason of death) occurs prior to January 1, 2008, and the date of such Separation from Service plus six months is after January 1, 2008, Separation from Service will be the deemed Payment Event for such a Specified Employee.
 
 
5.3 
Payment Commencement Date
. The Payment Commencement Date for a Participant (including a Specified Employee) whose Payment Event under Section 5.2 is Separation from Service will be the first day of the month following the date of his Separation from Service; provided, however, that the actual time of the first payment to a Specified Employee will be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.4. For all other Participants, the Payment Commencement Date for benefits under Section 4.1 will be January 1, 2008, or as soon as practicable thereafter, but no later than the time required for payment under Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(d), or its successor. Subsequent installments for all Participants, including Specified Employees, will be paid on the first through fourth anniversaries of the Payment Commencement Date.
The Payment Commencement Date in the case of a death benefit will be determined under Section 4.2. For an alternate payee, the Payment Commencement Date will be the applicable commencement date as provided in a domestic relations order that conforms with the requirements of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ii), or its successor.
5.4 
Delay for Specified Employees
. If a Participant is a Specified Employee as of the date of his Separation from Service and his Payment Event is Separation from Service (other than by reason of death), payment will not be made before the date that is six months after the date of Separation from Service. The first payment to such a Specified Employee will be paid on the first day of the seventh month following the date of Separation from Service. The initial installment payment to a Specified Employee whose Separation from Service occurs after December 31, 2007, will include an interest adjustment. Such adjustment will be calculated by using only the adjusted first segment rate of the Applicable Interest Rate, determined with regard to the 2008 through 2011 phase-in provisions of Code section 417(e)(3)(D)(iii). The lookback and stability periods set forth in Section 2.2 will apply in determining the adjustment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no interest will be paid to a Specified Employee whose Separation from Service occurs before January 1, 2008. If a Specified Employee dies after a Separation from Service but prior to the expiration of the six-month delay, benefit payments under Section 4.2 will commence to the Beneficiary in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.2
 
5.5 
Subsequent Changes in Time and Form of Payment
. No Participant can make a subsequent election to delay a payment or change the form of payment.
 
5.6 
Prohibition on Acceleration of Payment
. Except as provided in Code section 409A, Treasury regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4) or its successor, this Section, Section 5.7, and Article 8, neither the Participant nor the Company can accelerate the time or schedule of any payment or amount scheduled to be paid pursuant to the terms of the Plan. The Benefits Administration Committee will have the discretion to accelerate payments in accordance with the provisions of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4), or its successor (provided that only the Board of Directors will have the discretion to accelerate payment in accordance with the provisions of Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix), or its successor).
5.7 
Limited Cashouts
. If the present value, as determined herein, of a Participants or Beneficiary's benefit under Sections 4.1 or 4.2, when combined with the present value of a Participants or Beneficiary's interest in any other agreements, methods, programs, or other arrangements with respect to which deferrals of compensation are treated as having been deferred under a single nonqualified deferred compensation plan under Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(c)(2), or its successor, is equal to or less than the applicable dollar amount under Code section 402(g)(1)(B), in effect for the year of distribution, the Benefits Administration Committee will distribute the benefit in the form of an immediate lump sum payment that is the Actuarial Equivalent of such vested Plan Benefit on the Payment Commencement Date, provided that the Participant is not also a Participant in the J. C. Penney
Corporation, Inc. Mirror Savings Plan, or its successor, and the payment results in the termination and liquidation of the entirety of the Participants interest under this Plan and all other agreements, methods, programs, or other arrangements aggregated with this Plan and is in accordance with Treasury regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(v), or its successor. In the case of a Specified Employee, the benefit will be paid at the time specified in Section 5.4, with the comparable adjustment for interest as described in Section 5.4.
 
The Benefits Administration Committee will administer the Plan and will have the full authority and discretion to accomplish that purpose, including without limitation, the authority and discretion to
The Benefits Administration Committee will keep a written record of its actions and proceedings regarding the Plan and all dates, records, and documents relating to its administration of the Plan.
Any action taken or determination made by the Benefits Administration Committee will be conclusive on all parties. No member of the Benefits Administration Committee will vote on any matter relating specifically to such member. In the event that a majority of the members of the Benefits Administration Committee will be specifically affected by any action proposed to be taken (as opposed to being affected in the same manner as each other Participant in the Plan), such action will be taken by the Human Resources Committee.
The Plan is a plan which is unfunded. Benefits under the Plan are paid from the general assets of the Company.
The portion of this Plan in Section 4.1 which comprises the benefit determined due to the limit on annual benefits under the Pension Plan imposed by Code section 415 constitutes a separable part of this Plan which is maintained by the Company solely for the purpose of providing benefits for certain Associates in excess of the limitations on benefits imposed by Code section 415. This separable portion of the Plan shall be construed according to the provisions of ERISA applicable to such plans.
The remaining portion of the Plan is maintained by the Company primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees. The Plan shall be construed according to the provisions of ERISA applicable to such plans.
In the event that it should subsequently be determined by statute or by regulation or ruling that the Plan is not "a plan which is unfunded and is maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees" within the meaning of sections 201(2), 301(a)(3), 401(a)(1), and 4021(b)(6) of ERISA, participation in the Plan shall be restricted by the Benefits Administration Committee to the extent necessary to assure that it will be such a plan within the meaning of such sections.
 
8.1 
Authority of the Board of Directors
. Upon a Change in Control as defined in Section 8.3, the Board of Directors will have the discretion and the authority to (i) terminate and liquidate the Plan pursuant to its irrevocable action taken within the 30 days preceding or the 12 months following a Change in Control and in accordance with Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix)(B), or its successor (in which event the benefit of each Participant who is also a participant in the Change in Control Plan will automatically vest as provided in Section 4.3(c)); (ii) fund a grantor trust in accordance with the provisions of Section 8.2; or (iii) provide that each Participants benefit in the Plan will become 100% vested and nonforfeitable as of the date of the Change in Control without regard to his years of service under the Pension Plan.
 
 
8.2 
Grantor Trust
. To the extent permitted by Code section 409A and the regulations thereunder, the Board of Directors will have the discretion and the authority to transfer assets of the Parent Company, in an amount sufficient to pay benefits that have accrued under the Plan up to the date of the Change in Control, to a grantor trust to be established by the Parent Company for the purpose of paying benefits hereunder; and the Participant's vested benefits shall thereafter be paid to the Participant from such trust in accordance with the terms of the Plan. On each anniversary date of the date of the Change in Control, the Parent Company shall transfer , to the extent permitted by Code section 409A and the regulations thereunder, to the grantor trust an amount necessary to pay all benefits accrued under the Plan during the preceding twelve months.
8.3 
Change in Control Event
.
For the purpose of determining whether a Change in Control has occurred with respect to a Participant, a Change in Control means a change in control event within the meaning of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(5), or its successor, including a change in the ownership of the corporation, a change in the effective control of the corporation, or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the corporation as such events are defined in Treasury Regulation sections 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v),(vi),and (vii). For this purpose, corporation has the meaning given in Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(ii), or its successor.
 
 
 
 
9.1 
Amendment and Termination
. The Human Resources and Compensation Committee may amend or modify the Plan at any time, without prior notice; provided, however, that any such amendment or modification which would substantially increase the cost of the Plan to the Company shall require approval of the Board of Directors.
 
 
 
The Board of Directors may suspend, discontinue, or terminate the Plan at any time without prior notice or approval. Any termination and liquidation of the Plan, including any termination and liquidation of the Plan upon a Change in Control, must comply with the provisions of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix), or its successor.
 
 
 
Subject to the foregoing, in no event will any amendment, modification, suspension, discontinuance, or termination adversely affect the Plan Benefit payable pursuant to Section 4.1
 
for any Participant for whom benefit payments have already begun in accordance with the Plan as in effect prior to the effective date of the amendment, modification, suspension, discontinuance, or termination unless otherwise required to comply with applicable law.
Each amendment to the Plan by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee or the Board of Directors will be made only pursuant to unanimous written consent or by majority vote at a meeting. Upon such action by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee or the Board of Directors, the Plan will be deemed amended as of the date specified as the effective date by such action or in the instrument of amendment. The effective date of any amendment may be before, on, or after the date of such action of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee or the Board of Directors.
 
9.2 
Rights of Associates
. Neither the establishment of the Plan nor any action thereafter taken by the Company, the Parent Company, or any Controlled Group Member or by the Benefits Administration Committee shall be construed as giving to any Associate any vested right to a benefit from the Plan or a right to be retained in employment or any specific position or level of employment with the Company or any Controlled Group Member. Moreover, no Associate shall have any right or claim to any benefits under this Plan if the Associate has an involuntary Separation from Service due to a summary dismissal as defined in the Companys policies and procedures, including resignation in lieu thereof, unless the Benefits Administration Committee, in its
discretion, determines that such Associate shall be eligible for such benefits notwithstanding such summary dismissal.
 
 
 
9.3 
Mistaken Information
. If any information upon which a Participant's benefit under the Plan is calculated has been misstated by the Participant or is otherwise mistaken, such benefit shall not be invalidated (unless upon the basis of the correct information the Participant would not have been entitled to a benefit), but the amount of the benefit shall be adjusted to the proper amount determined on the basis of the correct information and, to the extent permitted by Code section 409A, any overpayments shall be charged against future payments to the Participant or his Beneficiary or otherwise required to be repaid by the recipient.
 
9.4 
Liability
. Neither the Board of Directors (including any committees thereof) of the Parent Company, the Company, or of any Participating Employer, nor any member of the Benefits Administration Committee or the Human Resources Committee nor any person to whom any of them may delegate any duty or power in connection with administering the Plan shall be personally liable for any action or failure to act with respect to the Plan.
 
9.5 
Reemployed Participant
. If a retired Participant again becomes an Associate of a Participating Employer, the payment of benefits hereunder shall continue. Upon such Associate's subsequent Separation from Service, he shall be entitled to receive any applicable benefits, if any, under Article 4 pursuant to the provisions of this Plan.
 
 
 
9.6 
Construction
. In determining the meaning of any provision of the Plan, words imparting the masculine gender shall include the feminine and the singular shall include the plural, unless the context requires otherwise. Headings of Articles, Sections and Subsections in the Plan are for convenience and reference only and are not intended to modify or affect the meaning of the substantive provisions of the Plan.
9.7 
Non-assignability of Benefits
.
The benefits payable hereunder or the right to receive future benefits under the Plan may not be anticipated, alienated, pledged, encumbered, or subjected to any charge or legal process, and if any attempt is made to do so, or a person eligible for any benefits becomes bankrupt, the interest under the Plan of the person affected may be terminated by the Benefits Administration Committee which, in its sole discretion, may cause the same to be held or applied for the benefit of one or more of the dependents of such person or make any other disposition of such benefits that it deems appropriate, in all events subject to the requirements of Code section 409A.
9.8 
Governing Law
. Except to the extent that the Plan may be subject to the provisions of ERISA, the Plan will be construed
and enforced according to the laws of the State of Texas, without giving effect to the conflict of laws principles thereof. Except as otherwise required by ERISA, every right of action by a Participant, former Participant, or Beneficiary with respect to the Plan shall be barred after the expiration of three years from the date of Separation from Service of the Participant or the date of receipt of the notice of denial of a claim for benefits, if earlier. In the event ERISA's limitations on legal actions do not apply, the laws of the State of Texas with respect to limitations of legal actions shall apply and the cause of action must be brought no later than four years after the date the action accrues.
If an Associate, or an authorized representative of an Associate, does not receive the benefits which he believes he is entitled to receive under the Plan, he may file a claim for benefits with the Benefits Administration Committee or its delegate. All claims will be made in writing no later than the time prescribed by Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(g), or its successor, and will be signed by the claimant or the claimants authorized representative. If the claimant does not furnish sufficient information to determine the validity of the claim, the Benefits Administration Committee or its delegate will advise the claimant in writing of any additional information that is required.
Each claim will be approved or disapproved by the Benefits Administration
Committee or its delegate
within 60 days following the receipt of the information necessary to process the claim, unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing, in which case a decision will be rendered as soon as possible but not later than 120 days after receipt of the information necessary to process the claim. Notice of the extension must be provided to the claimant or the claimants authorized representative before the expiration of the original 60-day period and indicate the special circumstances requiring the extension of time and the date by which the Plan expects to make a determination.
In the event the Benefits Administration
Committee or its delegate
denies a claim for benefits in whole or in part, the Benefits Administration
Committee or its delegate
will notify the claimant in writing of the denial of the claim. Such notice by the Benefits Administration
Committee or its delegate
will also set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, the specific reasons for such denial, the specific Plan provisions on which the denial is based, and a description of any additional material or information necessary to perfect the claim, with an explanation of why such material or information is necessary and an explanation of the Plan's claim review procedure as set forth below.
A claimant may appeal a denial of his claim by requesting a review of the decision by the Benefits Administration Committee or a person designated by the Benefits Administration Committee, which person will be a named fiduciary under Section 402(a)(2) of ERISA for purposes of this Article. An appeal must be submitted in writing within 60 days after the denial and must (i) request a review of the claim for benefits under the Plan, (ii) set forth all of the grounds upon which claimant's request for review is based and any facts, documents, records, or other information in
support thereof, and (iii) set forth any issues or comments which the claimant deems pertinent to the appeal. The Benefits Administration Committee or the named fiduciary designated by the Benefits Administration Committee will make a full and fair review of each appeal and any written materials submitted in connection with the appeal, without regard to whether the information was submitted under the initial claim determination. The Benefits Administration Committee or the named fiduciary designated by the Benefits Administration Committee will act upon each appeal within 60 days after receipt thereof unless special circumstances require an extension of the time for processing, in which case a decision will be rendered as soon as possible but not later than 120 days after the appeal is received. Notice of the extension must be provided to the claimant or the claimants authorized representative before the expiration of the original 60-day period and indicate the special circumstances requiring the extension of time and the date by which the Plan expects to make a determination. The claimant will be given the opportunity to review pertinent documents or materials upon submission of a written request to the Benefits Administration Committee or named fiduciary, provided the Benefits Administration Committee or named fiduciary finds the requested documents or materials are pertinent to the appeal.
On the basis of its review, the Benefits Administration Committee or named fiduciary will make an independent determination of the claimant's eligibility for benefits under the Plan. The decision of the Benefits Administration Committee or named fiduciary on any claim for benefits will be final and conclusive upon all parties thereto. In the event the Benefits Administration Committee or named fiduciary denies an appeal in whole or in part, it will give written or electronic notice of the decision to the claimant or the claimants authorized representative, which notice will set forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant the specific reasons for such denial and which will make specific reference to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision was based and provide other additional information, as applicable, required by 29 Code of Federal Regulations section 2560.503-1, or its successor.
If the claimants claim or appeal is approved, any resulting payment of benefits will be made no later than the time prescribed for payment of benefits by Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(g), or its successor.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Benefit Restoration Plan is a plan maintained by the Company primarily for the purpose of providing benefits for eligible Associates in excess of the limit on benefits and contributions imposed by Internal Revenue Code Section 415 and the compensation limit under section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code.
This document amends and completely restates the portion of the Supplemental Retirement Program for Management Profit-Sharing Associates of J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. that provided benefits that would have been payable under the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Pension Plan and the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan but for the limits on benefits, contributions, and compensation imposed on retirement plans qualified under the Internal Revenue Code. With respect to Associates who terminated employment prior to August 1, 1995, benefits payable to such Associates are determined pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Supplemental Retirement Program for Management Profit-Sharing Associates of J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. in effect as of July 31, 1995.
Effective January 1, 1999, amounts credited to the Annual Benefit Limit Make-Up Account as of December 31, 1998 of each Participant were transferred into the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Mirror Savings Plan II and therefore were no longer payable under the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Benefit Restoration Plan after December 31, 1998.
Effective January 1, 1999, the Thrift Drug, Inc. Benefit Restoration Plan was merged into the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Benefit Restoration Plan.
For the purpose of this Plan the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Associate
: Any person who is employed by a Controlled Group Member if the relationship between a Controlled Group Member and such person would constitute the legal relationship of employer and employee, including an officer who may or may not be a director, but excluding a director serving only in that capacity, and excluding any employee of a Controlled Group Member substantially all the operations of which are outside the United States unless United States Social Security contributions are made on behalf of such employee.
Benefits Administration Committee
: The committee appointed by the Human Resources Committee and authorized by Article VI to administer the Plan.
Board of Directors
: Board of Directors of the Parent Company.
Code
: The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. References to "regulations" are to regulations published by the Secretary of the Treasury under applicable provisions of the Code, unless otherwise expressly indicated.
Company
: J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc., a Delaware corporation. The term "Company" will also include any successor employer, if the successor employer expressly agrees in writing as of the effective date of succession to continue the Plan.
Controlled Group
: The Company and all other corporations, trades, and businesses, the employees of which, together with employees of the Company, are required by the first sentence of subsection (b), by subsection (c), by subsection (m), or by subsection (o) of Code section 414 to be treated as if they were employed by a single employer.
Controlled Group Member
: Each corporation or unincorporated trade or business that is or was a member of a Controlled Group, but only during such period as it is or was such a member.
Effective Date
: August 1, 1995.
ERISA
: Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
Human Resources and Compensation Committee
: The Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Parent Company.
Human Resources Committee:
The Human Resources Committee of the Management Committee of the Company.
Parent Company
:
 
J. C. Penney Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor corporation.
Participant
: An eligible Associate of a Participating Employer who has satisfied the conditions for participating in the Plan as set forth in Article III and who has not received a complete distribution of benefits.
Participating Employer
: The Company and any other Controlled Group Member or organizational unit of the Company or of a Controlled Group Member which is designated as a Participating Employer under the Plan by the Human Resources Committee or the Board of Directors of the Company; provided, however, that if any such designation would substantially increase the cost of the Plan to the Company, such designation shall be subject to the sole discretion of the Board of Directors of the Parent Company.
Pension Benefit
:
The monthly benefit that is payable to a Participant pursuant to the provisions of the Pension Plan in the form of a single-life, no-death-benefit annuity, assuming the Participant's benefit commencement date under the Pension Plan is the first day of the month immediately following the date of the Participant's Separation from Service.
Pension Plan
: J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Pension Plan, as amended from time to time.
Pension Plan Participant
: An Associate or former Associate who is treated as a participant under the Pension Plan.
Plan
: J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Benefit Restoration Plan, as amended from time to time.
Plan Year
:
The twelve-month period beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31 of each calendar year.
Prior Plan
:
The Supplemental Retirement Program for Management Profit-Sharing Associates of J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. as in effect on July 31, 1995.
Separation from Service or Separates from Service
: Termination of service by reason of disability, discharge, retirement (including resignation), or death. Termination of service due to a disability is deemed to occur upon the later of termination of sick pay or the end of any leave of absence granted the Participant.
Spouse
: The individual to whom an Associate is legally married under the laws of the State (within the meaning of section 3(10) of ERISA) in which the Associate is domiciled, or if domiciled outside the United States, under the laws of the State of Texas.
Supplemental Retirement Program
: The Supplemental Retirement Program for Management Profit-Sharing Associates of J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc., as amended and restated August 1, 1995, and as further amended from time to time.
Unrestricted Benefit
: The monthly benefit that would be payable to a Participant pursuant to the provisions of the Pension Plan in the form of a single-life, no-death-benefit annuity, assuming the Participant's benefit commencement date under the Pension Plan is the first day of the month immediately following the date of the Participant's Separation from Service, if the Participant's benefit under the Pension Plan were determined without applying the provisions of the Pension Plan relating to the limitation on compensation under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code or the limitation on benefits under Section 415 of the Code.
(1)
Pension Plan Benefit
:
For purposes of Paragraph (1) of Article IV, any Associate of a Participating Employer who is a Pension Plan Participant on or after the Effective Date and whose retirement pension benefit payable pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan is limited by operation of the annual benefit limits under Section 415 of the Code or the compensation limits under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code shall be a Participant in the Plan. In addition an active or former Associate for whom a benefit was accrued under Paragraph (2) of Article III of the Prior Plan and whose benefit under Paragraph (2) of Article III under the Prior Plan had not been completely distributed to such Associate at July 31, 1995, will also be a Participant in the Plan.
(1)
 
Pension Plan Participant Benefit
:
A Participant shall be entitled to a monthly benefit equal in amount to his Unrestricted Benefit less his Pension Benefit.
Additionally, a benefit shall be accrued for each Participant for whom a benefit was accrued under Paragraph (2) of Article III of the Prior Plan at July 31, 1995, and whose accrued benefit had not been completely distributed from the Prior Plan. The value of the Participant's Prior Plan benefit under Paragraph (2) of Article III determined as of July 31, 1995, will become an accrued benefit under this Plan and will be distributed to the Participant pursuant to the terms of this Plan. The distribution to a Participant from this Plan of such Prior Plan accrued benefit will completely discharge the Company and each other Participating Employer from any further liability for such benefit
(2)
  
Death Benefit
:
For purposes of the benefit provided by Paragraph (1) of this Article IV, if a Participant is married at the time such Participant Separates from Service by reason of death, or if a Participant who has Separated from Service and who is married at the time of his death, dies before payment has begun under the Plan, the Participant's Spouse will receive the benefit, at the time the Participant would have attained age 55, that would have been payable if the Participant had a Separation from Service immediately prior to such Participant's death (if he was an active Participant on the date of death), had survived to age 55, and had begun to receive benefits immediately prior to his death in the form of a 50% joint and survivor annuity without payment certain with the Spouse as the beneficiary.
Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the Participant at the time of his death (a) was 55 years of age or more, (b) had 15 years or more of service, as defined by the Pension Plan, and (c) Separates from Service by reason of death, the joint and survivor annuity payable to the Spouse will be in the form of a 100% (75% if death occurs prior to January 1, 1996) joint and survivor annuity without payment certain.
(3)
Vesting
:
For purposes of the benefit provided by Paragraph (1) of this Article IV, a Participant will have the same degree of vested and nonforfeitable interest in his benefit under this Plan as the Participant has in his Pension Benefit under the Pension Plan.
(4)
 
Effect of Certain Payments Made in December 1992
: In the event the Company made payments to a current or former Participant on or before December 31, 1992 under the Company's Profit Incentive Compensation program and under the Performance Unit Plan and such payments were attributable to the Company's fiscal year ending on January 30, 1993, this Paragraph shall
apply. The effect of such payments on the benefits payable to such individual under the Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan and under the Pension Plan shall be determined with respect to whether an increase or decrease in benefits resulted. Benefits payable under this Plan to such current or former Participants shall be adjusted (a) to offset any such increase in benefits and/or (b) to restore any such decrease in benefits so that no advantage or detriment, as the case may be, shall be experienced by any such current or former Participant with respect to total retirement benefits under the Pension Plan and Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan and this Plan.
(1)
 
 
Optional Forms and Commencement of Benefit Payments
: Except as otherwise provided in this Plan and subject to such rules and regulations as the Benefits Administration Committee may establish from time to time with respect to time and manner of payment, benefits provided by this Plan shall be payable as follows. For purposes of the benefit provided by Paragraph (1) of Article IV, the Participant shall receive the annual benefit payable under Paragraph (1) of Article IV in such a form and at such time and actuarially adjusted in such a manner as the benefit payable under the Pension Plan. Payment of such benefit may be deferred to a date no later than the Participants attainment of age 65 only if the Participant has elected to defer receipt of benefits under the Pension Plan.
 
 
(2)
 
Small Annuities
: If the total benefit payable with respect to a Participant under Paragraph (1) of Article IV plus the benefits payable from the Pension Plan would not provide monthly payments exceeding $100, the benefit shall be converted into an actuarially equivalent lump sum payment (applying the actuarial factors utilized in the Pension Plan).
 
 
(3)
 
Installments
:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan to the contrary, a retired Participant who on a date to be determined by the Benefits Administration Committee is receiving benefits from the Plan, or is eligible to receive benefits from the Plan, may make a one-time irrevocable election that his remaining unpaid benefits from the Plan be paid as 5 equal annual installments. The election must be made during an election period and in a manner authorized by the Benefits Administration Committee or its delegate. The total of such payments shall be actuarially equivalent to his remaining unpaid benefits under Paragraph (1) of Article IV, determined by applying the actuarial factors utilized in the Pension Plan for lump sum payments except that the interest rate shall be determined by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee. Payment dates shall be determined by the Benefits Administration Committee or its delegate.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan to the contrary (except for small annuities payable under Paragraph (2) of Article V), a Participant who on a date to be determined by the Benefits Administration Committee has not had a Separation from Service may make an irrevocable election that his benefits from the Plan be paid as 5 equal annual installments. The election, which shall be made in a manner authorized by the Benefits Administration Committee or its delegate, must be made prior to his Separation from Service. If a Participant makes an installment election, the first annual installment will be made as of the first day of the month immediately following the latest to occur of (i) the Participants Separation from Service, (ii) six full months following the date of the Participants election,
if the election is made in a calendar year prior to the calendar year of his Separation from Service, or (iii) 12 full months following the date of his election, if the election is made in the calendar year of his Separation from Service. The total of such payments shall be actuarially equivalent to his benefits under Paragraph (1) of Article IV, determined by applying the actuarial factors utilized in the Pension Plan for lump sum payments except that the interest rate shall be determined by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee. Payment dates shall be determined by the Benefits Administration Committee or its delegate.
In the event of the death of the retired or active Participant after his election is made and before all installments have been paid, the remaining unpaid installments shall be paid to his beneficiary in accordance with the payment schedule of the Participant except that the first remaining installment shall be paid as soon as administratively feasible after satisfactory proof of death is received by the Benefits Administration Committee or its delegate, if later.
The Benefits Administration Committee will administer the Plan and will have the full authority and discretion to accomplish that purpose, including without limitation, the authority and discretion to
The Benefits Administration Committee will keep a written record of its actions and proceedings regarding the Plan and all dates, records, and documents relating to its administration of the Plan.
Any action taken or determination made by the Benefits Administration Committee will be conclusive on all parties. No member of the Benefits Administration Committee will vote on any matter relating specifically to such member. In the event that a majority of the members of the Benefits Administration Committee will be specifically affected by any action proposed to be taken (as opposed to being affected in the same manner as each other Participant in the Plan), such action will be taken by the Human Resources Committee.
The Plan is a plan which is unfunded. Benefits under the Plan are paid from the general assets of the Company.
The portion of this Plan in Paragraph (1) of Article IV which comprises the benefit determined due to the limit on annual benefits under the Pension Plan imposed by Code Section 415 constitutes a separable part of this Plan which is maintained by the Company solely for the purpose of providing benefits for certain Associates in excess of the limitations on benefits imposed by Section 415 of the Code. This separable portion of the Plan shall be construed according to the provisions of ERISA applicable to such Plans.
The remaining portion of the Plan is maintained by the Company primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees. The Plan shall be construed according to the provisions of ERISA applicable to such plans.
In the event that it should subsequently be determined by statute or by regulation or ruling that the Plan is not "a plan which is unfunded and is maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees" within the meaning of sections 201(2), 301(a)(3), 401(a)(1), and 4021(b)(6) of ERISA, participation in the Plan shall be restricted by the Benefits Administration Committee to the extent necessary to assure that it will be such a plan within the meaning of such sections.
(1)
 
Amendment and Termination
: The Human Resources and Compensation Committee or the Board of Directors of the Company may amend or modify the Plan at any time, without prior notice; provided, however, that any such amendment or modification which would substantially increase the cost of the Plan to the Company shall require approval of the Board of Directors of the Parent Company. The Board of Directors of the Parent Company or the Company may suspend, discontinue, or terminate the Plan at any time without prior notice or approval.
In no event will any amendment, modification, suspension, discontinuance, or termination adversely affect the Plan benefit payable pursuant to Paragraph (1) of Article IV for any Participant for whom benefit payments have already begun in accordance with the Plan as in effect prior to the effective date of the amendment, modification, suspension, discontinuance, or termination unless otherwise required to comply with applicable law.
Each amendment to the Plan by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee or the Board of Directors of the Parent Company or the Company will be made only pursuant to unanimous written consent or by majority vote at a meeting. Upon such action by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee or the Board of Directors of the Parent Company or the Company, the Plan will be deemed amended as of the date specified as the effective date by such action or in the instrument of amendment. The effective date of any amendment may be before, on, or after the date of such action of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee or the Board of Directors of the Parent Company or the Company.
(2)
 
Rights of Associates
: Neither the establishment of the Plan nor any action thereafter taken by the Company, the Parent Company, or any Controlled Group Member or by the Benefits Administration Committee shall be construed as giving to any Associate any vested right to a benefit from the Plan or a right to be retained in employment or any specific position or level of employment with the Company or any Controlled Group Member. Moreover, no Associate shall have any right or claim to any benefits under this Plan if the Associate is summarily discharged, as defined by the Company (including resignation in lieu thereof) unless the Benefits Administration Committee, in its discretion, determines that such Associate shall be eligible for such benefits notwithstanding such summary discharge.
 
(3)
 
Mistaken Information
: If any information upon which a Participant's benefit under the Plan is calculated has been misstated by the Participant or is otherwise mistaken, such benefit shall not be invalidated (unless upon the basis of the correct information the Participant would not have been entitled
to a benefit), but the amount of the benefit shall be adjusted to the proper amount determined on the basis of the correct information and any overpayments shall be charged against future payments to the Participant or his beneficiary.
 
(4)
 
Liability
: Neither the Board of Directors (including any committees thereof) of the Parent Company, the Company, or of any Participating Employer nor any member of the Benefits Administration Committee or the Human Resources Committee nor any person to whom any of them may delegate any duty or power in connection with administering the Plan shall be personally liable for any action or failure to act with respect to the Plan.
 
(5)
 
Reemployed Participants
: If a retired Participant
again becomes an Associate of a Participating Employer, the payment of benefits hereunder shall continue. Upon such Associate's Separation from Service he shall be entitled to receive applicable benefits, if any, under Article IV pursuant to uniform rules approved by the Benefits Administration Committee.
 
 
 
(6)
 
Construction
: In determining the meaning of any provision of the Plan, words imparting the masculine gender shall include the feminine and the singular shall include the plural, unless the context requires otherwise. Headings of paragraphs and Articles in the Plan are for convenience only and are not intended to modify or affect the meaning of the substantive provisions of the Plan.
(7)
Non-assignability of Benefits
:
The benefits payable hereunder or the right to receive future benefits under the Plan may not be anticipated, alienated, pledged, encumbered, or subjected to any charge or legal process, and if any attempt is made to do so, or a person eligible for any benefits becomes bankrupt, the interest under the Plan of the person affected may be terminated by the Benefits Administration Committee which, in its sole discretion, may cause the same to be held or applied for the benefit of one or more of the dependents of such person or make any other disposition of such benefits that it deems appropriate.
(8)
  
Governing Law
:
Except to the extent that the Plan may be subject to the provisions of ERISA, the Plan will be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Texas, without giving effect to the conflict of laws principles thereof. Except as otherwise required by ERISA, every right of action by a Participant, former Participant, or Beneficiary with respect to the Plan shall be barred after the expiration of three years from the date of Separation from Service of the Participant or the date of receipt of the notice of denial of a claim for benefits, if earlier. In the event ERISA's limitations on legal actions do not apply, the laws of the State of Texas with respect to limitations of legal actions shall apply and the cause of action must be
 
 
brought no later than four years after the date the action accrues.
(9)
 
Change of Control
:
Upon a Change of Control (as hereinafter defined), assets of the Parent Company in an amount sufficient to pay benefits that have accrued under the Plan up to that date shall immediately be transferred to a grantor trust to be established by the Parent Company for the purpose of paying benefits hereunder, and the Participant's vested benefits shall thereafter be paid to the Participant from such trust in accordance with the terms of the Plan; provided that at the time of such Change of Control, the Participant may make an irrevocable election to have his Plan benefits paid in a single-sum immediately upon the later of (i) the date of the Change of Control, or (ii) the Participant's retirement date, in which event his benefits shall be reduced by 10% as a penalty for early payment. On each anniversary date of the date of a Change of Control, the Parent Company shall transfer to the grantor trust an amount necessary to pay all benefits accrued under the Plan during the preceding twelve months.
For purposes of this paragraph (9), a Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred if the event set forth in any one of the following subparagraphs shall have occurred:
(a)
 
any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Parent Company (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Parent Company or its Affiliates) representing 50% or more of the combined voting power of the Parent Company's then outstanding securities; or
(b)
 
during any period of two consecutive calendar years, the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving as directors of the Parent Company: individuals, who on July 14, 1999 constitute the Board of Directors of the Company and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with the settlement of an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of the Parent Company) whose appointment or election by the Board of Directors of the Parent Company or nomination for election by the Parent Company's stockholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who either were directors on July 14, 1999 or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or
(c)
 
there is consummated a merger or consolidation of the Parent Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Parent Company with any other corporation or entity, other than (i) a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting
securities of the Parent Company outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any Parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Parent Company or any subsidiary of the Parent Company, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of the Parent Company, such surviving entity or any Parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected solely to implement a recapitalization of the Parent Company (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Parent Company (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Parent Company or its Affiliates) representing 50% or more of the combined voting power of the Parent Company's then outstanding securities; or
(d)
 
the stockholders of the Parent Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Parent Company, or there is consummated a sale or disposition by the Parent Company or any of its subsidiaries of any assets which individually or as part of a series of related transactions constitute all or substantially all of the Parent Company's consolidated assets, other than any such sale or disposition to an entity at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by stockholders of the Parent Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the voting securities of the Parent Company immediately prior to such sale or disposition; or
(e)
 
the execution of a binding agreement that if consummated would result in a Change of Control of a type specified in subparagraphs (a) or (c) above (an "Acquisition Agreement") or of a binding agreement for the sale or disposition of assets that, if consummated, would result in a Change of Control of a type specified in subparagraph (d) above (an "Asset Sale Agreement") or the adoption by the Board of Directors of the Parent Company of a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Parent Company that, if consummated, would result in a Change of Control of a type specified in subparagraph (d) above (a "Plan of Liquidation"), provided, however, that a Change of Control of the type specified in this subparagraph (e) shall not be deemed to exist or have occurred as a result of the execution of such Acquisition Agreement or Asset Sale Agreement, or the adoption of such a Plan of Liquidation, from and after the Abandonment Date. As used in this subparagraph (e), the term "Abandonment Date" shall mean the date on which (i) an Acquisition Agreement, Asset Sale Agreement or Plan of Liquidation is terminated (pursuant to its terms or otherwise) without having been consummated, (ii) the parties to an Acquisition Agreement or Asset Sale Agreement abandon the transactions contemplated thereby, (iii) the Parent Company
abandons a Plan of Liquidation, or (iv) a court or regulatory body having competent jurisdiction enjoins or issues a cease and desist or stop order with respect to or otherwise prevents the consummation of, or a regulatory body notifies the Parent Company that it will not approve an Acquisition Agreement, Asset Sale Agreement or Plan of Liquidation or the transactions contemplated thereby and such injunction, order or notice has become final and not subject to appeal; or
(f)
 
the Board of Directors of the Parent Company adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Plan, a Change of Control has occurred.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change of Control shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of the common stock of the Parent Company immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity (i) which owns all or substantially all of the assets of the Parent Company immediately following such transaction or series of transactions, (ii) which is intended to reflect or track the value or performance of a particular division, business segment or subsidiary of the Parent Company, or (iii) which is an affiliated company, subsidiary, or spin-off entity owned by the stockholders of the Parent Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Parent Company on the date of such spin-off.
As used in connection with the foregoing definition of Change of Control, "Affiliate" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act; "Beneficial Owner" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act; "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time; "Parent" shall mean any entity that becomes the Beneficial Owner of at least 50% of the voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the Parent Company or of an entity that survives any merger or consolidation of the Parent Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Parent Company; and "Person" shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) the Parent Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Parent Company or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation or entity owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Parent Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Parent Company.
If an Associate does not receive the benefits which he believes he is entitled to receive under the Plan, he may file a claim for benefits with the Benefits Administration Committee or its delegate. All claims will be made in writing and will be signed by the claimant. If the claimant does not furnish sufficient information to determine the validity of the claim, the Benefits Administration Committee or its delegate will indicate to the claimant any additional information which is required.
Each claim will be approved or disapproved by the Benefits Administration
Committee or its delegate
within 90 days following the receipt of the information necessary to process the claim. In the event the Benefits Administration
Committee or its delegate
denies a claim for benefits in whole or in part, the Benefits Administration
Committee or its delegate
will notify the claimant in writing of the denial of the claim. Such notice by the Benefits Administration
Committee or its delegate
will also set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, the specific reasons for such denial, the specific Plan provisions on which the denial is based, a description of any additional material or information necessary to perfect the claim with an explanation of the Plan's claim review procedure as set forth below. If no action is taken by the Benefits Administration
Committee or its delegate
on a claim within 90 days, the claim will be deemed to be denied for purposes of the review procedure.
A claimant may appeal a denial of his claim by requesting a review of the decision by the Benefits Administration Committee or a person designated by the Committee, which person will be a named fiduciary under Section 402(a)(2) of ERISA for purposes of this Article IX. An appeal must be submitted in writing within 60 days after the denial and must (i) request a review of the claim for benefits under the Plan, (ii) set forth all of the grounds upon which claimant's request for review is based and any facts in support thereof, and (iii) set forth any issues or comments which the claimant deems pertinent to the appeal. The Benefits Administration Committee or the named fiduciary designated by the Benefits Administration Committee will make a full and fair review of each appeal and any written materials submitted in connection with the appeal. The Benefits Administration Committee or the named fiduciary designated by the Benefits Administration Committee will act upon each appeal within 60 days after receipt thereof unless special circumstances require an extension of the time for processing, in which case a decision will be rendered as soon as possible but not later than 120 days after the appeal is received. The claimant will be given the opportunity to review pertinent documents or materials upon submission of a written request to the Benefits Administration Committee or named fiduciary, provided the Benefits Administration Committee or named fiduciary finds the requested documents or materials are pertinent to the appeal.
On the basis of its review, the Benefits Administration Committee or named fiduciary will make an independent determination of the claimant's eligibility for benefits under the Plan. The decision of the Benefits Administration Committee or named fiduciary on any claim for benefits will be final and conclusive upon all parties thereto. In the event the Benefits Administration Committee or named fiduciary denies an appeal in whole or in part, it will give written notice of the decision to the claimant, which notice will set forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant the specific reasons for such denial and which will make specific reference to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision was based.
 
 
The following amendment adding Article X to the Plan was adopted on December 6, 2005, effective as of January 1, 2005:
(1)
  
Priority over Other Provisions
: The provisions set forth in this Article will supersede any conflicting provisions of the Plan.
(2)
  
Termination of Participation
: Any amount subject to Code section 409A paid to a Participant during 2005 that would otherwise violate the requirements of Code section 409A(a)(2), (3), or (4) will be treated as a distribution in termination of the Participants participation in the Plan within the meaning of IRS Notice 2005-1, Q&A-20. The amounts subject to termination will be includible in the Participants income in calendar year 2005. This paragraph applies to (i) payments in 2005 to a specified employee, as that term is defined in Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i), within six months after the date of the Participants separation from service, as that term is defined by the Secretary; (ii) payments in 2005 pursuant to the election of the installment option under paragraph (3) of Article V; and (iii) any other payments in 2005 otherwise in violation of Code section 409A(a)(2), (3), or (4).
(3)
  
Change in Payment Elections or Conditions on or Before December 31, 2006
: With respect to amounts subject to Code section 409A, a Participant may make a new payment election on or before December 31, 2006, as permitted by the preamble to the Proposed Regulations; and the election will not be treated as a change in the timing and form of payment under Code section 409A(a)(4) or an acceleration of a payment under Code section 409A(a)(3); provided, however, that a participant cannot in 2006 change payment elections with respect to payments that the Participant would otherwise receive in 2006, or cause payments to be made in 2006. Any election made by a Participant on or before December 31, 2006 (including an election made before January 1, 2005) that applies to an amount accrued under the Plan subject to Code section 409A will be treated as a new election under this paragraph unless an election in 2006 would apply to amounts that otherwise would be payable in 2006.
The following amendment to paragraph (3) of Article X of the Plan was adopted on December 12, 2006, effective as of December 31, 2006:
(3)
 
Change in Payment Elections or Conditions on or Before December 31, 2007
: With respect to amounts subject to Code section 409A, a Participant may make a new payment election on or before December 31, 2007, as permitted by IRS Notice 2006-79; and the election will not be treated as a change in the timing and form of payment under Code section 409A(a)(4) or an acceleration of a payment under Code section 409A(a)(3); provided, however, that a Participant cannot in 2006 or 2007 change payment elections with respect to payments that the Participant would otherwise receive in 2006 or 2007, respectively, or cause payments to be made in 2006 or 2007, respectively. Any election made by a Participant on or before December 31, 2007 (including an election made before January 1, 2005) that applies to an amount accrued under the Plan subject to Code section 409A will be treated as a new election under this paragraph unless an election in 2006 or 2007 would apply to amounts that otherwise would be payable in 2006 or 2007, respectively.
The following amendments to Article I of the Plan were adopted on December 12, 2006, effective for distributions commencing after December 31, 2006:
Pension Benefit
: The monthly benefit that is payable to a Participant pursuant to the provisions of the Pension Plan in the form of a single-life, no-death-benefit annuity, assuming the Participant's benefit commencement date under the Pension Plan is the first day of the month immediately following the date of the Participant's Separation from Service; provided, however, that the applicable terms of the Pension Plan as in effect on
 
October 3, 2004, are to be applied in calculating the monthly benefit earned and vested under the Pension Plan as of December 31, 2004, and to which the Participant had a legally binding right.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.6
1.
 
 
Purpose of Program.
The purpose of this Management Incentive Compensation Program ("Program") is to continue in effect a fundamental policy which has been an important factor in the growth and success of J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc., and its divisions and subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company"). That policy is to base a substantial part of the compensation of management employees ("associates") of the Company holding positions of responsibility upon the operating results of the Company which such associates help to create. Those associates will be paid reasonable fixed salaries, but because their aggregate yearly remuneration may be affected substantially by variations in the operating results of the Company, they will have a direct incentive to put forth their best efforts for the development and growth of the Company. Parent Company means J.C. Penney Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor corporation.
2.
 
 
Structure of Program.
The Program shall consist of separate incentive compensation plans ("plan" or "plans") for the following groups of management associates: JCPenney Stores, Merchandising, JCPenney Direct, Logistics, and Home Office support areas. The Board of Directors of the Company ("Board of Directors" or Board") or its delegate may from time to time authorize additional plans to be included in the Program or the consolidation of plans that are in the Program.
The Program and all plans shall be administered by, or under the direction of, a committee ("Committee") of the Board of Directors of the Parent Company consisting of not less than three Board members who are not, and who have not within the year prior to such service on the Committee been, eligible to participate in any plan or the Program. The Committee shall have plenary authority to interpret the Program and the plans and to make all determinations specified in or permitted by the Program and the plans or deemed necessary or desirable for their administration or for the conduct of the Committee's business; all interpretations and determinations of the Committee may be made on an individual or group basis, and shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all interested parties; and the Committee may delegate its responsibilities under the Program and the plans to persons other than its members, subject to such terms and conditions as it shall determine.
3.
 
Participants in Plans.
Participants in a plan for any fiscal year shall be designated by the Committee. Such designation may be made and, may from time to time be changed, on an individual basis or by groups, according to job eligibility, salary, or any other method of classification deemed appropriate by the Committee, but only management associates (including those who are also directors, but excluding those who serve as directors only of the Parent Company) may be so designated by the Committee.
4.
 
Determination of Bases of Participation of Participants.
The basis on which each participant shall participate in a plan shall be determined by the Committee, and any bases so determined may be changed from time to time by such Committee.
 
 
The Committee may determine the basis on which each participant shall participate in a plan, on an individual basis or by groups, according to job eligibility, salary, or any other method of classification deemed appropriate by the Committee. The Committee may specify that such determination will continue in effect until changed by it, in which event the Committee shall not be required to make a new determination for each fiscal year.
The Board of Directors of the Parent Company shall determine the basis on which participants who are directors of the Parent Company shall participate in a plan, and from time to time may change such determination. The Board may specify that such determination shall continue in effect until changed by it, in which event the Board shall not be required to make a new determination for each fiscal year. Such initial determination and any such change shall be made only after recommendations of the Committee are considered.
5.
 
Limit on Incentive Compensation.
There are no limits on the total amount of incentive compensation payable with respect to the Program for any fiscal year.
 
6.
 
Determination and Payments of Incentive Compensation.
The method for determining incentive compensation payable with respect to any plan and the Program for any fiscal year shall be prescribed by the Committee, and may be changed from time to time.
 
The amount of incentive compensation payable under the plans shall be computed in accordance with the determinations of the Committee, and shall be paid on the basis of such computation. The Committee shall adopt such rules and procedures as it shall deem necessary or desirable in order that the amounts paid under the Program be verified, and such verification be submitted to the Board of Directors of the Parent Company for its approval. Such verified amounts, when approved by the Board shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all interested parties, including the Company and the plan participants.
The amount of incentive compensation payable under the Program for a fiscal year will be paid through payroll in a lump sum within two and one-half months after that fiscal year ends.
  Except as provided below, the Board of Directors of the Parent Company shall have the power to construe, interpret, administer, amend, modify, suspend and terminate the Program or any plan established under the Program.
7.
Termination and Amendment of Plans and Program.
 
The Program or any plan established under the Program may be amended at any time, provided however, any modification, suspension, amendment or termination within one year before or two years after a Change in Control may not be made if it would have an adverse effect on the Participants eligibility, benefits and/or rights under the Program
 
or any plan established under the Program, except as may be otherwise required to comply with changes in applicable laws or regulations.
For the purposes of this section the following definitions apply.
Board
means the Board of Directors of J.C. Penney Company, Inc.
 
Change in Control
means the occurrence of any of the following events:
 
 
(1)  for purposes of this Section (i)(1), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (A) any acquisition of Voting Stock of the Company or Corporation directly from the Company or Corporation that is approved by a majority of the Incumbent Directors, (B) any acquisition of Voting Stock of the Company or Corporation by the Company or any Subsidiary, (C) any acquisition of
Voting Stock of the Company or Corporation by the trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary, and (D) any acquisition of Voting Stock of the Company or Corporation by any Person pursuant to a Business Transaction that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of Section (iii) below;
 
 
(2)  if any Person becomes the beneficial owner of 20% or more of combined voting power of the then-outstanding Voting Stock of the Company or Corporation as a result of a transaction described in clause (A) of Section (i)(1) above and such Person thereafter becomes the beneficial owner of any additional shares of Voting Stock of the Company or Corporation representing 1% or more of the then-outstanding Voting Stock of the Company or Corporation, other than in an acquisition directly from the Company or Corporation that is approved by a majority of the Incumbent Directors or other than as a result of a stock dividend, stock split or similar transaction effected by the Company or Corporation in which all holders of Voting Stock are treated equally, such subsequent acquisition shall be treated as a Change in Control;
 
(3)  a Change in Control will not be deemed to have occurred if a Person becomes the beneficial owner of 20% or more of the Voting Stock of the Company or Corporation as a result of a reduction in the number of shares of Voting Stock of the Company or Corporation outstanding pursuant to a transaction or series of transactions that is approved by a majority of the Incumbent Directors unless and until such Person thereafter becomes the beneficial owner of any additional shares of Voting Stock of the Company or Corporation representing 1% or more of the then-outstanding Voting Stock of the Company or Corporation, other than as a result of a stock dividend, stock split or similar transaction effected by the Company or Corporation in which all holders of Voting Stock are treated equally; and
 
(4)  if at least a majority of the Incumbent Directors determine in good faith that a Person has acquired beneficial ownership of 20% or more of the Voting Stock of
 
 
the Company or Corporation inadvertently, and such Person divests as promptly as practicable but no later than the date, if any, set by the Incumbent Directors a sufficient number of shares so that such Person beneficially owns less than 20% of the Voting Stock of the Company or Corporation, then no Change in Control shall have occurred as a result of such Persons acquisition; or
 
 
 
 
 
more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of Voting Stock of the entity resulting from such Business Transaction, and (C) at least a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the entity resulting from such Business Transaction were Incumbent Directors at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board providing for such Business Transaction; or
 
 
Company
shall mean J. C. Penney Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor company.
Corporation
shall mean J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor company.
Exchange Act
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder. Reference to any section or subsection of the Exchange Act includes reference to any comparable or succeeding provisions of any legislation that amends, supplements or replaces such section or subsection.
Incumbent Directors
means the individuals who, as of the Effective Date hereof, are Directors of the Company or the Corporation, as the context requires, and any individual becoming a Director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, nomination for election by the Companys or Corporations stockholders, or appointment, was approved
 
 
 
 
by a vote of at least two-thirds of the then Incumbent Directors (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without objection to such nomination);
provided
,
however
, that an individual shall not be an Incumbent Director if such individuals election or appointment to the Board occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (as described in Rule 14a-12(c) of the Exchange Act) with respect to the election or removal of Directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board.
 
Subsidiary
shall mean any entity in which the Company, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns 50% or more of the Voting Stock.
Voting Stock
means securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.
 
8.
 
Effective Date.
The amended and restated Program shall be effective at 11:59 P.M. on December 31, 2007.
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Change in Control Plan (the "Plan") consists primarily of (i) severance benefits, (ii) additional cash benefits after termination of employment to be paid outside of the Corporations non-qualified retirement plans and (iii) a cash amount payable at Employment Termination equal to the Corporations cost of health and welfare benefits the associate participated in immediately prior to the Change in Control. The purpose and intent of the Plan is to attract and retain key associates and to improve associate productivity by reducing distractions resulting from a potential Change in Control situation, all of which are in the best interest of the Corporation, and J.C. Penney Company, Inc. and its stockholders.
Capitalized terms used throughout the Plan have the meanings set forth in Article Two except as otherwise defined in the Plan, or the context clearly requires otherwise.
 
The Plan is intended to be a plan providing Severance Pay and certain other benefits following a Change in Control. The Plan is intended to be a top hat plan for a select group of management or highly compensated executives, subject only to the administration and enforcement provisions of ERISA.
To the extent applicable, it is intended that portions of this Plan either comply with or be exempt from the provisions of Code Section 409A. This Plan shall be administered in a manner consistent with this intent and any provision that would cause this Plan to fail to either comply with or be exempt from Code Section 409A, as the case may be, shall have no force and effect.
This document, including any Appendix hereto, and any documents incorporated by reference set forth the provisions of the Plan effective as of the Effective Date, except as otherwise provided herein.
 
The Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board (Committee) shall administer the Plan, provided, however, that none of the members of the Committee will be a Participant. The powers and duties of the Committee in administering the Plan are set forth in Article Six.
Accounting Firm
means a nationally recognized accounting firm, or actuarial, benefits or compensation consulting firm, (with experience in performing the calculations regarding the applicability of Section 280G of the Code and of the tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code) selected by a Participant in his/her sole discretion.
Board
means the Board of Directors of J.C. Penney Company, Inc.
 
Change in Control
means the occurrence of any of the following events:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Code
shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and the proposed, temporary and final regulations promulgated thereunder. Reference to any section or subsection of the Code includes reference to any comparable or succeeding provisions of any legislation that amends, supplements or replaces such section or subsection.
Company
shall mean J. C. Penney Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor company.
Compensation
shall mean the annual base salary rate of a Participant, plus the Participants target annual incentive compensation (at $1.00 per unit), under the Corporation's Management Incentive Compensation Plan (or any successor plans thereto) for the fiscal year, all at the greater of the amount in effect on the date of the Change in Control or as of his/her Employment Termination date. As applied to a Participant employed by an affiliate or Subsidiary of the Corporation, Compensation shall include the same elements of pay to the extent the affiliate or Subsidiary maintains similar or comparable pay arrangements.
Corporation
shall mean J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor company.
Effective Date
shall mean December 31, 2007 at 11:59 P.M.
Employment Termination
shall be deemed to have occurred when a Participant has a Separation from Service within two years after a Change in Control (or prior to a Change in Control if the Participant has reasonably demonstrated that such termination of employment (i) was at the request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change in Control, or (ii) otherwise arose in connection with or in anticipation of a Change in Control) because of either a Separation from Service for Good Reason or an Involuntary Separation from Service other than as a result of a Summary Dismissal. An Employment Termination shall not include a termination by reason of the Participants death, disability, voluntary quit other than a Separation from Service for Good Reason, or Normal Retirement.
 
ERISA
shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder. Reference to any section or subsection of ERISA includes reference to any comparable or succeeding provisions of any legislation that amends, supplements or replaces such section or subsection.
 
Exchange Act
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder. Reference to any section or subsection of the Exchange Act includes reference to any comparable or succeeding provisions of any legislation that amends, supplements or replaces such section or subsection.
Excise Tax
shall mean, collectively, (i) the tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code by reason of being contingent on a change in ownership or control of the Company, within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code, or (ii) any similar tax imposed by state or local law, or (iii) any interest or penalties with respect to any excise tax described in clause (i) or (ii).
Good Reason
 
within the meaning of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section
1.409A-1(n)(2)(i)
or any successor thereto
, shall mean a condition resulting from any of the actions listed below taken by a Service Recipient, without the consent of the Participant, directed at a Participant:
(a) a material decrease in salary or incentive compensation opportunity (the amount paid at target as a percentage of salary under the Corporations Management Incentive Compensation Program) as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control, or
   
(b) failure by the Service Recipient to pay the Participant a material portion of his/her current base salary, or incentive compensation within seven days of its due date, or
   
(c)  a material adverse change in reporting responsibilities, duties, or authority as compared with pre-Change in Control responsibilities, duties, or authority, or
   
(d) a material diminution in the authority, duties, or responsibilities of the supervisor to whom the Participant is required to report, including a requirement that a Participant report to a corporate officer or employee instead of reporting directly to the Board of the Corporation, or
   
(e) a material diminution in the budget over which the Participant retains authority as compared to the pre-Change in Control budget, or
   
(f)  the Service Recipient requires the Participant to have the Participants principal location of work changed to a location more than 50 miles from the location thereof immediately prior to the Change in Control, or
   
(g)  discontinuance of any material paid time off policy, fringe benefit, welfare benefit, incentive compensation, equity compensation, or retirement plan (without substantially equivalent compensating remuneration or a plan or policy providing substantially similar benefits) in which the Participant participates or any action that materially reduces such Participants benefits or payments under such plans, as in effect immediately before the Change in Control.
   
Provided, however, that the Participant must provide notice to the Corporation of the existence of the condition described above within 90 days of the initial existence of the condition, upon the notice of which the Corporation will have 30 days during which it or a Service Recipient may remedy the condition and not be required to pay any amount owed under this Plan. Any Separation from Service as a result of a Good Reason condition must occur within two years of the initial existence of the condition in order for benefits to be due under this Plan. A Separation from Service for Good Reason will be treated as an Involuntary Separation from Service for purposes of this Plan.
Gross-Up Payment
 
within the meaning of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section
1.409A-3(i)(1)(v)
or any successor thereto
, means a payment to reimburse the Participant in an amount equal to all or a designated portion of the Federal, state, local, or foreign taxes imposed upon the Participant as a result of compensation paid or made available to the Participant by the Service Recipient, including the amount of additional taxes imposed upon the Participant due to the Service Recipient's payment of the initial taxes on such compensation.
Incumbent Directors
means the individuals who, as of the Effective Date hereof, are Directors of the Company or the Corporation, as the context requires, and any individual becoming a Director subsequent to the date
hereof whose election, nomination for election by the Companys or Corporations stockholders, or appointment, was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the then Incumbent Directors (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without objection to such nomination);
provided
,
however
, that an individual shall not be an Incumbent Director if such individuals election or appointment to the Board occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (as described in Rule 14a-12(c) of the Exchange Act) with respect to the election or removal of Directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board.
 
Involuntary Separation from Service
shall mean Separation from Service due to the independent exercise of the unilateral authority of the Service Recipient to terminate the Participant's services, other than due to the Participants implicit or explicit request, where the Participant was willing and able to continue performing services
, within the meaning of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(n)(1) or any successor thereto.
 
Normal Retirement
shall mean retirement at or after a Participants normal retirement date as determined in accordance with the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Pension Plan as in effect immediately prior to a Change in Control.
 
Participant
shall mean each person appointed by the Board to the Executive Board allowing them to participate in the Plan as provided in Article Three and who continues to be an Executive Board member immediately prior to a Change in Control.
Participating Employer
shall mean the Corporation and any
Subsidiary or affiliate of the Corporation which is designated as a Participating Employer under the Plan by the Board, excluding, however, any division of the Corporation or of a Subsidiary or affiliate that is designated by the Board as ineligible to participate in the Plan. Appendix I contains a list of the Participating Employers currently participating in the Plan that have adopted the Plan pursuant to Article Six.
Separation from Service
within the meaning of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(h) or any successor thereto,
shall mean
the date a Participant retires, dies or otherwise has a termination of employment with the Service Recipient. In accordance with Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(h) or any successor thereto, if a Participant is on a period of leave that exceeds six months and the Participant does not retain a right to reemployment under an applicable statute or by contract, the employment relationship is deemed to terminate on the first date immediately following such six-month period, and also, a Participant is presumed to have a Separation from Service where the level of bona fide services performed
(whether as an employee or an independent contractor) decreases to a level equal to 20 percent or less of the average level of services performed (whether as an employee or an independent contractor) by the Participant during the immediately preceding 36-month period (or the full period of service to the Service Recipient if the employee has been providing services for less than the 36-month period).
Service Recipient
shall mean the Corporation
or any successor thereto,
for whom the services are performed and with respect to whom the legally binding right to compensation arises, and all persons with whom the Corporation would be considered a single employer under Code section 414(b) (employees of controlled group of corporations), and all persons with whom the Corporation would be considered a single employer under Code section 414(c) (employees of partnerships, proprietorships, etc., under common control), using the at least 50 percent ownership standard,
within the meaning of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(h)(3) or any successor thereto.
Severance Pay
shall mean the cash severance payments payable to a Participant pursuant to Section 4.01 of the Plan.
Severance Benefits
shall mean Severance Pay and the other benefits described in Article Four of the Plan payable to a Participant.
Subsidiary
shall mean any entity in which the Company, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns 50% or more of the Voting Stock.
Summary Dismissal
shall mean a termination due to:
(a)
 
any willful or negligent material violation of any applicable securities laws (including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002);
(b)
 
any intentional act of fraud or embezzlement from the Corporation or Company;
(c)
 
a conviction of or entering into a plea of nolo contendere to a felony that occurs during or in the course of the Participants employment with the Corporation;
(d)
 
any breach of a written covenant or agreement with the Corporation, which is material and which is not cured within 30 days after written notice thereof from the Corporation; and
(e)
 
willful and continued failure of the Participant to substantially perform his/her duties for the Corporation (other than as a result of incapacity due to physical or mental illness) or to materially comply with Corporation or
Company policy after written notice, in either case, from the Corporation and a 30-day opportunity to cure.
For purposes hereof, an act, or failure to act, shall not be deemed to be willful or intentional unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Participant in bad faith or without a reasonable belief that the action or omission was in the best interests of the Corporation.
Voting Stock
means securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.
 
3.01       
Eligibility on the Effective Date
Each person who has been appointed to the Executive Board of the Corporation (Executive Board) by the Board as of the Effective Date will be a Participant in the Plan.
3.02       
Future Eligibility
Each person who is appointed to the Executive Board by the Board after the Effective Date and prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control will be a Participant in the Plan.
4.01     
Severance Pay
Upon an Employment Termination, a Participant shall become entitled to Severance Pay in accordance with the following schedule.
 
Severance Pay will be computed by multiplying the Participants Compensation times the number of years (including any fraction of a year) in the Participants Severance Pay Period, plus a cash amount equal to the aggregate Corporations premium cost for active associate medical, dental and life insurance coverage, if any, provided to the Participant on the date of the Change in Control, or if higher, the amount in effect at Employment Termination, times the number of years (including any fraction of a year) in the Severance Pay Period. Such lump sum Corporation contribution toward medical, dental and life insurance coverage for the Severance Pay Period will be grossed-up for federal income taxes using the applicable federal income tax rate that applied to the Participant for his/her prior years Compensation. To the extent applicable, Severance Pay will be reduced as provided in Section 4.09(g) hereof.
Severance Pay shall be paid in a lump sum within 30 days after Employment Termination.
In the event a Participant is entitled to any cash severance payments that are payable in the event of termination of employment pursuant to a written contract ("contract payments") between the Participant and the Corporation or an affiliate or Subsidiary, Severance Pay otherwise payable to the Participant under this Section 4.01 shall be reduced by the amount of such contract payments. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant receives payments and benefits pursuant to this Section 4.01, the Participant shall not be entitled to any severance pay or benefits under any severance plan, program or policy of the Company or an affiliate or Subsidiary, unless otherwise specifically provided therein in a specific reference to this Plan.
4.02          
Prorated Incentive Compensation
 
A Participant who is covered under the Corporations Management Incentive Compensation Program (or any successor plan thereto) and who becomes entitled to Severance Pay under this Plan shall be paid a lump sum equal to the Participants pro-rated target annual incentive compensation (at $1.00 per unit), under the Corporation's Management Incentive Compensation Program for the fiscal year; provided, however, if the Employment Termination occurs on the last day of the Corporations fiscal year the Participant shall be paid the higher of (a) target annual incentive compensation (at $1.00 per unit) or (b) the actual annual incentive compensation earned under the Corporations Management Incentive Compensation Program. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant has elected to defer under the Corporations Mirror Savings Plan (or any successor plan thereto) a portion of the annual incentive to be paid under the Corporations Management Incentive Compensation Program for the fiscal year, then that portion of the prorated incentive compensation will be deferred and paid in accordance with the terms of the Corporations Mirror Savings Plan, and the remaining portion of the prorated incentive compensation will be paid in a lump sum under this Section. To the extent applicable, prorated incentive compensation will be reduced as provided in Section 4.09(g) hereof. Such lump sum to be paid with the Severance Pay payable under Section 4.01.
4.03          
Retiree Medical, Dental, Gold Card, and Long Term Care Eligibility
termination resulting from a reduction in force would receive under the terms of such plan. Retiree life insurance benefits shall be paid solely from the insurance policy or policies provided under said plan.
4.05          
Non-Qualified Retirement Plans
If a Participant becomes entitled to Severance Pay under this Plan he/she will receive an immediate lump sum payment within 30 days after Employment Termination, of any incremental benefit provided outside the terms of the applicable retirement plan calculated as follows, subject to any reduction provided for under Section 4.09(g) hereof, if he/she,
is a participant in the Corporations Mirror Savings Plan, or was a participant immediately prior to such plans termination following a change in control as defined in Section 4.09(h) of this Plan, he/she will receive an incremental benefit equal to the Corporations match under such plan for each year in the Participants Severance Pay Period, and assuming the same Corporation contribution rate as in effect at the time of the Change in Control to provide him/her with the highest benefit available using his Compensation for each year of the Severance Pay Period and using his/her election in effect immediately prior to such plans termination date or his/her Employment Termination, as applicable, to determine his/her contribution and the Corporations matching contribution as though the entire amount of his/her incremental matching contribution benefit were provided under such plan and then offsetting the amount of match actually paid under the Corporations Mirror Savings Plan as a result of the vesting of matching contributions under such plan;
provided, however, that if and to the extent a Participant is otherwise entitled to receive any additional age and/or service credit under any such plan as a result of Employment Termination, the additional age and/or service credit otherwise provided under this Section 4.05 shall not be counted twice for purposes of determining eligibility.
4.06          
Legal Fees
All expenses of a Participant incurred in enforcing his/her rights and/or to recover his/her benefits under this Article Four, including but not limited to, attorney's fees, court costs, arbitration costs, and other expenses shall be paid by the Corporation, in accordance with Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(1)(iv)(A)
or any successor thereto and
shall meet the requirements below. The Corporation shall reimburse the Participant for any such fees, costs or expenses, promptly upon delivery of reasonable documentation, provided, however, all invoices for reimbursement of fees, costs or expenses must be submitted to the Corporation and paid in a lump sum payment by the end of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the fee, cost or expense was incurred. To be eligible for reimbursement, all fees, costs or expenses must be incurred within a 20 year period following the latest of a change in control (as defined in Section 4.09(h)), a Change in Control, or Employment Termination. The amount of fees, costs or expenses paid or eligible for reimbursement in one year under this Section 4.06 shall not affect the fees, costs or expenses paid or eligible for reimbursement in any other taxable year. The right to payment or reimbursement under this Section 4.06 is not subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
4.07          
Outplacement Services/Financial Counseling
Following an Employment Termination, a Participant will be paid a lump sum payment in cash of $25,000 to allow the Participant to pay for outplacement and financial counseling services. To the extent applicable, the benefit will be reduced as provided in Section 4.09(g) hereof. Such lump sum will be paid with the Severance Pay payable under Section 4.01.
4.08         
Special Bonus Hours
In the event of an Employment Termination, a Participant will be paid for Special Bonus Hours, if he/she is also a participant in the Paid Time Off Policy (PTO Policy) the same as any other involuntary termination resulting from a reduction in force would receive under the terms of the PTO Policy. Such payment will be determined in accordance with the provisions of the PTO Policy and paid within 30 days after the Participants Employment Termination date.
4.09         
Gross-Up Payments To Make Participants Whole if Excise Tax Applies
 
Anything in the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, but subject to paragraph (g) below, if it shall be determined (as hereafter provided) that any payment or distribution by the Corporation or an affiliate or Subsidiary to or for the benefit of the Participant, whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of the Plan or otherwise pursuant to or by reason of any other agreement, policy, plan, program or arrangement, including without limitation any stock option, stock appreciation right or similar right, or the lapse or termination of any restriction on or the vesting or exercisability of any of the foregoing (a Payment), would be subject to the Excise Tax, then the Participant shall be entitled to receive a Gross-Up Payment in an amount such that, after payment by the Participant of all taxes (including any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes other than interest and penalties imposed by reason of the Employees failure to timely file a tax return or pay taxes shown due on his/her return), including any Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Participant retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments. No Gross-Up Payment will be made with respect to the Excise Tax, if any, attributable to (a) any incentive stock option, as defined by Section 422 of the Code (ISO) granted prior to the commencement of a Participants eligibility under the Plan (unless a comparable Gross-Up Payment has theretofore been made available with respect to such option), or (b) any stock appreciation or similar right, whether or not limited, granted in tandem with any ISO described in clause (a) above. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 4.09, the Corporation may, in its sole discretion, withhold and pay over to the Internal Revenue Service or any other applicable taxing authority, for the benefit of the Participant, all or any portion
of any Gross-Up Payment, and by receiving Severance Pay or Severance Benefits under this Plan, the Participant hereby consents to such withholding.
(a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (e) hereof, all determinations required to be made under Section 4.09 of the Plan, including whether an Excise Tax is payable by the Participant and the amount of such Excise Tax and whether a Gross-Up Payment is required to be paid by the Corporation to the Participant and the amount of such Gross-Up Payment, shall be made by the Accounting Firm. The Accounting Firm shall make an initial determination at the time of a change in control (as defined in Section 4.09(h)) of any Gross-Up Payment required to be paid taking into account current payments and estimated future payments that might affect the amount of the Gross-Up Payment. In addition, the Participant shall direct the Accounting Firm to submit its determination and detailed supporting calculations to both the Corporation and the Participant within 15 calendar days after the date of the Participants Employment Termination, if applicable, and any other such time or times as may be requested by the Corporation or the Participant; notwithstanding the foregoing, the first two Gross-Up Payments, if otherwise required, shall be made at a time and manner specified in Section 4.09(i) hereof in relation to a change in control (as defined in Section 4.09(h) hereof) and the Employment Termination of the Participant, if applicable. If the Accounting Firm determines that any Excise Tax is payable by the Participant, the Corporation shall pay the required Gross-Up Payment to the Participant within five business days after the receipt of such determination and calculations. If the Accounting Firm determines that no Excise Tax is payable by the Participant, it shall, at the same time as it makes such determination, furnish the Participant with an opinion that he/she has substantial authority not to report any Excise Tax on his/her federal, state, local income or other tax return. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 and other applicable provisions of the Code (or any successor provisions thereto) and the possibility of similar uncertainty regarding applicable state or local tax law at the time of any determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments that shall not have been made by the Corporation should have been made (an Underpayment), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event that the Corporation exhausts or fails to pursue its remedies pursuant to paragraph (e) hereof and the Participant thereafter is required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Participant shall direct the Accounting Firm to determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and to submit its determination and detailed supporting calculations to both the Corporation and the Participant as promptly as possible. Any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Corporation to, or for the benefit of, the Participant within five business days after receipt of such determination and calculations, provided, however, any Underpayment will be paid or reimbursed only in the time and manner specified in Section 4.09(i) hereof.
(b) The Corporation and the Participant shall each provide the Accounting Firm access to and copies of any books, records and documents in the possession of the Corporation or the Participant, as the case may be, reasonably requested by the Accounting Firm, and otherwise cooperate with the Accounting Firm in connection with the preparation and issuance of the determination contemplated by paragraph (a) hereof. Any reasonable determination by the Accounting Firm as the amount of the Gross-Up Payment (and supported by the calculations done by the Accounting Firm) shall be binding upon the Corporation and the Participant.
(c) The federal, state and local income or other tax returns filed by the Participant shall be prepared and filed on a consistent basis with the determination of the Accounting Firm with respect to the Excise Tax, if any, payable by the Participant. The Participant shall make proper payment of the amount of any Excise Tax, and at the request of the Corporation, provide to the Corporation true and correct copies (with any amendments) of his/her federal income tax return as filed with the Internal Revenue Service and corresponding state and local tax returns, if relevant, as filed with the applicable taxing authority, and such other documents reasonably requested by the Corporation, evidencing such payment. If prior to the filing of Participants Federal income tax return, or corresponding state or local tax return, if relevant, the Accounting Firm determines that the amount of the Gross-Up Payment should be reduced, the Participant shall within five business days pay to the Corporation the amount of such reduction.
(d) The fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm for its services in connection with the determinations and calculations contemplated by paragraphs (a) and (c) hereof shall be borne by the Corporation. If such fees and expenses are initially paid by the Participant, the Corporation shall reimburse the Participant the full amount of such fees and expenses within five business days after receipt from the Participant of a statement therefore and reasonable evidence of his/her payment thereof. Any reimbursement or payment of such fees and expenses will be made by the Corporation in accordance with Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(1)(iv)(A)
or any successor thereto
and shall meet the requirements below. The Corporation shall reimburse the Participant for any such fees and expenses, promptly upon delivery of reasonable documentation, provided, however, all invoices for reimbursement of fees and expenses must be submitted to the Corporation and paid in a lump sum payment by the end of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the fee or expense was incurred. To be eligible, all fees and expenses must be incurred within a 20 year period following the latest of a change in control (as defined n Section 4.09(h), a Change in Control, or Employment Termination. The amount of fees and expenses paid or eligible for reimbursement in one year under this Section 4.09(d) shall not affect the fees and expenses paid or eligible for reimbursement in any other taxable year. The right to payment or
reimbursement under this Section 4.09(d) is not subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
(e) The Participant shall notify the Corporation in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, would require the payment by the Corporation of a Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given as promptly as practicable but no later than 10 business days after the Participant actually receives notice of such claim and the Participant shall further apprise the Corporation of the nature of such claim and the date on which such claim is requested to be paid (in each case, to the extent known by the Participant). The Participant shall not pay such claim prior to the earlier of (i) the expiration of the 30-calendar-day period following the date on which he gives such notice to the Corporation and (ii) the date that any payment of amount with respect to such claim is due. If the Corporation notifies the Participant in writing prior to the expiration of such period that it desires to contest such claim, the Participant shall:
(1) provide the Corporation with any written records or documents in his/her possession relating to such claim reasonably requested by the Corporation;
(2) take such action in connection with contesting such claim as the Corporation shall reasonably request in writing from time to time, including without limitation accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney competent in respect to the subject matter and reasonably selected by the Corporation;
(3) cooperate with the Corporation in good faith in order effectively to contest such claim; and
(4) permit the Corporation to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim;
provided, however, that the Corporation shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and shall reimburse and hold harmless the Participant, on an after-tax basis, for and against any Excise Tax or income tax, including interest and penalties with respect thereto, imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses, all such taxes, costs and expenses will be reimbursed as specified in Section 4.09(i). Without limiting the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (e), the Corporation shall control all proceedings taken in connection with the contest of any claim contemplated by this paragraph (e) and, at its sole option, may pursue or forego any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the taxing authority in respect of such claim (provided, however, that the Participant may participate therein at his/her own cost and expense) and may, at its option,
either direct the Participant to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner, and the Participant agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as the Corporation shall determine; provided, however, that if the Corporation directs the Participant to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund, the Corporation shall pay to the Participant the amount of such tax (including interest and penalties) and shall reimburse and hold the Participant harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax or directly related income tax or other tax, including interest or penalties imposed with respect to such payment, all such taxes, costs and expenses will be reimbursed as specified in Section 4.09(i); and provided further, however, that any extension of the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of the Participant with respect to which the contested amount is claimed to be due is limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, the Corporations control of any such contested claim shall be limited to issues with respect to which a Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder and the Participant shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority.
(f) If the Participant receives any refund with respect to such contested claim filed at the Corporations request under paragraph (e), the Participant shall (subject to the Corporations complying with the requirements of paragraph (e) hereof) promptly pay to the Corporation the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after any taxes applicable thereto). If a determination is made that the Participant shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim and the Corporation does not notify the Participant in writing of its intent to contest such denial prior to the expiration of 30 calendar days after such determination, then the amount paid to the Participant by the Corporation as provided in paragraph (e) shall be in full satisfaction of the Corporations Gross-Up Payment obligation.
(g)
 
Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, but giving effect to any redetermination of the amount of Gross-Up Payments otherwise required by this Section 4.09, if (1) but for this sentence, the Corporation would be obligated to make a Gross-Up Payment to the Participant and (2) the aggregate present value of the parachute payments to be paid or provided to the Participant under this Plan or otherwise does not exceed 1.10 multiplied by 2.99 times the Participants base amount, then the payments and benefits to be paid or provided under this Plan will be reduced (or repaid to the Corporation, if previously paid or provided) to the minimum extent necessary so that no portion of any payment or benefit to the Participant, as so reduced or repaid, constitutes an excess parachute payment. For purposes of this paragraph (g), the terms excess parachute payment, present value, parachute payment, and base amount will have the meanings assigned to them by Section 280G of the Code. The
determination of whether any reduction in or repayment of such payments or benefits to be provided under this Plan is required pursuant to this paragraph (g) will be made at the expense of the Corporation, if requested by the Participant or the Corporation, by the Accounting Firm. Appropriate adjustments will be made to amounts previously paid to the Participant, or to amounts not paid pursuant to this paragraph (g), as the case may be, to reflect properly a subsequent determination that the Participant owes more or less Excise Tax than the amount previously determined to be due. In the event that any payment or benefit is required to be reduced or repaid pursuant to this paragraph (g), reductions will be made, to the extent necessary, to any payments otherwise owed to the Participant under Sections 4.01, 4.02 (excluding any amount elected to be deferred under the Corporations Mirror Savings Plan), 4.05 and 4.07 of the Plan (to the extent not previously paid). In the event that additional amounts are owed to the Corporation after the imposition of any such reductions, the Participant shall be required to repay to the Corporation the additional amount owed within 30 days of the determination being made by the Accounting Firm.
(h)
Change in Control
as used in Sections 4.09(a) and (d) shall mean a Change in Control within the meaning of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(5), or its successor, including a change in the ownership of the corporation, a change in the effective control of the corporation, or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the corporation as such events are defined in Treasury Regulation sections 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v), (vi), and (vii). For this purpose, corporation has the meaning given in Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(ii), or its successor.
(i) To the extent applicable, in accordance with Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(1)(v)
or any successor thereto
, all Gross-Up Payments or Excise Tax reimbursements made under this Section 4.09 shall be paid to or on behalf of the Participant by the end of the Participants taxable year following the Participants taxable year in which the Excise Tax or directly related income tax or other tax, including interest or penalties, was paid to the taxing authority. In addition, a right to the reimbursement of expenses incurred due to a tax audit or litigation addressing the existence or amount of a tax liability, whether Federal, state, local or foreign, will be reimbursed or the payment made by the end of the Participants taxable year following the Participants taxable year in which the taxes that are subject to the audit or litigation are remitted to the taxing authority or where as a result of such audit or litigation no taxes are remitted, the year in which the audit is completed or there is a final and nonappealable settlement or other resolution of the litigation.
5.01         
Amendment
The Plan may be amended by the Board at any time; provided, however, that
(a)
  
any amendment which would have an adverse effect on any Participants Plan benefits and/or rights, except as may be otherwise required to comply with changes in applicable laws or regulations, including, but not limited to, Code Section 409A, or
(b)
  
any amendment within one year before or two years after a Change in Control,
cannot be applied to any Participant who would be adversely affected by such amendment without such Participants consent. After a Change in Control, any amendment shall also require the consent of the Committee.
 
5.02         
Termination
The Plan shall continue indefinitely after the Effective Date, unless the Board shall decide to terminate the Plan by duly adopting resolutions terminating the Plan; provided, however, following the commencement of any discussion with a third party that ultimately results in a Change in Control, the Plan shall continue subject to Section 5.01, until such time as the Corporation and each affiliate or Subsidiary (as appropriate) shall have fully performed all of their obligations under the Plan with respect to all Participants, and shall have paid all Severance Benefits under the Plan in full to all Participants.
6.01          
Participant Rights
The Corporation and each affiliate or Subsidiary intend this Plan to constitute a legally enforceable obligation between (a) the Corporation or an affiliate or Subsidiary (as appropriate) and (b) each Participant.
It is also intended that the Plan shall confer vested and non-forfeitable rights for each Participant to receive benefits to which the Participant is entitled under the terms of the Plan with Participants being third party beneficiaries.
Except as provided in the definitions of Summary Dismissal or Good Reason, nothing in this Plan shall be construed to confer on any Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Corporation or an affiliate or Subsidiary or to affect in any way the right of the Corporation or an affiliate or Subsidiary to terminate a Participants employment without prior notice at any time for any reason or no reason.
6.02         
Authority of Committee
The Committee will administer the Plan and have the full authority and discretion necessary to accomplish that purpose, including, without limitation, the authority and discretion to: (i) resolve all questions relating to the eligibility of Executive Board members to become or continue as Participants, (ii) determine the amount of benefits, if any, payable to Participants under the Plan and determine the time and manner in which such benefits are to be paid, to either comply with or be exempt from Code Section 409A, as the case may be, (iii) engage any administrative, legal, tax, actuarial, accounting, clerical, or other services it deems appropriate in administering the Plan, (iv) construe and interpret the Plan, supply omissions from, correct deficiencies in and resolve inconsistencies or ambiguities in the language of the Plan, resolve inconsistencies or ambiguities between the provisions of this document, and adopt rules for the administration of the Plan which are not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan document and that are intended to make any benefits provided under the Plan either comply with or be exempt from Code Section 409A, as the case may be, (v) compile and maintain all records it determines to be necessary, appropriate or convenient in connection with the administration of the Plan, and (vi) resolve all questions of fact relating to any matter for which it has administrative responsibility.
The Committee shall perform all of the duties and may exercise all of the powers and discretion that the Committee deems necessary or appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan, and shall do so in a uniform, nondiscriminatory manner. Any failure by the Committee to apply any provisions of this Plan to any particular situation
shall not represent a waiver of the Committees authority to apply such provisions thereafter. Every interpretation, choice, determination or other exercise of any power or discretion given either expressly or by implication to the Committee shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties having or claiming to have an interest under the Plan or otherwise directly or indirectly affected by such action, without restriction, however, on the right of the Committee to reconsider and redetermine such action. Any decision rendered by the Committee and any review of such decision shall be limited to determining whether the decision was so arbitrary and capricious as to be an abuse of discretion. The Committee may adopt such rules and procedures for the administration of the Plan as are consistent with the terms hereof.
6.03          
Claims Procedure
A.
Allocation of Claims Responsibility:
With respect to any claim for benefits which are provided exclusively under this Plan, the claim shall be approved or denied by the Committee within 60 days following the receipt of the information necessary to process the claim. In the event the Committee denies a claim for benefits in whole or in part, it will give written notice of the decision to the claimant or the claimants authorized representative, which notice will set forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, stating the specific reasons for such denial, make specific reference to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision was based, and provide any other additional information, as applicable, required by 29 Code of Federal Regulations Section 2560.503-1 applicable to the Plan.
With respect to any claim for benefits which, under the terms of the Plan, are provided under another employee benefit plan maintained by the Corporation (i.e., life insurance, H&W Plan, PTO/MTO Policy, Pension, Savings, Mirror Savings, BRP, and SRP benefits), the Committee shall determine claims regarding the Participant's eligibility under the Plan in accordance with the preceding paragraph, but the administration of any other claim with respect to such benefits (including the amount of such benefits) shall be subject to the claims procedure specified in such other employee benefit plan or program.
B.
Litigation or Appeal
In the event the Committee denies a claim in whole or in part for benefits which are provided exclusively under the Plan, or denies a claim regarding the claimants eligibility under the Plan, Participants will then be allowed to file a lawsuit in Federal Court as provided under ERISA.
Appeals with respect to any claim for benefits which, under the terms of the Plan, are provided under another employee benefit plan maintained by the Corporation (i.e., life insurance, H&W Plan, PTO/MTO Policy, Pension, Savings, Mirror Savings, BRP, and SRP benefits), shall be subject to the claims and appeals procedure specified in such other employee benefit plan.
6.04          
Records and Reports
 
The Committee will maintain adequate records of all of their proceedings and acts and all such books of account, records, and other data as may be necessary for administration of the Plan. The Committee will make available to each Participant upon his request such of the Plan's records as pertain to him for examination at reasonable times during normal business hours.
6.05         
Reliance on Tables, Etc.
 
In administering the Plan, the Committee is entitled to the extent permitted by law to rely conclusively upon all tables, valuations, certificates, opinions and reports which are furnished by accountants, legal counsel or other experts employed or engaged by the Committee. The Committee will be fully protected in respect of any action taken or suffered by the Committee in good faith reliance upon all such tables, valuations, certificates, reports, opinions or other advice. The Committee is also entitled to rely upon any data or information furnished by a Participating Employer or by a Participant as to any information pertinent to any calculation or determination to be made under the provisions of the Plan, and, as a condition to payment of any benefit under the Plan the Committee may request a Participant to furnish such information as it deems necessary or desirable in administering the Plan.
6.06          
Availability of Plan Information and Documents
Any Participant having a question concerning the administration of the Plan or the Participant's eligibility for participation in the Plan or for the payment of benefits under the Plan may contact the Committee and request a copy of the Plan document. Each Participating Employer will keep copies of this Plan document, exhibits and amendments hereto, and any related documents on file in its administrative offices, and such documents will be available for review by a Participant or a designated representative of the Participant at any reasonable time during regular business hours. Reasonable copying charges for such documents will be paid by the requesting party.
All Plan administration expenses incurred by the Committee shall be paid by the Corporation and all other administration expenses incurred by the Corporation or an affiliate or Subsidiary shall be paid by the Corporation or an affiliate or Subsidiary (as appropriate).
Any Subsidiary or affiliate of the Corporation may become a Participating Employer under the Plan provided that (i) the Board approves the adoption of the Plan by the Subsidiary or affiliate and designates the Subsidiary or affiliate as a Participating Employer in the Plan and (ii) by appropriate resolutions of the board of directors or other governing body of the Subsidiary or affiliate, the Subsidiary or affiliate agrees to become a Participating Employer under the Plan and also agrees to be bound by any other terms and conditions which may be required by the Board or the Committee, provided that such terms and conditions are not inconsistent with the purposes of the Plan. A Participating Employer may withdraw from participation in the Plan, subject to approval by the Committee, by providing written notice to the Committee that withdrawal has been approved by the board of directors or other governing body of the Participating Employer; provided, however, following the commencement of any discussion with a third party that ultimately results in a Change in Control, the Committee shall have no authority to approve the withdrawal of any Participating Employer until such time as the Corporation and each affiliate or Subsidiary (as appropriate) shall have fully performed all of their obligations under the Plan with respect to all Participants, and shall have paid all Severance Benefits under the Plan in full to all Participants. The Board may at any time remove a Participating Employer from participation in the Plan by providing written notice to the Participating Employer that it has approved removal; provided, however, following the commencement of any discussion with a third party that ultimately results in a Change in Control, the Board shall have no authority to remove or approve the withdrawal of any Participating Employer until such time as the Corporation and each affiliate or Subsidiary (as appropriate) shall have fully performed all of their obligations under the Plan with respect to all Participants, and shall have paid all Severance Benefits under the Plan in full to all Participants. The Board will act in accordance with this Article pursuant to unanimous written consent or by majority vote at a meeting.
6.09          
Effect on Other Benefits
Except as otherwise provided herein, the Plan shall not affect any Participants rights or entitlement under any other retirement or employee benefit plan offered to him/her by the Corporation or an affiliate or Subsidiary (as appropriate) as of his/her Employment Termination.
6.10         
Successors
The Plan shall be binding upon any successor in interest of the Corporation or an affiliate or Subsidiary (as appropriate) and shall inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by, a Participants assigns or heirs.
6.11           
Severability
The various provisions of the Plan are severable and any determination of invalidity or unenforceability of any one provision shall not have any effect on the remaining provisions.
6.12         
Construction
In determining the meaning of the Plan, words imparting the masculine gender shall include the feminine and the singular shall include the plural, unless the context requires otherwise. Headings of sections and subsections of the Plan are for convenience only and are not intended to modify or affect the meaning of the substantive provisions of the Plan.
6.13          
References to Other Plans and Programs
Each reference in the Plan to any plan, policy or program, the Plan or document of the Corporation or an affiliate or Subsidiary, shall include any amendments or successor provisions thereto without the necessity of amending the Plan for such changes.
 
6.15 
   
No Duty to Mitigate
The Participant shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment contemplated under this Plan, nor shall such payment be reduced by any earnings that the Participant may receive from any other source.
6.16 
   
Employment Taxes
All payments made pursuant to this Plan shall be subject to withholding of applicable income and employment taxes.
6.17 
   
Governing Law
Except to the extent that the Plan may be subject to the provisions of ERISA, the Plan will be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Texas, without giving effect to the conflict of laws principles thereof. Except as otherwise required by ERISA, every right of action by an Associate with respect to the Plan shall be barred after the expiration of three years from the date of termination of employment or the date of receipt of the notice of denial of a claim for benefits or eligibility, if earlier. In the event ERISA's limitation on legal action does not apply, the laws of the State of Texas with respect to the limitations of legal actions shall apply and the cause of action must be brought no later than four years after the date the action accrues.
 


