FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20070926163211.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
 
(972) 431-1000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 5.02 
 
   
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of
Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(e)
 
Form of Executive Termination Pay Agreement.
On September 21, 2007, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee as well as the independent members of the Companys Board of Directors approved amendments to the Companys form of Executive Termination Pay Agreement (ETPA), which is described in the 2007 Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 4, 2007. The amendments were adopted to comply with certain requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and related regulations. A copy of the amended and restated ETPA is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 9.01
  
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
By:
/s/ Michael T. Theilmann
 
 
Michael T. Theilmann
Executive Vice President, Chief Human
Resources and Administration Officer
 
 
 
Date: September 26, 2007
Exhibit Number
     
   
   
   
   
Description
10.1
     
   
   
   
   
Form of Executive Termination Pay Agreement, as
amended and restated effective September 21, 2007

Exhibit 10.1
 
As Amended and Restated
Effective September 21, 2007
This Executive Termination Pay Agreement (the Agreement), dated as of _____________, 2007 is between J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. (Corporation) and the undersigned member of the Corporations Executive Board (the Executive).
WHEREAS, in order to achieve its long-term objectives, the Corporation recognizes that it is essential to attract and retain superior executives to serve on its Executive Board;
WHEREAS, in order to induce the Executive [to continue] to serve in the Executives position with the Corporation, the Corporation desires to provide the Executive with the right to receive certain benefits in the event the Executives employment is terminated, on the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and of the mutual covenants herein contained, it is agreed as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Title
 
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
Severance Period
Executive Vice Presidents and above
   18 months
   
   
   
   
Senior Vice President          
   
   
   
   
   
   
1
2 months
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5.1 shall not be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
 
Any arbitration or action pursuant to this Section 5.1 shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of Texas and, where applicable, federal law, without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws of such State. The mandatory arbitration provisions of this Section 5.1 shall supersede in their entirety the J.C. Penney Alternative, a dispute resolution program generally applicable to employment terminations.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation shall not be required to seek or participate in arbitration regarding any actual or threatened breach of the Executives covenants in Section 3, but may pursue its remedies, including injunctive relief, for such breach in a court of competent jurisdiction in the city in which the Corporations principal executive offices are based, or in the sole discretion of the Corporation, in a court of competent jurisdiction where the Executive has committed or is threatening to commit a breach of the Executives covenants, and no arbitrator may make any ruling inconsistent with the findings or rulings of such court.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
operate as a waiver of, or estoppel with respect to, any other or subsequent failure.
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the
date and year first above written.
 
J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc.
By: 
Name: 
                                     
 
                                      
Title: 
                                         
 
Executive
 
                                               
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


