FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20070105164257.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
 
(972) 431-1000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On December 28, 2006, J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (the Company) announced the termination of Catherine G. West as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
 
Ms. West was terminated involuntarily due to her failure to satisfy performance objectives that were established for her orientation period, which related primarily to gaining an understanding of the Companys operations. This failure did not constitute cause within the meaning of the Executive Termination Pay Agreement entered into by the Company with Ms. West (Termination Agreement). The form of Termination Agreement was authorized in March 2006 by the Board of Directors for each member of the Companys Executive Board, other than the Chief Executive Officer, for the purpose of attracting and retaining the best talent in the retail industry.
The primary purpose of the Termination Agreement is to provide for severance benefits in the event of involuntary termination of the executives employment without cause. In accordance with the Termination Agreement, since Ms. West was involuntarily terminated without cause, she is entitled to receive the following:
 
 
 Ms. Wests termination was effective December 28, 2006. The following table sets forth the cash payments and values of equity awards (based on the opening price of the Company's common stock) as of that date payable to Ms. West under the Termination Agreement.
   
The Termination Agreement subjects Ms. West to the following restrictive covenants:
In the event Ms. West breaches any of the covenants listed above, the Company will have no further obligation to make any payments under the Termination Agreement and may seek to recover from Ms. West all such damages as it may be entitled to at law or in equity, including, without limitation, repayment of payments paid to Ms. West pursuant to the Termination Agreement, repayment of the value of any equity consideration theretofore sold or otherwise transferred by Ms. West and forfeiture of any outstanding equity interests in the Company which vested pursuant to the Termination Agreement.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
By:    
/s/ Joanne L. Bober  
   
   
  
Joanne L. Bober
Executive Vice President,
General Counsel and Secretary    
 
 
Date: January 5, 2007 


