FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20070427110101.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
On April 24, 2007, J. C. Penney Company, Inc. and J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. (collectively, the "Company") entered into an Underwriting Agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") with Lehman Brothers Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC, and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as representatives of the several underwriters named therein (collectively, the "Underwriters"), providing for the offer and sale by the Company of $300,000,000 principal amount of 5.75% Senior Notes due 2018 and $700,000,000 principal amount of 6.375% Senior Notes due 2036 (collectively, the "Notes"). The offering of the Notes was registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and is being made pursuant to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3, Reg. Nos. 333-142317 and 333-142317-01 and the Prospectus included therein, filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission") on April 24, 2007, the Preliminary Prospectus Supplement relating thereto dated April 24, 2007, and the Free Writing Prospectus accepted for filing by the Commission on April 25, 2007.
The Notes are to be issued under an Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1994, as amended by a first supplemental indenture dated as of January 27, 2002, and a second supplemental indenture dated as of July 26, 2002 between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as Successor Trustee to Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association. The issuance and sale of the Notes is expected to close on April 27, 2007. The respective forms of Notes are filed herewith as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2 and are incorporated herein by reference.
The Underwriting Agreement includes customary representations, warranties and covenants by the Company. It also provides for customary indemnification by each of the Company and the Underwriters against certain liabilities arising out of or in connection with the sale of the Notes and customary contribution provisions in respect of those liabilities.
The foregoing description of the material terms of the Underwriting Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Underwriting Agreement which is filed herewith as Exhibit 1.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. Certain of the Underwriters and their related entities have engaged and may engage in various financial advisory, commercial banking and investment banking transactions with the Company in the ordinary course of their business, for which they have received, or will receive, customary compensation and expenses.
 
The opinion and consent of Joanne L. Bober, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company in connection with the validity of the Notes offered under the Registration Statement are filed herewith as Exhibit 5.1 and Exhibit 23.1, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 27, 2007
 

Exhibit 1.1                      
[CONFORMED COPY]
 
April 24, 2007
L B I.
EHMAN
ROTHERS
NC
Banc of America Securities LLC
J.P. M S I.,
ORGAN
ECURITIES
NC
As Representatives Of The Several
    Underwriters named in Schedule A attached hereto,
c/o Lehman Brothers Inc.
745 Seventh Avenue
New York, New York 10019
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Introductory. J. C. PENNEY CORPORATION, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "") and J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC., a Delaware company (the ""), propose to issue and sell the debt securities described in Schedule B hereto (together, the ""). The Notes will be issued under an Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1994, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association (formerly First Trust of California, National Association), Successor Trustee to Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association (the "") as amended and supplemented by that First Supplemental Indenture dated January 27, 2002 among the Company, the Co-Obligor and the Trustee and as further amended and supplemented by that Second Supplemental Indenture dated July 26, 2002 among the Company, the Co-Obligor and the Trustee, and as may be amended or supplemented from time to time (the ""). The several Underwriters set forth in Schedule A are hereinafter referred to as "".
ARTICLE I.
Company
Co-Obligor
Notes
Trustee
Indenture
Notes Underwriters
Representations and Warranties of the Company.
ARTICLE II.
The Company and the Co-Obligor jointly and severally represent and warrant to, and agree with the several Notes Underwriters that:
Section 2.01. An "automatic shelf registration statement" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended ("")) on Form S-3 covering the Notes (i) has been prepared by the Company and the Co-Obligor in conformity with the requirements of the Securities Act and the rules and regulations (the "") of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "")
Securities Act
Rules and Regulations
Commission
thereunder; (ii) has been filed with the Commission under the Securities Act not earlier than the date that is three years prior to the Closing Date (as defined in Article III hereof); and (iii) is effective under the Securities Act. Copies of such registration statement and any amendment thereto have been delivered by the Company and the Co-Obligor to the Representatives. As used in this Agreement:
"" means 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the date of this Agreement;
Applicable Time
"" means any date as of which any part of the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto relating to the Notes became, or is deemed to have become, effective under the Securities Act in accordance with the Rules and Regulations (including pursuant to Rule 430B of the Rules and Regulations);
Effective Date
"" means the term sheet prepared pursuant to Section 4.01 of the Agreement and substantially in the form attached hereto as Schedule B.
Final Term Sheet
"" means each "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 of the Rules and Regulations) prepared by or on behalf of the Company and the Co-Obligor or used or referred to by the Company and the Co-Obligor in connection with the offering of the Notes, including the Final Term Sheet;
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
"" means any preliminary prospectus relating to the Notes included in the Registration Statement or filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) of the Rules and Regulations, including any preliminary prospectus supplement thereto relating to the Notes;
Preliminary Prospectus
"" means, as of the Applicable Time, the most recent Preliminary Prospectus, together with each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus filed or used by the Company or the Co-Obligor on or before the Applicable Time, other than a road show that is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus under Rule 433 of the Rules and Regulations.
Pricing Disclosure Package
"" means the final prospectus relating to the Notes, including the Base Prospectus and the final prospectus supplement thereto relating to the Notes, as hereafter filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) of the Rules and Regulations.
Prospectus
"" means, collectively, the various parts of the above-referenced registration statement, each as amended as of the Effective Date for such part, including any Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus and all exhibits to such Registration Statement.
Registration Statement
 
Any reference to any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include any documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Form S-3 under the Securities Act as of the date of such Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be. Any reference to the "" shall be deemed to refer to the latest Preliminary Prospectus included in the Registration Statement or filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) prior to or on the date hereof (including, for purposes hereof, any documents incorporated by reference therein prior to or on the date hereof). Any reference to any amendment or supplement to any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include any document filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), after the date of such Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be, and incorporated by reference in such Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be; and any reference to any amendment to the Registration Statement shall be deemed to include any annual report of the Company and the Co-Obligor on Form 10-K filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act after the Effective Date that is incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement. To the knowledge of the Company and the Co-Obligor, the Commission has not issued any order preventing or suspending the use of any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, and no proceeding or examination for such purpose has been instituted or threatened by the Commission. To the knowledge of the Company and the Co-Obligor, the Commission has not notified the Company or the Co-Obligor of any objection to the use of the form of the Registration Statement.
most recent Preliminary Prospectus
Exchange Act
Section 2.02. The Co-Obligor has been since the time of initial filing of the Registration Statement and continues to be a "well-known seasoned issuer" (as defined in Rule 405 of the Rules and Regulations) eligible to use Form S-3 for the offering of the Notes, including not having been an "ineligible issuer" (as defined in Rule 405) at any such time or date.
Section 2.03. The Registration Statement conformed in all material respects on the Effective Date and the date hereof to the requirements of the Securities Act, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (""), and the Rules and Regulations, and, as of its Effective Date, the Registration Statement did not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, except that the foregoing does not apply to (i) statements in or omissions from any such documents based upon written information furnished to the Company and/or the Co-Obligor by a Notes Underwriter for use therein, or (ii) statements or omissions in the part of the Registration Statement which constitutes the Statement of Eligibility and Qualification under the Trust Indenture Act (Form T-1) of the Trustee. The Preliminary Prospectus conformed in all material respects when filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b), to the requirements of the Securities Act, the Trust Indenture Act and the Rules and Regulations and the Preliminary Prospectus does not, as of its date include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, except that the foregoing does not apply to statements in or omissions from any of such documents based
Trust Indenture Act
 
upon written information furnished to the Company and/or the Co-Obligor by a Notes Underwriter for use therein.
Section 2.04. The Pricing Disclosure Package did not, as of the Applicable Time, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, provided that no representation or warranty is made as to information contained in or omitted from the Pricing Disclosure Package in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company and/or the Co-Obligor by a Notes Underwriter for use therein.
Section 2.05. Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (including, without limitation, any road show that is a free writing prospectus under Rule 433), when considered together with the Pricing Disclosure Package as of the Applicable Time, did not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Section 2.06. Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conformed or will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act and the Rules and Regulations on the date of first use, and the Company and the Co-Obligor have complied with any filing requirements applicable to such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus pursuant to the Rules and Regulations. Neither the Company nor the Co-Obligor have made any offer relating to the Notes that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus without the prior written consent of the Representatives. Any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the use of which has been consented to by the Representatives, is listed on Schedule C hereto. The Company and the Co-Obligor have retained in accordance with the Rules and Regulations all Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses that were not required to be filed pursuant to the Rules and Regulations.
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of Notes. On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, but subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Company and the Co-Obligor jointly and severally agree to sell to the Notes Underwriters, and the Notes Underwriters agree, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company and the Co-Obligor, at the purchase prices set forth in Schedule B hereto, the respective principal amounts of Notes set forth in Schedule A hereto.
ARTICLE III.
The Company will deliver the Notes to the Notes Underwriters, in the form of one or more permanent global Notes in definitive form (the "") deposited with the Trustee as custodian for The Depository Trust Company ("") and registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee for DTC. Interests in any permanent Global Securities will be held only in book-entry form through DTC, except in the limited circumstances described in the Prospectus. Payment for the Notes shall be made by the Notes Underwriters by wire transfer to an account previously designated to Lehman Brothers Inc. ("") by the Company at a bank acceptable to Lehman or by official bank check or checks in federal reserve (same day) funds drawn to the order of the Company, at the office of the Company, 6501 Legacy Drive, Plano, Texas 75024-3698, at 9:00 A.M., Dallas, Texas time, on April 27, 2007 or at such other
Global Securities
DTC
Lehman
 
time not later than seven full business days thereafter as you and the Company determine, such time being herein referred to as the "". The Global Securities in definitive form shall be made available to the Notes Underwriters for inspection not later than 24 hours prior to the Closing Date.
Closing Date
Covenants of the Company and the Notes Underwriters.
ARTICLE IV.
(a) The Company and the Co-Obligor jointly and severally covenant and agree with the several Notes Underwriters that:
Section 4.01. The Company and the Co-Obligor agree: to prepare the Prospectus in a form approved by the Representatives and to file such Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act not later than the Commission's close of business on the second business day following the execution and delivery of this Agreement; to make no further amendment or any supplement to the Registration Statement or the Prospectus prior to the Closing Date except as provided herein; to advise the Representatives, promptly after it receives notice thereof, of the time when any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement or the Prospectus has been filed and to furnish the Representatives with copies thereof; to prepare the Final Term Sheet, substantially in the form of Schedule B hereto and approved by the Representatives and file the Final Term Sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) of the Rules and Regulations within the time period prescribed by such Rule; to advise the Representatives promptly after it receives notice thereof, of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order or any order preventing or suspending the use of the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or suspending the qualification of the Notes for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any such purpose, of receipt by the Company or the Co-Obligor from the Commission of any notice of objection to the use of the form of the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto or of any request by the Commission for the amending or supplementing of the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or for additional information; and in the event of the issuance of any stop order or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or suspending any such qualification, to use promptly its reasonable best efforts to obtain its withdrawal; and to file promptly all reports and any definitive proxy or information statements required to be filed by the Company and the Co-Obligor with the Commission pursuant to Sections 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act subsequent to the date of the Prospectus and for so long as the delivery of a prospectus is required in connection with the offering or sale of the Notes (or would be required but for Rule 172 of the Rules and Regulations).
Section 4.02. Not later than 90 days after the end of the 12-month period beginning at the end of the fiscal quarter of the Co-Obligor during which the Closing Date occurs, the Co-Obligor will make generally available to security holders an earnings statement covering such 12-month period which will satisfy the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act.
 
Section 4.03. The Company and the Co-Obligor will furnish to the Notes Underwriters copies of the Registration Statement (one of which, to be delivered to counsel for the Notes Underwriters, will be signed and include all exhibits), each Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus and any amended or supplemented Prospectus relating to the Notes, each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and any document incorporated by reference in any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus; and, if the delivery of a prospectus is required (or would be required but for Rule 172 of the Rules and Regulations) at any time after the date hereof in connection with the offering or sale of the Securities or any other securities relating thereto and if at any such time any events shall have occurred as a result of which the Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made when such Prospectus is delivered, not misleading, or, if for any other reason it shall be necessary to amend or supplement the Prospectus or to file under the Exchange Act any document incorporated by reference in the Prospectus in order to comply with the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, to notify the Representatives and, upon their request, to file such document and to prepare and furnish without charge to each Underwriter and to any dealer in securities as many copies as the Representatives may from time to time reasonably request of an amended or supplemented Pricing Disclosure Package or Prospectus that will correct such statement or omission or effect such compliance.
Section 4.04. Neither the Company nor the Co-Obligor shall make any offer relating to the Notes that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus without the prior written consent of the Representatives.
Section 4.05. The Company and the Co-Obligor shall retain in accordance with the Rules and Regulations all Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses not required to be filed pursuant to the Rules and Regulations; and if at any time after the date hereof any events shall have occurred as a result of which any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as then amended or supplemented, would conflict with the information in the Registration Statement, the most recent Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or, if for any other reason it shall be necessary to amend or supplement any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, to notify the Representatives and, upon their request, to file such document and to prepare and furnish without charge to each Underwriter as many copies as the Representatives may from time to time reasonably request of an amended or supplemented Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that will correct such conflict, statement or omission or effect such compliance;
Section 4.06. The Company and the Co-Obligor will use their reasonable best efforts to arrange for the qualification of the Notes for sale, and the determination of their eligibility for investment, under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Notes Underwriters reasonably designate and will diligently endeavor to continue such qualifications in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Notes; provided, however, that the Company and the Co-Obligor shall not be required to register or qualify, or to maintain
 
qualification, as a foreign corporation nor, except as to matters and transactions relating to the offer or sale of the Notes, consent to service of process generally in any state.
Section 4.07. The Company and the Co-Obligor will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, for any filing fees and other expenses (including fees and disbursements of counsel) incurred in connection with qualification of the Notes for sale under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives reasonably designate and the printing of memoranda relating thereto, for any fees charged by investment rating agencies for the rating of the Notes, and for reasonable expenses incurred in distributing any Preliminary Prospectuses, the Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto to the Notes Underwriters.
Section 4.08. The Company and the Co-Obligor will pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Notes within the time period required by Rule 456(b)(1) of the Rules and Regulations without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r) of the Rules and Regulations.
Section 4.09. So long as any of the Notes are outstanding, the Company and the Co-Obligor will furnish to the Notes Underwriters (i) as soon as practicable after the end of each fiscal year, a copy of the Co-Obligor's annual report to stockholders for such year, (ii) as soon as available, a copy of each report or definitive proxy statement of the Co-Obligor filed with the Commission under the Exchange Act or mailed to stockholders, and (iii) from time to time, such other information concerning the Company and the Co-Obligor as the Notes Underwriters may reasonably request.
(b) Each Notes Underwriter severally covenants and agrees with the Company and the Co-Obligor that such Notes Underwriter shall not include any "issuer information" (as defined in Rule 433 of the Rules and Regulations) in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (as defined in Rule 405 of the Rules and Regulations) used or referred to by such Underwriter without the prior written consent of the Company and the Co-Obligor (any such issuer information with respect to whose use the Company and the Co-Obligor has given its consent, ""); provided that (i) no such consent shall be required with respect to any such issuer information contained in any document filed by the Company and the Co-Obligor with the Commission prior to the use of such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and (ii) "issuer information," as used in this Section 4(b), shall not be deemed to include information prepared by or on behalf of such Underwriter on the basis of or derived from issuer information.
Permitted Issuer Information
Conditions of Obligations of the Notes Underwriters. The obligations of the Notes Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Notes will be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company and the Co-Obligor herein, to the accuracy of the statements of officers of the Company and the Co-Obligor made pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company and the Co-Obligor of its obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions precedent:
ARTICLE V.
 
Section 5.01. The Notes Underwriters shall have received a letter of KPMG LLP dated the date hereof, in form and substance satisfactory to them, with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained in or incorporated by reference into the most recent Preliminary Prospectus. Such letter shall be in substantially the form, and contain substantially the information, as those letters heretofore furnished by KPMG LLP in connection with other underwritten offerings by the Company and the Co-Obligor.
Section 5.02. The Prospectus shall have been timely filed with the Commission in accordance with Section 4.01; the Company and the Co-Obligor shall have complied with all filing requirements applicable to any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus used or referred to after the date hereof; no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or preventing or suspending the use of the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus shall have been issued and no proceeding or examination for such purpose shall have been initiated or threatened by the Commission; any request of the Commission for inclusion of additional information in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or otherwise shall have been complied with; and the Commission shall not have notified the Company or the Co-Obligor of any objection to the use of the form of the Registration Statement.
Section 5.03. Subsequent to the execution and delivery of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred (A) any change, or any development involving a prospective change, in or affecting particularly the business or properties of the Co-Obligor and its subsidiaries (including the Company), taken as a whole which, in the judgment of the Representatives materially impairs the investment quality of the Notes; (B) any downgrading in the rating of any debt securities of the Company or the Co-Obligor by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (as defined for purposes of Rule 436(g) under the Securities Act), or any public announcement that any such organization has under surveillance or review its rating of any debt securities of the Company or the Co-Obligor (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading and no implication of a possible downgrading, of such rating); (C) any material suspension or material limitation of trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange or any setting of minimum prices for trading on such exchange, or any suspension of trading of any securities of the Company or the Co-Obligor on any exchange or in the over-the-counter market; (D) any banking moratorium declared by U.S. Federal or New York authorities; (E) any major disruption of settlements of securities or clearance services in the United States; or (F) any outbreak or escalation of major hostilities in which the United States is involved, any declaration of war by Congress or any other substantial national or international calamity or emergency if, in the judgment of the Representatives the effect of any such outbreak, escalation, declaration, calamity or emergency makes it impractical or inadvisable to proceed with completion of the offering or sale of and payment for the Notes.
Section 5.04. The Notes Underwriters shall have received an opinion of Joanne L. Bober, General Counsel of the Company and the Co-Obligor, dated the Closing Date, to the effect that:
 
(a) The Company and the Co-Obligor have been duly incorporated and are validly existing as corporations in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, with corporate power and authority to own their respective properties and conduct their business as described in the Prospectus; and the Company and the Co-Obligor are duly qualified to do business as foreign corporations in good standing in all other jurisdictions in which they own or lease substantial properties or in which the conduct of their respective business requires such qualification;
(b) The Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered and has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act; the Notes have been duly authorized, executed, authenticated, issued and delivered and conform in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Preliminary Prospectus, Prospectus or Registration Statement; and the Indenture and the Notes constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company and the Co-Obligor, enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles;
(c) No consent, approval, authorization or order of, or filing with, any governmental agency or body or any court is required for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement in connection with the issuance or sale of the Notes by the Company and the Co-Obligor, except such as have been obtained and made under the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act and such as may be required under state securities laws;
(d) The execution, delivery and performance of the Indenture and this Agreement and the issuance and sale of the Notes and compliance with the terms and provisions thereof will not result in a breach or violation of any of the terms and provisions of, or constitute a default under, any statute, any rule, regulation or order of any governmental agency or body or any court having jurisdiction over the Company, the Co-Obligor or any of their properties or any agreement or instrument to which the Company or the Co-Obligor is a party or by which either of them is bound or to which any of the property of the Company or the Co-Obligor is subject, or the charter or bylaws of the Company or the Co-Obligor, and the Company and the Co-Obligor have full power and authority to authorize, issue and sell the Notes as contemplated by this Agreement;
(e) The Registration Statement became effective under the Securities Act as of the date it was filed with the Commission, and the Prospectus was filed with the Commission pursuant to the subparagraph of Rule 424(b) of the Rules and Regulations specified in such opinion on the date specified therein. To the best of the knowledge of such counsel, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending under the Securities Act. The Registration Statement and the Prospectus as of the date of this Agreement, comply as to form
 
in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act, the Trust Indenture Act and the Rules and Regulations; there has not been disclosed to such counsel any information giving her reason to believe either that (A) the Registration Statement, as of the latest Effective Date, contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or that (B) the Prospectus, as of its date and as of such Closing Date contained or contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or that (C) the Pricing Disclosure Package, as of the Applicable Time, contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The descriptions in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus of statutes, legal and governmental proceedings and contracts and other documents are accurate in all material respects and fairly present the information required to be shown; and such counsel does not know of any legal or governmental proceedings required to be described in the Prospectus which are not described as required, nor of any contracts or documents of a character required to be described in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or to be filed as exhibits to the Registration Statement which are not described and filed as required; it being understood that such counsel need express no opinion as to the financial statements or other financial data contained in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus; and
(f) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and the Co-Obligor.
Section 5.05. The Notes Underwriters shall have received from Dewey Ballantine LLP, counsel for the Notes Underwriters, such opinion or opinions, dated the Closing Date, with respect to such of the matters stated in paragraph (d) hereof and other related matters as the Notes Underwriters may reasonably require, and the Company and the Co-Obligor shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they reasonably request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters.
Section 5.06. The Notes Underwriters shall have received a certificate of the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer or any Vice President and a principal financial or accounting officer of the Company and the Co-Obligor, dated the Closing Date, in which such officers, to the best of their knowledge after reasonable investigation, shall state that the representations and warranties of the Company and the Co-Obligor in this Agreement are true and correct, that the Company and the Co-Obligor have complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on their part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to the Closing Date, that no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are contemplated by the Commission, and that, subsequent to the date of the most recent financial statements in the most recent Preliminary Prospectus, there has been no material adverse change in the financial position or results of operations of
 
the Co-Obligor and its subsidiaries (including the Company), taken as a whole, except as set forth or contemplated in the most recent Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus. Further, such officers have carefully examined the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and the Pricing Disclosure Package, and, in their opinion, (i) (A) the Registration Statement, as of the Effective Date, (B) the Prospectus, as of its date and on the applicable Closing Date, or (C) the Pricing Disclosure Package, as of the Applicable Time, did not and do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact and did not and do not omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made not misleading, and (ii) since the Effective Date, no event has occurred that should have been set forth in a supplement or amendment to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that has not been so set forth.
Section 5.07. The Notes Underwriters shall have received a letter, dated such Closing Date, of KPMG LLP which meets the requirements of Section 5.01 of this Agreement, except that the specified date referred to in Section 5.01 will be a date not more than three days prior to such Closing Date for the purposes of this section.
The Company and the Co-Obligor will furnish the Notes Underwriters with such conformed copies of such opinions, certificates, letters and documents as the Notes Underwriters reasonably request.
Indemnification.
ARTICLE VI.
Section 6.01. The Company and the Co-Obligor will jointly and severally indemnify and hold harmless each Notes Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls any Notes Underwriter within the meaning of the Act against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which such Notes Underwriter or such controlling person may become subject, under the Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon (i) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in (A) any Preliminary Prospectus, the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or in any amendment or supplement thereto, (B) any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or in any amendment or supplement thereto or (C) any Permitted Issuer Information used or referred to in any "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 of the Rules and Regulations) used or referred to by any Notes Underwriter, or (ii) the omission or alleged omission to state in any Preliminary Prospectus, the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or in any amendment or supplement thereto or in any Permitted Issuer Information, any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The Company and the Co-Obligor will reimburse each Notes Underwriter and each such controlling person for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Notes Underwriter or such controlling person in connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action; provided, however, that the Company and the Co-Obligor will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission
 
made (A) in any Preliminary Prospectus, the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or in any such amendment or supplement thereto or in any Permitted Issuer Information, in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company and/or the Co-Obligor by any Notes Underwriter through the Representatives for use therein, or (B) in that part of each Registration Statement constituting the Statement of Eligibility and Qualification under the Trust Indenture Act (Form T-1) of the Trustee. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability which the Company and the Co-Obligor may otherwise have.
Section 6.02. Each Notes Underwriter, severally and not jointly, will indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the Co-Obligor, each of their respective directors, each of their respective officers who have signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company or the Co-Obligor within the meaning of the Securities Act, against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities to which the Company or the Co-Obligor or any such director, officer or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon (i) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any Preliminary Prospectus, the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or in any amendment or supplement thereto, or (ii) the omission or alleged omission to state in any Preliminary Prospectus, the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or in any amendment or supplement thereto, any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, but in each case only to the extent that the untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information concerning such Notes Underwriter furnished to the Company and the Co-Obligor through the Representatives by or on behalf of that Notes Underwriter specifically for inclusion therein. Each Notes Underwriter will reimburse any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by the Company and/or the Co-Obligor or any such director, officer or controlling person in connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability which such Notes Underwriter may otherwise have.
Section 6.03. Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under this Section, notify the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof; but the omission so to notify the indemnifying party will not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party otherwise than under this Section. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party, and it notifies the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it may wish, jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel satisfactory to such indemnified party (who shall not, except with the consent of the indemnified party, be counsel to the indemnifying party), and after notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of its election so to assume the defense thereof, the indemnifying party will not be
 
liable to such indemnified party under this Section for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation. The indemnifying party shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent but if settled with such consent or if there has been a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment.
Section 6.04. If recovery is not available under the foregoing indemnification provisions of this Section, for any reason other than as specified therein, the parties entitled to indemnification by the terms thereof shall be entitled to contribution for liabilities and expenses, except to the extent that contribution is not permitted under Section 11(f) of the Securities Act. In determining the amount of contribution to which the respective parties are entitled, there shall be considered the relative benefits received by each party from the offering of the Notes (taking into account the portion of the proceeds of the offering realized by each), the parties' relative knowledge and access to information concerning the matter with respect to which the claim was asserted, the opportunity to correct and prevent any statement or omission and any other equitable considerations appropriate under the circumstances. The Company and the Co-Obligor on the one hand and the Notes Underwriters on the other agree that it would not be equitable if the amount of such contribution were determined by pro rata or per capita allocation (even if the Notes Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose). No Notes Underwriter or any person controlling such Notes Underwriter shall be obligated to make contribution hereunder which in the aggregate exceeds the total public offering price of the Notes purchased by such Notes Underwriter under this Agreement, less the aggregate amount of any damages which such Notes Underwriter and its controlling persons have otherwise been required to pay in respect of the same claim or any substantially similar claim. The Notes Underwriters' obligations to contribute are several in proportion to their respective underwriting obligations and not joint.
Default of Notes Underwriters. If any Notes Underwriter or Notes Underwriters default in their obligations to purchase Notes hereunder and the aggregate principal amount of the Notes which such defaulting Notes Underwriter or Notes Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase does not exceed 10% of the total principal amount of the Notes, the Representatives may make arrangements satisfactory to the Company and the Co-Obligor for the purchase of such Notes by other persons, including any of the Notes Underwriters, but if no such arrangements are made by the Closing Date, the non-defaulting Notes Underwriters shall be obligated severally, in proportion to their respective commitments hereunder, to purchase the Notes which such defaulting Notes Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase. If any Notes Underwriter or Notes Underwriters so default and the aggregate principal amount of Notes with respect to which such default or defaults occur is more than 10% of the total principal amount of the Notes and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Notes by other persons are not made within 36 hours after such default, this Agreement will terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Notes Underwriter or the Company and the Co-Obligor, except as provided in Article VIII hereof. As used in this Agreement, the term "Notes Underwriter" includes any person substituted for a Notes
ARTICLE VII.
 
Underwriter under this Section. Nothing herein will relieve a defaulting Notes Underwriter from liability for its default.
Survival of Certain Representations and Obligations. The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties, and other statements of the Company, the Co-Obligor and of the Notes Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Notes Underwriter or the Company or the Co-Obligor or any of their respective officers or respective directors or any controlling person, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Notes. If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Article VII hereof or if for any reason the purchase of the Notes by the Notes Underwriters pursuant to this Agreement is not consummated, the Company and the Co-Obligor shall remain responsible for the expenses to be paid or reimbursed by it pursuant to Article IV hereof and the respective obligations of the Company and the Co-Obligor and the Notes Underwriters pursuant to Article VI hereof shall remain in effect. If for any reason, the purchase of the Notes by the Notes Underwriters is not consummated other than because of the termination of this Agreement pursuant to Article VII or the occurrence of any event specified in clause (C), (D), (E) or (F) of Section 5.03, the Company and the Co-Obligor will reimburse the Notes Underwriters for all out-of-pocket expenses (including fees and disbursements of counsel) incurred by them in connection with the offering of the Notes.
ARTICLE VIII.
Research Analyst Independence. The Company and the Co-Obligor acknowledge that the Notes Underwriters' research analysts and research departments are required to be independent from their respective investment banking divisions and are subject to certain regulations and internal policies, and that such Notes Underwriters' research analysts may hold views and make statements or investment recommendations and/or publish research reports with respect to the Company, the Co-Obligor and/or the offering that differ from the views of their respective investment banking divisions. The Company and the Co-Obligor hereby waive and release, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that either the Company or the Co-Obligor may have against the Notes Underwriters with respect to any conflict of interest that may arise from the fact that the views expressed by their independent research analysts and research departments may be different from or inconsistent with the views or advice communicated to the Company or the Co-Obligor by such Notes Underwriters' investment banking divisions. The Company and the Co-Obligor acknowledge that each of the Notes Underwriters is a full service securities firm and as such from time to time, subject to applicable securities laws, may effect transactions for its own account or the account of its customers and hold long or short positions in debt or equity securities of the Company or the Co-Obligor.
ARTICLE IX.
No Fiduciary Duty. The Company and the Co-Obligor acknowledge and agree that in connection with this offering, sale of the Notes or any other services the Notes Underwriters may be deemed to be providing hereunder, notwithstanding any preexisting relationship, advisory or otherwise, between the parties or any oral representations or assurances previously or subsequently made by the Notes Underwriters: (i) no fiduciary or agency relationship between the Company, the Co-Obligor and any other person, on the one hand, and the Notes Underwriters, on the other, exists; (ii) the Notes Underwriters are not acting as advisors, expert or otherwise, to the Company or the Co-Obligor, including, without
ARTICLE X.
 
limitation, with respect to the determination of the public offering price of the Notes, and such relationship between the Company or the Co-Obligor, on the one hand, and the Notes Underwriters, on the other, is entirely and solely commercial, based on arms-length negotiations; (iii) any duties and obligations that the Notes Underwriters may have to the Company and the Co-Obligor shall be limited to those duties and obligations specifically stated herein; and (iv) the Notes Underwriters and their respective affiliates may have interests that differ from those of the Company and the Co-Obligor. The Company and the Co-Obligor hereby waive any claims that either the Company or the Co-Obligor may have against the Notes Underwriters with respect to any breach of fiduciary duty in connection with this offering.
Notices. All communications hereunder will be in writing and if sent to the Notes Underwriters will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed c/o Lehman Brothers Inc., 745 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10019, Attn: Debt Capital Markets, Consumer Retail Group (with a copy to the General Counsel at the same address) and if sent to the Company or the Co-Obligor will be similarly sent, if by mail, to P.O. Box 10001, Dallas, Texas 75301-0001 and if sent otherwise, to 6501 Legacy Drive, Plano, Texas 75024-3698, Attention of the General Counsel.
ARTICLE XI.
Successors. This Underwriting Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers and directors and controlling persons referred to in Article VI hereof, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.
ARTICLE XII.
Representation of Notes Underwriters. Lehman, Banc of America Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as Representatives, will act for the several Notes Underwriters in connection with the offering of the Notes, and any action under this Agreement taken by the Notes Underwriters jointly or by any Representative will be binding upon all the Notes Underwriters.
ARTICLE XIII.
Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same Agreement.
ARTICLE XIV.
Applicable Law. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
ARTICLE XV.
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to us the enclosed duplicate hereof, whereupon it will become a binding agreement among the Company, the Co-Obligor and the several Notes Underwriters in accordance with its terms.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time.
 
Bloomberg Electronic Road Show, dated April 24, 2007.
Pricing Term Sheet
 

Exhibit 4.1
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
THIS SENIOR NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE OF A DEPOSITORY. THIS SENIOR NOTE IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SENIOR NOTES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITORY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SENIOR NOTE (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS SENIOR NOTE AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITORY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TO THE DEPOSITORY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY) MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN SUCH LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES.
 
J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. and J. C. Penney Company, Inc., each a Delaware Corporation (hereinafter called the "Company" and "Co-obligor", respectively), for value received, promise to pay to                          or registered assigns, the principal sum of $             on February 15, 2018, and to pay interest on said principal sum, semiannually on February 15 and August 15 of each year, at the rate of 5.75% per annum, from the February 15 or the August 15, as the case may be, next preceding the date of this Senior Note to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, unless the date hereof is a date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, in which case from the date of this Senior Note, or unless no interest has been paid on the Senior Notes, in which case from April 27, 2007, until the principal hereof becomes due and payable, and at such rate on any overdue principal and (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable) on any overdue installment of interest. Notwithstanding the foregoing, when there is no existing default in the payment of interest on the Senior Notes, if the date hereof is after
a Regular Record Date, which shall be the close of business on February 1 or August 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding an Interest Payment Date, and before the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, this Senior Note shall bear interest from such Interest Payment Date; provided, however, that if the Company shall default in the payment of interest due on such Interest Payment Date, then this Senior Note shall bear interest from the next preceding Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, or if no interest has been paid on the Senior Notes, from April 27, 2007. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Senior Note (or one or more Predecessor Notes) is registered at the Regular Record Date for such Interest Payment Date. The principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Senior Note are payable in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts, at the agency or agencies maintained by the Company for such purpose; provided, however, that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register. Any interest not punctually paid or duly provided for shall be payable as provided in the Indenture.
Reference is made to the further provisions of this Senior Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which shall have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
Unless one of the certificates of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee by manual signature, this Senior Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and Co-obligor have caused the execution hereof in their respective corporate name by their respective duly authorized officers on this          day of         .
 
 
 
FORM OF TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF
AUTHENTICATION
This is one of the 5.75% Senior Notes
Due 2018 referred to in the within
mentioned Indenture.
Date:
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
as Trustee
 
[FORM OF REVERSE OF SENIOR NOTE]
This Senior Note is one of a duly authorized issue of unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Company (herein called the "Securities") of the series hereinafter specified, all issued and to be issued under an Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1994, as amended by a first supplemental indenture, dated as of January 27, 2002, and a second supplemental indenture dated as of July 26, 2002 (herein called the "Indenture"), between the Company, Co-obligor and U.S. Bank National Association (formerly First Trust of California, National Association as Successor Trustee to Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association) (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor Trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights thereunder of the Company, the Co-obligor, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. The Securities, which are unlimited in aggregate principal amount, may be issued in one or more series, which different series may be issued in various aggregate principal amounts, may mature at different times, may bear interest (if any) at different rates, may be subject to different redemption provisions (if any), may be subject to different sinking, purchase or analogous funds (if any), may be subject to different covenants and Events of Default and may otherwise vary as in the Indenture provided. This Senior Note is one of a series of the Securities designated as the 5.75% Senior Notes Due February 15, 2018 (herein called the "Notes").
The Notes are initially being offered in the principal amount of $            . The Company may, without consent of the Holders of the Notes, create and issue additional Notes ranking equally with the Notes in all respects, including having the same CUSIP number, so that such additional Notes shall be consolidated and form a single series with the Notes and shall have the same terms as to status, redemption or otherwise as the Notes. No additional Notes may be issued if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the Notes.
If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, unless the Company has exercised its rights to satisfy and discharge the Notes prior to maturity as described below, Holders of Notes will have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part (in integral multiples of $1,000 original principal amount) of their Notes pursuant to the offer described below (referred to herein as a "Change of Control Offer"). In the Change of Control Offer, the Company will be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased, to the date of purchase (referred to herein as a "Change of Control Payment"). Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, the Company must mail a notice to Holders of Notes describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in such notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (referred to
herein as a "Change of Control Payment Date"). The Company must comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control provisions of the Notes, the Company will be required to comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under these Change of Control provisions by virtue of such conflicts and compliance with law.
On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will be required, to the extent lawful, to:
 
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Indenture to the contrary, the terms below, as used with respect to the Notes, shall have the following respective meanings:
"Below Investment Grade Rating Event" means that Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies (as defined below) on any date from the date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the occurrence of the Change of Control (which 60-day period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies).
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) any event requiring the filing of any report under or in response to Schedule 13D or 14D-1 pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, disclosing beneficial ownership of either 50% or more of the common stock of the Co-obligor then outstanding or 50% or more of the voting power of the voting stock of the Co-obligor then outstanding; (2) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Co-obligor or the Company and their respective subsidiaries taken as a whole to one or more persons (as defined in the Indenture) other than the Co-obligor or one of its subsidiaries; or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Co-obligor's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors.
"Change of Control Triggering Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
"Continuing Director" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Co-obligor who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of the issuance of the Notes; or (2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Co-obligor's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
"Fitch" means Fitch Ratings.
"Investment Grade Rating" means a rating equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P.
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Services, Inc.
"Rating Agencies" means (1) each of Fitch, Moody's and S&P; and (2) if any of Fitch, Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Company's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Fitch, Moody's or S&P, or all of them, as the case may be.
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
The Indenture provides that the Company, at any time or from time to time, may satisfy and fully discharge its obligations with respect to any payment of principal or interest due on the Notes by depositing in trust with the Trustee money or U.S. Government Obligations or a combination thereof in such amounts as will provide, after giving effect in the case of U.S. Government Obligations so deposited to the principal thereof and interest thereon when due, no less than the dollar amount which the Company would have been required, in respect of such payment, to segregate and hold in trust or deposit with the Trustee; provided, however, that any such deposit shall not affect the rights of the Holder of any Note to receive payments due on such Notes at the times provided therein and in the Indenture. If such deposit is sufficient to make all payments of (1) interest on the Notes prior to their redemption or maturity, as the case may be, and (2) principal of and interest on the Notes when due upon redemption or at maturity, as the case may be, all the obligations of the Company under the Notes and the Indenture as it relates to the Notes shall be discharged and terminated except as otherwise provided in the Indenture.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note may be registered on the Security Register, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at one of the agencies maintained by the Company for such purpose, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the
Security Registrar (if other than the Company) duly executed by the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Notes are issuable only as registered Notes without coupons in the denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. As provided in the Indenture, Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of different authorized denominations, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge will be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer of this Note, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the absolute owner hereof for the purpose of receiving payment as herein provided and for all other purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall occur and be continuing, the principal of all the Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of any series under the Indenture at any time by the Company with the consent of the Holders of 66 2/3% (unless a different percentage is specified with respect to any series of Securities, in which case, as to such series, the percentage so specified) in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected by any such amendment or modification. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all the Notes, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Note at the times, places and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on this Note, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect hereof, or based on or in respect
of the Indenture or any indenture supplemental thereto, against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or any successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issue hereof, expressly waived and released.
All terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
I or we assign and transfer this Note to
 
 
 
and irrevocably appoint agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                                    
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Security Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Security Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Exhibit 4.2
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
THIS SENIOR NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE OF A DEPOSITORY. THIS SENIOR NOTE IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SENIOR NOTES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITORY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SENIOR NOTE (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS SENIOR NOTE AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITORY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TO THE DEPOSITORY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY) MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN SUCH LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES.
 
J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. and J. C. Penney Company, Inc., each a Delaware Corporation (hereinafter called the "Company" and "Co-obligor", respectively), for value received, promise to pay to                      or registered assigns, the principal sum of $             on October 15, 2036, and to pay interest on said principal sum, semiannually on April 15 and October 15 of each year, at the rate of 6.375% per annum, from the April 15 or the October 15, as the case may be, next preceding the date of this Senior Note to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, unless the date hereof is a date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, in which case from the date of this Senior Note, or unless no interest has been paid on the Senior Notes, in which case from April 27, 2007, until the principal hereof becomes due and payable, and at such rate on any overdue principal and (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable) on any overdue installment of interest. Notwithstanding the foregoing, when there is no existing default in the payment of interest on the Senior Notes, if the date hereof is after
a Regular Record Date, which shall be the close of business on April 1 or October 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding an Interest Payment Date, and before the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, this Senior Note shall bear interest from such Interest Payment Date; provided, however, that if the Company shall default in the payment of interest due on such Interest Payment Date, then this Senior Note shall bear interest from the next preceding Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, or if no interest has been paid on the Senior Notes, from April 27, 2007. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Senior Note (or one or more Predecessor Notes) is registered at the Regular Record Date for such Interest Payment Date. The principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Senior Note are payable in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts, at the agency or agencies maintained by the Company for such purpose; provided, however, that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register. Any interest not punctually paid or duly provided for shall be payable as provided in the Indenture.
Reference is made to the further provisions of this Senior Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which shall have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
Unless one of the certificates of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee by manual signature, this Senior Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and Co-obligor have caused the execution hereof in their respective corporate name by their respective duly authorized officers on this          day of         .
 
 
 
[FORM OF REVERSE OF SENIOR NOTE]
This Senior Note is one of a duly authorized issue of unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Company (herein called the "Securities") of the series hereinafter specified, all issued and to be issued under an Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1994, as amended by a first supplemental indenture, dated as of January 27, 2002, and a second supplemental indenture dated as of July 26, 2002 (herein called the "Indenture"), between the Company, Co-obligor and U.S. Bank National Association (formerly First Trust of California, National Association as Successor Trustee to Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association) (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor Trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights thereunder of the Company, the Co-obligor, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. The Securities, which are unlimited in aggregate principal amount, may be issued in one or more series, which different series may be issued in various aggregate principal amounts, may mature at different times, may bear interest (if any) at different rates, may be subject to different redemption provisions (if any), may be subject to different sinking, purchase or analogous funds (if any), may be subject to different covenants and Events of Default and may otherwise vary as in the Indenture provided. This Senior Note is one of a series of the Securities designated as the 6.375% Senior Notes Due October 15, 2036 (herein called the "Notes").
The Notes are initially being offered in the principal amount of $            . The Company may, without consent of the Holders of the Notes, create and issue additional Notes ranking equally with the Notes in all respects, including having the same CUSIP number, so that such additional Notes shall be consolidated and form a single series with the Notes and shall have the same terms as to status, redemption or otherwise as the Notes. No additional Notes may be issued if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the Notes.
If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, unless the Company has exercised its rights to satisfy and discharge the Notes prior to maturity as described below, Holders of Notes will have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part (in integral multiples of $1,000 original principal amount) of their Notes pursuant to the offer described below (referred to herein as a "Change of Control Offer"). In the Change of Control Offer, the Company will be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased, to the date of purchase (referred to herein as a "Change of Control Payment"). Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, the Company must mail a notice to Holders of Notes describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in such notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (referred to
herein as a "Change of Control Payment Date"). The Company must comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control provisions of the Notes, the Company will be required to comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under these Change of Control provisions by virtue of such conflicts and compliance with law.
On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will be required, to the extent lawful, to:
 
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Indenture to the contrary, the terms below, as used with respect to the Notes, shall have the following respective meanings:
"Below Investment Grade Rating Event" means that Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies (as defined below) on any date from the date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the occurrence of the Change of Control (which 60-day period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies).
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) any event requiring the filing of any report under or in response to Schedule 13D or 14D-1 pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, disclosing beneficial ownership of either 50% or more of the common stock of the Co-obligor then outstanding or 50% or more of the voting power of the voting stock of the Co-obligor then outstanding; (2) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Co-obligor or the Company and their respective subsidiaries taken as a whole to one or more persons (as defined in the Indenture) other than the Co-obligor or one of its subsidiaries; or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Co-obligor's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors.
"Change of Control Triggering Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
"Continuing Director" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Co-obligor who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of the issuance of the Notes; or (2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Co-obligor's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
"Fitch" means Fitch Ratings.
"Investment Grade Rating" means a rating equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P.
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Services, Inc.
"Rating Agencies" means (1) each of Fitch, Moody's and S&P; and (2) if any of Fitch, Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Company's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Fitch, Moody's or S&P, or all of them, as the case may be.
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
The Indenture provides that the Company, at any time or from time to time, may satisfy and fully discharge its obligations with respect to any payment of principal or interest due on the Notes by depositing in trust with the Trustee money or U.S. Government Obligations or a combination thereof in such amounts as will provide, after giving effect in the case of U.S. Government Obligations so deposited to the principal thereof and interest thereon when due, no less than the dollar amount which the Company would have been required, in respect of such payment, to segregate and hold in trust or deposit with the Trustee; provided, however, that any such deposit shall not affect the rights of the Holder of any Note to receive payments due on such Notes at the times provided therein and in the Indenture. If such deposit is sufficient to make all payments of (1) interest on the Notes prior to their redemption or maturity, as the case may be, and (2) principal of and interest on the Notes when due upon redemption or at maturity, as the case may be, all the obligations of the Company under the Notes and the Indenture as it relates to the Notes shall be discharged and terminated except as otherwise provided in the Indenture.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note may be registered on the Security Register, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at one of the agencies maintained by the Company for such purpose, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the
Security Registrar (if other than the Company) duly executed by the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Notes are issuable only as registered Notes without coupons in the denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. As provided in the Indenture, Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of different authorized denominations, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge will be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer of this Note, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the absolute owner hereof for the purpose of receiving payment as herein provided and for all other purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall occur and be continuing, the principal of all the Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of any series under the Indenture at any time by the Company with the consent of the Holders of 66 2/3% (unless a different percentage is specified with respect to any series of Securities, in which case, as to such series, the percentage so specified) in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected by any such amendment or modification. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all the Notes, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Note at the times, places and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on this Note, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect hereof, or based on or in respect
of the Indenture or any indenture supplemental thereto, against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or any successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issue hereof, expressly waived and released.
All terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
I or we assign and transfer this Note to
 
 
 
and irrevocably appoint agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                                    
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Security Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Security Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Exhibit 5.1
Board of Directors
J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc.
6501 Legacy Drive
Plano, Texas 75024-3698
Board of Directors
J. C. Penney Company, Inc.
6501 Legacy Drive
Plano, Texas 75024-3698
Ladies and Gentlemen:
As General Counsel of J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Company") and J. C. Penney Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Co-Obligor"), I am familiar with (i) the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company and its Bylaws, as amended, and (ii) the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, of the Co-Obligor and its Bylaws, as amended.
I am also familiar with the corporate proceedings taken in connection with the sale of $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.75% Senior Notes Due 2018 and $700,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 6.375% Senior Notes Due 2036 (collectively, the "Debt Securities") to be issued under an Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1994 ("Indenture"), among the Company, the Co-obligor and U.S. Bank National Association, Successor Trustee to Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association ("Successor Trustee"), which Indenture relates to the issuance and sale from time to time of debt securities, each series of which is to be offered on terms to be determined at the time of sale. I have examined the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Commission File Nos. 333-142317 and 333-142317-01) filed by the Company and the Co-Obligor with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission") on April 24, 2007 ("Registration Statement"), which became effective on April 24, 2007, for the registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended ("Act"), of debt securities (which debt securities may be offered with warrants to purchase debt securities) to be made on a continuous or delayed basis pursuant to the provisions of Rule 415 under the Act. I have also examined a Prospectus Supplement dated April 24, 2007 (to the Prospectus dated April 24, 2007 which was included in the Registration Statement) relating to the Debt Securities in the form filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b)(5) under the Act and such other documents and records as I have deemed appropriate for purposes of this opinion.
 
Based upon the foregoing, I am of the opinion as follows:
 
 
The foregoing opinions are limited in all respects to the corporate laws of the State of Delaware and the federal laws of the United States of America, in each case, that, in my experience, are normally applicable to transactions of the type contemplated by the Registration Statement and, to the extent that judicial or regulatory orders or decrees or consents, approvals, licenses, authorizations, validations, filings, recordings or registrations with governmental authorities are relevant, to those required under such laws, and I do not express any opinions as to the laws of any other jurisdiction.
I hereby consent to the reference to me under the heading Legal Matters in the Prospectus included in Registration Statement and under the heading Legal Matters in the Prospectus Supplement.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Joanne L. Bober
Joanne L. Bober
General Counsel


