FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20080515093016.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 431-1000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ]  Soliciting pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
material
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. issued an earnings press release on May 15, 2008, announcing its first quarter results of operations and financial condition. This information is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
 
 
 
By:                                   
/s/ Robert B. Cavanaugh 
Robert B. Cavanaugh
Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
 
 
 
 
Date:  May 15, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                              
Exhibit Number
Description
 
99.1                                  J. C. Penney Company, Inc. News Release issued May 15, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
-- J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE:JCP) reported earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.54 for the first quarter ended May 3, 2008, compared to $1.04 in last years first quarter.  Net income for the quarter decreased 49.6 percent to $120 million.
PLANO, Texas, May 15, 2008
 
Our financial performance in the first quarter was clearly impacted by the weakened consumer environment, said Myron E. (Mike) Ullman III, chairman and chief executive officer of JCPenney.  We are fortunate in this economic climate to have strong financial flexibility, which enables us to continue to deliver a highly compelling shopping experience.  Looking ahead, we will continue to take the necessary actions to align our business plans with the expectation that conditions will remain difficult for the remainder of 2008.  Accordingly, inventory will be managed through appropriate pricing actions on existing merchandise and by reducing our future merchandise commitments to better balance our inventory position with expected sales levels.
 
At its April Analyst Meeting, management provided details of its Bridge Plan designed to allow the Company to successfully navigate through the current environment and position itself to benefit when conditions become more favorable.  Including a reduced store opening and renovation plan and rigorous control over operating expenses, the Bridge Plan is focused on balancing the Companys long-term growth opportunities with the near-term pressures of the consumer environment.
 
Mr. Ullman said, We recognize that it is more critical than ever to provide merchandise innovation, smart prices and a great shopping experience that clearly differentiates us from the competition.  To this end, throughout the course of 2008 our customers will see an exceptional array of new brands, such as Decree and Fabulosity in juniors and Linden Street and Dorm Life in home.  Together with the enhanced service our Associates are providing under our new CustomerFIRST initiative, these innovations will reinforce why JCPenney should be their first choice and allow us to increase market share when the environment improves.
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Performance
 
During the first quarter, total sales decreased 5.1 percent.  Comparable store sales decreased 7.4 percent and were at the favorable end of the Companys revised guidance for a high-single digit decrease.  Since the first quarter of last year, the Company has opened 54 new and relocated stores, including 11 stores opened in this years first quarter.  Although sales weakness was broad-based in terms of merchandise categories and geography, the best merchandise results were in mens apparel and family footwear, with continued softness in most home categories and fine jewelry.  Geographically, the best performances were in the northeast and central regions.  Internet sales through increased 8.7 percent on top of an 18 percent increase in last years first quarter.
www.jcp.com
 
For the quarter, operating income declined 360 basis points to 6.0 percent of sales, reflecting pressure on both gross margin and SG&A expenses.  Gross margin decreased by 150 basis points to 40.0 percent of sales, which reflects the soft sales environment and pricing action taken to clear merchandise in season.  SG&A expenses were well-managed, but were not leveraged.  Expense increases associated with new stores and our CustomerFIRST initiative were largely offset by lower store salary expenses from the use of our jTime workforce management tool.  Including the impacts of depreciation and amortization expense, pre-opening expenses and income from ongoing real estate operations, total operating expenses increased by 210 basis points to 34.0 percent of sales in the quarter.  First quarter operating income was $248 million, compared to last years $419 million.
 
Interest expense for the quarter was $53 million, and the tax rate was 38.5 percent.
 
Financial Condition
 
The Company continues to maintain a strong financial position.  As of May 3, 2008, the Company had cash and short-term investments of $1.9 billion and long-term debt of $3.7 billion, including current maturities of approximately $200 million.
 
Capital expenditures for the first quarter were $269 million, in line with expectations, with the majority of spending related to the construction of new stores and the renovation of existing stores.
 
Merchandise inventories ended the quarter at $3.7 billion, reflecting increases associated with 54 new stores opened since last years first quarter.
 
 
 
 
 
Second Quarter Earnings Guidance
 
Managements second quarter guidance is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call/Webcast Details
 
Management will host a live conference call and real-time web cast today, May 15, 2008, beginning at 9:30 a.m. ET.  Access to the conference call is open to the press and general public in a listen only mode.  To access the conference call, please dial (877) 407-0778 and reference the JCPenney Quarterly Earnings Conference Call.  The telephone playback will be available for two days beginning approximately two hours after the conclusion of the call by dialing (877) 660-6853, account code 286, and pass code 284824.  The live web cast may be accessed via JCPenneys Investor Relations page at , or on (for members) and (for media and individual investors).  Replays of the webcast will be available for up to 90 days after the event.
www.jcpenney.net
www.streetevents.com
www.earnings.com
 
 
For further information, contact:
 
 
Investor Relations
Bob Johnson; (972) 431-2217;
rvjohnso
@jcpenn
ey.com
Phil Sanchez; (972) 431-5575;
psanc3@jcpenney.com
Kristin Hays; (972) 431-1261;
klhays@jcpenney.com
 
Media Relations
Darcie Brossart or Quinton Crenshaw; (972) 431-3400;
jcpcorpcomm@jcpenney.com
 
 
 
About JCPenney
 
JCPenney is one of America's leading retailers, operating 1,074 department stores throughout the United States and Puerto Rico, as well as one of the largest apparel and home furnishing sites on the Internet, jcp.com, and the nation's largest general merchandise catalog business. Through these integrated channels, JCPenney offers a wide array of national, private and exclusive brands which reflect the Company's commitment to providing customers with style and quality at a smart price. Traded as "JCP" on the New York Stock Exchange, the Company posted revenue of $19.9 billion in 2007 and is executing its strategic plan to be the growth leader in the retail industry. Key to this strategy is JCPenney's "Every Day Matters" brand positioning, intended to generate deeper, more emotionally driven relationships with customers by fully engaging the Company's 155,000 Associates to offer encouragement, provide ideas and inspire customers every time they shop with JCPenney.
 
This release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements, which reflect the Company's current views of future events and financial performance, involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause the Company's actual results to be materially different from planned or expected results. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions, including inflation, recession, consumer spending patterns and debt levels, the cost of goods, trade restrictions, changes in tariff, freight, paper and postal rates, changes in the cost of fuel and other energy and transportation costs, competition and retail industry consolidations, interest rate fluctuations, dollar and other currency valuations, risks associated with war, an act of terrorism or pandemic, and a systems failure and/or security breach that results in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer, employee or Company information.  Please refer to the Company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties. Investors should take such risks into account when making investment decisions. We do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements as of any future date.
 
 
 
 
 


