FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20081114091854.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 431-1000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 J. C. Penney Company, Inc. issued an earnings press release on November 14, 2008, announcing its third quarter results of operations and financial condition. This information is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
   
 
 
 
Item 9.01         Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
                                                          
      
Date:  November 14, 2008
 
 
 
                             
Exhibit Number
Description
99.1                                  J. C. Penney Company, Inc. News Release issued November 14, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Third Quarter Highlights
-- J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE:JCP) reported earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.55 for the third quarter ended Nov. 1, 2008, compared with $1.17 in last years third quarter.  Net income for the 2008 third quarter was $124 million versus $261 million last year.
PLANO, Texas, Nov. 14, 2008
We believe that JCPenney continues to be well positioned in a very challenging retail environment, said Myron E. (Mike) Ullman, III, chairman and chief executive officer.   As sales have been impacted by lower consumer spending and declining mall traffic, we have been effective in reducing SG&A expenses without compromising our customer experience and in managing our inventories to appropriate levels.  Over the course of the third quarter, we have also executed initiatives that bring newness, excitement and convenience for customers into our stores, catalogs and jcp.com.
For the Christmas shopping season, our gift assortment, including our redbox gifts collection, is more exciting and robust than ever and will allow our customers to make these holidays memorable, special and affordable for their families.  We are supporting our holiday assortment through a comprehensive marketing campaign that clearly demonstrates JCPenneys unique value proposition of exceptional style and quality at very affordable prices.
TM
During the quarter, the Company announced that it will launch two new exclusive brands for spring 2009:  I Heart Ronson, a complete womens fashion sportswear line designed by
 
 
Charlotte Ronson, one of todays hottest designers; and ALLEN B., a  womens fashion sportswear and dress collection for the trendy lifestyle customer from Master of Trend Allen B. Schwartz.  These new additions will complement other recent brand launches to which customers have responded well, highlighted by the re-launches of Worthington and Stafford, two of Americas largest career wear brands.
Mr. Ullman added, With the expectation that challenging conditions will persist well into 2009, we will be planning our business accordingly.  The execution of our Bridge Plan ensures that our strategies directly reflect economic realities while we capitalize on opportunities to maintain and build our market share.  Specifically, the continuation of vigilant expense control, inventory management in alignment with expected sales trends, and maintaining our financial strength will position our Company to regain its growth trajectory when the environment improves.
Operating Performance in the Third Quarter
During the third quarter, total sales decreased 8.7 percent.  Comparable store sales decreased 10.1 percent, which was in line with the Companys revised guidance for a low-double digit decrease.  The best sales performance was in womens and childrens apparel and family shoes, with continued weakness in home and fine jewelry.  Geographically, the best performances were in the northeast and central regions while the southeast and southwest regions were the softest.  Internet sales through decreased 0.3 percent compared with an 11.8 percent increase in the same quarter last year.
www.jcp.com
For the third quarter, operating income declined 280 basis points to 5.9 percent of sales.  Gross margin decreased by 120 basis points to 38.5 percent of sales as a result of increased clearance activity taken in response to softer sales and to achieve desired inventory levels.    Total operating expenses, including the impacts of depreciation and amortization expense, pre-opening expenses and income from ongoing real estate operations, decreased by $59 million versus 2007 and continued to be well managed across the entire organization.  Real estate and other included a benefit of approximately $0.02 per share from the sale of non-operating real estate during the quarter.  Due to lower sales volume, total operating expenses increased by 160 basis points to 32.6 percent of sales in the quarter.  Third quarter operating income was $255 million, compared with last years $411 million.
Interest expense for the quarter was $56 million, and the tax rate was 38.2 percent.
 
 
 
Strong Financial Condition
The Company continues to be in a strong financial position.  As of Nov. 1, 2008, the Company had cash and short-term investments of $1.6 billion and long-term debt of $3.5 billion.
Capital expenditures for the third quarter of 2008 were $242 million, in line with the Companys Bridge Plan, with the majority of spending related to the construction of new stores and the renovation of existing stores.
Total merchandise inventories decreased 5.6 percent versus last year to $4.5 billion, reflecting the Companys ongoing efforts to reduce inventory to be aligned with expected sales trends.  On a comparable store basis, inventories decreased approximately 9 percent compared to the same period last year.
Store Opening and Renovation Update
During the third quarter, the Company opened 12 new stores, including 11 in the off-mall format.  These openings bring the total of new and relocated stores for the year to 35, which completes the 2008 new store program objectives of the Companys Bridge Plan.  After relocations and store closures, JCPenney opened 26 net new stores in 2008.  In addition, the Company has completed extensive renovations of 21 stores, three store expansions, and refurbishments and upgrades to 90 other stores across the country.  Included in these upgrades is the continued rollout of Sephora inside JCPenney, of which there are currently a total of 91 locations.  Ten of these locations opened during the third quarter.  The Company is currently planning to open an additional 64 Sephora inside JCPenney locations in 2009.
Fourth Quarter Sales and Earnings Guidance
Managements fourth quarter guidance is as follows:
 
 
 
Conference Call/Webcast Details
Management will host a live conference call and real-time web cast today, Nov. 14, 2008, beginning at 9:30 a.m. ET.  Access to the conference call is open to the press and general public in a listen only mode.  To access the conference call, please dial (877) 407-0778 and reference the JCPenney Quarterly Earnings Conference Call.  The telephone playback will be available for two days beginning approximately two hours after the conclusion of the call by dialing (877) 660-6853, account code 286, and pass code 284828.  The live web cast may be accessed via JCPenneys Investor Relations page at , or on (for members) and (for media and individual investors).  Replays of the webcast will be available for up to 90 days after the event.
www.jcpenney.net
www.streetevents.com
www.earnings.com
 
For further information:
Investor Relations
Phil Sanchez; (972) 431-5575;
psanc3@jcpenney.com
Kristin Hays; (972) 431-1261;
klhays@jcpenney.com
 
Media Relations
Darcie Brossart; (972) 431-3400
jcpcorpcomm@jcpenney.com
 
Corporate Website
www.jcpenney.net
About JCPenney
JCPenney is one of America's leading retailers, operating 1,093 department stores throughout the United States and Puerto Rico, as well as one of the largest apparel and home furnishing sites on the Internet, jcp.com, and the nation's largest general merchandise catalog business. Through these integrated channels, JCPenney offers a wide array of national, private and exclusive brands which reflect the Company's commitment to providing customers with style and quality at a smart price. Traded as "JCP" on the New York Stock Exchange, the Company posted revenue of $19.9 billion in 2007 and is executing its strategic plan to be the growth leader in the retail industry. Key to this strategy is JCPenney's "Every Day Matters" brand positioning, intended to generate deeper, more emotionally driven relationships with customers by fully engaging the Company's 155,000 Associates to offer encouragement, provide ideas and inspire customers every time they shop with JCPenney.
This release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements, which reflect the Company's current views of future events and financial performance, involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause the Company's actual results to be materially different from planned or expected results. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions, including inflation, recession, consumer spending patterns, credit availability and debt levels, the cost of goods, trade restrictions, changes in tariff, freight, paper and postal rates, changes in the cost of fuel and other energy and transportation costs, competition and retail industry consolidations, interest rate fluctuations, dollar and other currency valuations, risks associated with war, an act of terrorism or pandemic, and a systems failure and/or security breach that results in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer, employee or Company information.  Please refer to the Company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties. Investors should take such risks into account when making investment decisions. We do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements as of any future date.
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
2


