FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20080307172454.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 431-1000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
  Joanne L. Bober, J. C. Penney Company, Inc.s (Company) Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, has decided to retire effective March 31, 2008 from that position in order to serve on outside boards and pursue community service, teaching and other areas of interest. At the Companys request, she will continue as an employee in an Of Counsel role, serving at the pleasure of the Companys Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), to provide legal advice to senior officers of the Company on specific projects. In that role, she will continue to receive her base salary.
(b)
  Pursuant to the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Management Incentive Compensation Program (Incentive Program), annual cash incentive compensation is awarded to eligible associates based upon the achievement of pre-set performance goals. For the Companys named executive officers identified in the Summary Compensation Table of the Companys Proxy Statement, incentive compensation payouts for 2007 were based (i) 50% on total Company sales and operating profit from continuing operations, and (ii) 50% on the named executive officers individual performance. To receive any award under the Incentive Program, however, the Company had to achieve a minimum level of operating profit performance. Based on the Companys fiscal 2007 operating profit result, the Incentive Program payment amount for fiscal 2007 was zero.
(e)
(1) 2007 Incentive Compensation Awards, 2008 Base Salaries, 2008 Target Incentive Opportunity Percentages, and 2008 Equity Awards.
On March 7, 2008, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors determined the 2008 base salaries, the 2008 target incentive opportunity percentages under the Incentive Program, and the 2008 equity award values for the Companys named executive officers other than the CEO, which are set forth in the table below. For 2008, the Committee determined that the named executive officers equity values should be delivered half in the form of stock options, one-quarter as performance-based restricted stock units, and one-quarter as time-based restricted stock units. In accordance with the Committees equity award grant policies, the annual grant of equity awards will be effective on March 12, 2008.
As previously reported in the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 26, 2008, the 2008 compensation arrangements for the CEO were determined by the independent members of the Board of Directors on February 27, 2008.
 
 
 
For 2008, the independent members of the Board have modified the structure of the Incentive Program to provide that each component of the award (sales, operating profit, and individual performance) will have a separate payout. The sales and operating profit payouts will be determined in accordance with the respective matrices for such components. The individual component will be funded at the discretion of the CEO for participants who are not executive officers. The Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board has discretion over the funding of the individual component for executive officers and the independent members of the Board have discretion over the funding of the individual component for the CEO.
These determinations will be discussed in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis section of the Companys 2008 Proxy Statement, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and posted on the Companys website.
The Company has updated its Forms of Notice of Grant to be used in connection with grants of stock options and performance-based restricted stock units under the Companys 2005 Equity Compensation Plan, and has adopted a new Form of Notice of Grant to be used in connection with grants of time-based restricted stock units under such plan. Copies of the respective Forms of Notice of Grant are filed herewith as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3 and are incorporated herein by reference.
(2) Forms of Grant Notice.
 
Item 9.01(d) 
  
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
By:
/s/ Michael T. Theilmann          
Michael T. Theilmann
Executive Vice President,
Chief Human Resources and
Administration Officer
 
 
Date: March 7, 2008
 
 
Exhibit 10.1  Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Options under the J. C. Penney Company,
   
   
   Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan
   
   
   
  
 
Exhibit 10.2  Form of Notice of Restricted Stock Unit Grant under the J. C. Penney
   
   
Company, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan
Exhibit 10.3  Form of Notice of 2008 Performance Unit Grant under the J. C. Penney
   
   
Company, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan

              Exhibit 10.1
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
JCPenney   
   
   
   
 
Notice of 2008 Stock Option Grant
 
J. C. Penney Company, Inc.
2005 Equity
Compensation Plan
This Notice of Non-Qualified (also known as "Non-Statutory") Stock Option ("NSO") gives you the right to purchase the total number of shares of Common Stock of 50 par value ("Common Stock") of J. C. Penney Company, Inc. ("Company") at the option grant price per share as shown above. This option is subject to all the terms, rules, and conditions of the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (Plan) and the implementing resolutions (Resolutions) approved by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in the Plan and the Resolutions. In the event of a change in the capitalization of the Company or other similar event, the option grant price and number of shares shall be adjusted as provided in the Plan.
Terms of Exercise
Effective Exercise Date
When an option exercise instruction is given in conjunction with a sell order for the underlying stock that is an Exercise-and-Sell to Cover , an Exercise-and-Sell Order, a Limit Order or a Good til Cancelled Order, the effective exercise date shall be the date on which such sale order is executed. For a Cash Payment (Exercise and Hold) transaction, the effective exercise date shall be the date the requisite funds are received by the Company at its home office in Plano, Texas, or such other location as the Company may designate, or by a third party duly designated by the Company at the offices of such third party. For a Stock Payment transaction, the effective exercise date shall be the date the properly completed option exercise form/instructions and any necessary accompanying documents and payment are received by the Company at its home office in Plano, Texas, or such other location as the Company may designate, or by a third party duly designated by the Company at the offices of such third party. Exercise instructions received after the close of the New York Stock Exchange for the day shall be deemed received as of the opening of the next Business Day (a Business Day being any day on which the New York Stock Exchange is open and operating). An effective exercise date shall never mean a non-Business Day. If any "effective exercise date," as defined above, falls on a day Common Stock is not traded, all transactions shall be postponed until the next trading day, and the effective exercise date shall be deemed to be the next trading date, unless such day is after the (as defined below),in which case the option shall expire.
Normal Expiration Date
 
Transferability
This option may be assigned or transferred by will or the laws of descent and distribution. No Stock Option shall be exercisable except by you or (a) upon your incapacity, by your guardian or legal representative, or (b) upon your death, by the beneficiary you have designated on the J. C. Penney Company Equity Plan Beneficiary Designation Form or in the absence of such beneficiary, your legal representative (collectively, "Legal Transferees").
Date Option Becomes Exercisable
This option shall become exercisable (vest) over a three-year period in accordance with the following schedule:
This option shall be 100% vested on the third anniversary of the Date of Grant.
However, 100% of this option becomes immediately exercisable, without regard to these dates, upon a "Change of Control" (as defined in Attachment A) of the Company or an Involuntary Separation from Service without Cause under, and as defined in, the Executive Termination Pay Agreement, and a portion of this option becomes immediately exercisable, without regard to these dates, in the event of your employment termination due to Retirement, Disability, death, or job restructuring/reduction in force/unit closing as described below.
 
:
Additional Exercise Terms Of This Option Are
While you are Employed
While you are employed by the Company, subsidiary, or other entity affiliated with the Company, you may exercise vested options any time    the until the which is the 10 anniversary of the Date of Grant ().
on
or
after
Normal Vesting Dates
Expiration Date
th
"Normal Expiration Date"
 
This option can be exercised by:
 
Cash Payment Method (Exercise-and-Hold)
 
Stock Payment Method
 
Exercise-and-Sell Method
 
Exercise-and-Sell To Cover Method
 
After your Employment Termination
In all cases, the option exercise period following termination of employment cannot extend beyond the applicable date described below or the Normal Expiration Date, whichever comes first.
 Retirement at age 60 or more,
 Retirement between ages 55 and 59 with at least 15 years of service,
 
Death, or
 Disability,
before the final , you shall be entitled to a prorated number of stock options. The proration shall be based on the ratio of (a) the number of calendar days from the date of grant to the effective date of termination to (b) the total number of calendar days in the vesting period. The number of options that have already vested shall be subtracted from the prorated amount and the remaining prorated options shall become immediately exercisable. Any options which have not already vested or for which exercisability is not accelerated shall expire on such employment termination.
Normal Vesting Date
If your employment terminates due to any of the four circumstances listed above, all vested stock options may be exercised for a period of five years after employment termination or until the options , whichever comes first.
Normal Expiration Date
If your employment terminates due to a job restructuring, reduction in force or unit closing before the final , you shall be entitled to a prorated number of stock options. The proration shall be based on the ratio of (a) the number of calendar days from the date of grant to the effective date of termination to (b) the total number of calendar days in the vesting period. The number of options that have already vested shall be subtracted from the prorated amount and the remaining prorated options shall become immediately exercisable. Any options which have not already vested or for which exercisability is not accelerated shall expire on such employment termination.
2) Job Restructuring, Reduction in Force or Unit Closing:
Normal Vesting Date
If your employment terminates due to a job restructuring, reduction in force or unit closing, all vested options may be exercised for a period of two years after employment termination or until the options , whichever comes first.
Normal Expiration Date
 If your employment terminates due to your resignation, summary dismissal or resignation in lieu of summary dismissal, discretionary dismissal or resignation in lieu of a discretionary dismissal, then this option shall expire as of the date of your employment termination.
3)
Resignation, Summary Dismissal or Resignation in Lieu of Summary Dismissal, Discretionary Dismissal or Resignation in Lieu of Discretionary Dismissal (excluding Reduction In Force or Unit Closing):
 
 
   If your employment terminates due to an Involuntary Separation from Service without Cause under, and as defined, in the Executive Termination Pay Agreement, any outstanding options will vest and become immediately exercisable subject to (a) the execution and delivery of a release in such form as may be required by the Company and (b) the expiration of the applicable revocation period for such release.
4)
Involuntary
Separation from Service without Cause under the Executive Termination Pay Agreement:
 
If your employment terminates due to an Involuntary Separation from Service without Cause under, and as defined in, the Executive Termination Pay Agreement, all vested stock options may be exercised for a period of 120 days after the effective date of employment termination or until the options , whichever comes first.
Normal Expiration Date
 
This stock option grant does not constitute an employment contract. It does not guarantee employment for the length of the vesting period or for any portion thereof.
 
 
 
A Change of Control Event shall have occurred if there is a change of ownership, a change of effective control, or a change in ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company (as Company is defined in the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan).
(i) A shareholder of the Company (immediately before the asset transfer) in exchange for or with respect to its stock;
(ii) An entity, 50 percent or more of the total value or voting power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company;
(iii) A person, or more than one person acting as a group, that owns, directly or indirectly, 50 percent or more of the total value or voting power of all the outstanding stock of the Company; or
(iv) An entity, at least 50 percent of the total value or voting power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by a person described in paragraph (iii).
Persons will not be considered to be acting as a group solely because they purchase assets of the Company at the same time, or as a result of the same public offering. However persons will be considered to be acting as a group if they are owners of a corporation that enters into a merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of assets, or similar business transaction with the Company.

               
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Exhibit 10.2
JCPenney  
   
   
 
Notice of 2008 Restricted Stock Unit Grant
J. C. Penney Company, Inc.
2005 Equity
Compensation Plan
Restricted Stock Unit Grant
You have been granted the number of restricted stock units listed above in recognition of your expected future contributions to the success of JCPenney. Each restricted stock unit shall at all times be deemed to have a value equal to the then-current fair market value of one share of J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Common Stock of 50 par value (Common Stock). This grant is subject to all the terms, rules, and conditions of the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (Plan) and the implementing resolutions (Resolutions) approved by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the JCPenney Board of Directors. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in the Plan and the Resolutions. In the event of a change in capitalization of the Company or other similar event, the number of units shall be adjusted as provided in the Plan. 
Vesting of Your Restricted Stock Units
The restricted stock units shall vest, and the restrictions on your restricted stock units shall lapse, according to the following Vesting SchedulePROVIDED YOU REMAIN CONTINUOUSLY EMPLOYED BY THE COMPANY THROUGH EACH OF THE RESPECTIVE VESTING DATES (unless your employment terminates due to your Retirement, Disability, death, job restructuring/reduction in force/unit closing or an Involuntary Separation from Service without Cause under, and as defined in, the Executive Termination Pay Agreement).Your vested restricted stock units shall be paid out in shares of Common Stock as soon as practicable but in no event later than 2  months following each Vesting Date. You shall not be allowed to defer the payment of your shares of Common Stock to a later date.
,
 
 
Dividend Equivalents
You shall not have any rights as a stockholder until your restricted stock units vest and you are issued shares of Common Stock in cancellation of the vested restricted stock units. However, you will accrue dividend equivalents on the unvested restricted stock units in the amount of any quarterly dividend declared on the Common Stock. Dividend equivalents shall continue to accrue until your restricted stock units vest and you receive actual shares of Common Stock in cancellation of the vested restricted stock units. The dividend equivalents shall be credited as additional restricted stock units in your account to be paid out in shares of Common Stock on each applicable Vesting Date along with the restricted stock units to which they relate. The number of additional restricted stock units to be credited to your account shall be determined by dividing the aggregate dividend payable with respect to the number of restricted stock units in your account by the closing price of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the dividend payment date. The additional restricted stock units credited to your account are subject to all of the terms and conditions of this restricted stock unit award and the Plan and you shall forfeit your additional restricted stock units in the event that you forfeit the restricted stock units to which they relate.
Employment Termination
If your employment terminates due to Retirement, Disability, death or job restructuring/reduction in force/unit closing prior to the vesting date, you shall be entitled to a prorated number of restricted stock units. The proration shall be based on the ratio of (a) the number of calendar days from the date of grant to the effective date of termination to (b) the total number of calendar days in the vesting period. The number of restricted stock units that have already vested shall be subtracted from the prorated amount and the remaining prorated restricted stock units shall immediately vest. Any restricted stock units which have not already vested or for which vesting is not accelerated shall be cancelled on such employment termination. The beneficiary listed on your J. C. Penney Company Equity Plan Beneficiary Designation Form shall receive the vested shares covered by the restricted stock unit award in the case of termination of employment due to death.
If your employment terminates due to an Involuntary Separation from Service without Cause under, and as defined in, the Executive Termination Pay Agreement, any outstanding restricted stock units shall immediately vest and be payable in shares of JCPenney Common Stock, subject to (a) the execution and delivery of a release in such form as may be required by the Company and (b) the expiration of the applicable revocation period for such release.
If your employment terminates for any reason other than those specified above, any unvested restricted stock units shall be cancelled on the effective date of termination.
 
Change of Control
 
The restricted stock unit award vests immediately without regard to the vesting dates listed above upon a Change of Control of the Company (as defined in Attachment A).
 
Taxes and Withholding
At the time your restricted stock units vest and you are issued shares of Common Stock or cash in lieu of fractional shares, the fair market value of the shares of Common Stock issued to you shall be included in your W-2 form and the Company shall be required to withhold applicable taxes on such amount. Your withholding rate with respect to this award may not be higher than the minimum statutory rate. The Company shall retain and cancel the number of issued shares equal to the value of the required minimum tax withholding in payment of the required minimum tax withholding due. For purposes of this grant notice, fair market value means the closing price of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange, or if the Exchange is closed on the applicable date, or if the Common Stock does not trade on such date, the closing price of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day immediately preceding such date.
Transferability
of Your Restricted Stock Units
The restricted stock unit granted hereunder is non-transferable.
Effect on Other Benefits
The value of the shares covered by the restricted stock unit award shall not be included as compensation or earnings for purposes of any other compensation, retirement, or benefit plan offered to Company associates.
Administration
The Committee has full authority and discretion, subject only to the terms of the Plan, to decide all matters relating to the administration and interpretation of the Plan and this restricted stock unit award. The Committees determinations shall be final, conclusive, and binding on you and your heirs, legatees and designees.
This restricted stock unit grant does not constitute an employment contract. It does not guarantee employment for the length of the vesting period or for any portion thereof.
A Change of Control Event shall have occurred if there is a change of ownership, a change of effective control, or a change in ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company (as Company is defined in the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan).
(i) A shareholder of the Company (immediately before the asset transfer) in exchange for or with respect to its stock;
(ii) An entity, 50 percent or more of the total value or voting power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company;
(iii) A person, or more than one person acting as a group, that owns, directly or indirectly, 50 percent or more of the total value or voting power of all the outstanding stock of the Company; or
(iv) An entity, at least 50 percent of the total value or voting power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by a person described in paragraph (iii).
Persons will not be considered to be acting as a group solely because they purchase assets of the Company at the same time, or as a result of the same public offering. However persons will be considered to be acting as a group if they are owners of a corporation that enters into a merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of assets, or similar business transaction with the Company.

              Exhibit 10.3
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
JCPenney  
   
   
  
Notice of 2008 Performance Unit Grant
J. C. Penney Company, Inc.
2005 Equity
Compensation Plan
You have been granted the number of Performance Units listed above in recognition of your expected future contributions to the success of JCPenney. This Performance Unit grant is a target award, which may increase or decrease based on the Companys actual results for the Performance Cycle as set forth in the Payout Matrix established by the independent members of the JCPenney Board of Directors. This grant is subject to all the terms, rules, and conditions of the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (Plan) and the implementing resolutions (Resolutions) approved by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee (Committee) of the Board. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in the Plan and the Resolutions. In the event of a change in capitalization of the Company or other similar event, the number of units shall be adjusted as provided in the Plan.
Definitions
- Disability means totally and permanently disabled within the meaning of the Social Security Act, provided you either (a) qualified for disability insurance benefits under such Act, or (b) in the opinion of the organization that administers the Companys disability plans, you have a disability which entitles you to such disability insurance benefits except for the fact that you do not have sufficient quarters of coverage or have not satisfied any age requirements under such law.
Disability
- The payout matrix is established by the independent members of the Board at the beginning of the Performance Cycle and describes the percentage of units you shall earn based on the Companys actual EPS for the Performance Cycle.
Payout Matrix
- The performance units granted under this program are restricted stock units with both performance-based and time-based vesting features. Each performance unit shall at all times be deemed to have a value equal to the then-current fair market value of one share of J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Common Stock of 50 par value (Common Stock). You can earn from 0% to 200% of the units granted based on the Companys actual results for the Performance Cycle.
Performance Units
- The performance cycle is a one-year period beginning on the first day of the Companys fiscal year and ending on the last day of the fiscal year.
Performance Cycle
-The Performance Measurement is the Companys Diluted Earnings Per Share from continuing operations (EPS) over the Performance Cycle.  The Committee, based on objective criteria selected by the Committee may, in its sole discretion and in compliance with Internal Revenue Service regulations, adjust EPS.  Such adjustments may include, but are not limited to, extraordinary items as defined under APB No. 30 (as amended), or other items that are not reflective of normal ongoing operations, such as: asset impairments and write-downs; the effects of losses, or gains as a result of  natural, or man made disasters; litigation and claims judgments; legal or tax settlements;  the effects of tax law changes; changes in accounting or the application of new accounting standards; the effects of restructuring or reorganization programs, including refinancing, debt or common stock repurchases, or other capital restructurings;  gains or losses, realized or unrealized on real estate investments, or assets held for sale.
Performance Measurement
Retirement means your separation from service either (1) at or after age 60 or (2) at or after age 55 with at least 15 years of service with JCPenney or any of its subsidiaries.
Retirement
How Your Actual Performance Units are Determined
The Companys EPS for fiscal 2008 shall determine the actual number of Performance Units, if any, that are credited to your account. The Payout Matrix shown below indicates the percentage of Performance Units that shall be credited for the respective EPS amounts.
 
The actual number of Performance Units that you earn shall be credited to your account as soon as practicable but in no event later than 2  months after the end of the Performance Cycle.
Vesting of Your Credited Performance Units
The actual Performance Units credited to your account shall vest, and the restrictions on your Performance Units shall lapse, according to the following Vesting SchedulePROVIDED YOU REMAIN CONTINUOUSLY EMPLOYED BY THE COMPANY THROUGH EACH OF THE RESPECTIVE VESTING DATES (unless your employment terminates due to your Retirement, Disability, death, job restructuring/reduction in force/unit closing or an Involuntary Separation from Service without Cause under, and as defined in, the Executive Termination Pay Agreement).Your vested Performance Units shall be paid out in shares of Common Stock as soon as practicable but in no event later than 2  months following each Vesting Date. You shall not be allowed to defer the payment of your shares of Common Stock to a later date.
,
 
 
Dividend Equivalents
You shall not have any rights as a stockholder until your Performance Units vest and you are issued shares of Common Stock in cancellation of the vested Performance Units. However, after your earned Performance Units have been credited to your account, you shall begin to accrue dividend equivalents on such Performance Units in the amount of any quarterly dividend declared on the Common Stock. Dividend equivalents shall continue to accrue until your Performance Units vest and you receive actual shares of Common Stock in cancellation of the vested Performance Units. The dividend equivalents shall be credited as additional Performance Units in your account to be paid out in shares of Common Stock on each applicable Vesting Date along with the Performance Units to which they relate. The number of additional Performance Units to be credited to your account shall be determined by dividing the aggregate dividend payable with respect to the number of Performance Units in your account by the closing price of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the dividend payment date. The additional Performance Units credited to your account are subject to all of the terms and conditions of this Performance Unit award and the Plan and you shall forfeit your additional Performance Units in the event that you forfeit the Performance Units to which they relate.
Employment Termination
If your employment terminates during the Performance Cycle because of Retirement, Disability, death or job restructuring/reduction in force/unit closing, then you shall be entitled to a prorated number of the Performance Units earned in accordance with the Payout Matrix, determined as of the end of the Performance Cycle. The proration shall be based on the ratio of (a) the number of calendar days from the date of grant to the effective date of termination to (b) the total number of calendar days in the vesting period. Any Performance Units earned under this termination provision, shall be immediately vested and delivered in shares of JCPenney Common Stock within 2  months following the end of the Performance Cycle.
If your employment terminates following the end of the Performance Cycle because of Retirement, Disability, death or job restructuring/reduction in force/unit closing, you shall be entitled to a prorated number of the Performance Units earned under the Payout Matrix. The proration shall be based on the ratio of (a) the number of calendar days from the date of grant to the effective date of termination to (b) the total number of calendar days in the vesting period. Any Performance Units that have already vested shall be subtracted from the prorated amount and the remaining prorated Performance Units shall vest immediately and be delivered as shares of JCPenney Common Stock as soon as practicable but in no event later than 2  months following your termination date. Any Performance Units which have not already vested or for which vesting is not accelerated shall expire on such employment termination. The beneficiary listed on your J. C. Penney Company Equity Plan Beneficiary Designation Form shall receive the vested shares covered by the Performance Unit award in the case of termination of employment due to death.
If your employment terminates due to an Involuntary Separation from Service without Cause under, and as defined in, the Executive Termination Pay Agreement, any outstanding Performance Units shall immediately vest and be payable in shares of JCPenney Common Stock, in an amount equal to (1) if termination occurs prior to the end of the Performance Cycle, the target number of Performance Units for such Performance Cycle, and (2) if the termination occurs after the end of the Performance Cycle, the number of Performance Units earned for such Performance Cycle, subject to (a) the execution and delivery of a release in such form as may be required by the Company and (b) the expiration of the applicable revocation period for such release.
If your employment terminates for any reason other than Retirement, Disability, death, job restructuring/reduction in force/unit closing, or Involuntary Separation from Service without Cause under, and as defined in, the Executive Termination Pay Agreement you shall forfeit any unearned and/or unvested Performance Units at the time of such employment termination.
Change of Control
If a Change of Control (as defined in Attachment A to this Notice of Grant) occurs during the Performance Cycle, any outstanding Performance Units shall immediately vest and be payable in shares of JCPenney Common Stock, in an amount equal to (1) if a Change of Control occurs prior to the end of the Performance Cycle, the target number of Performance Units for such Performance Cycle, and (2) if the Change of Control occurs after the end of the Performance Cycle, the number of Performance Units earned for such Performance Cycle.
Taxes and Withholding
At the time your Performance Units vest and you are issued shares of Common Stock or cash in lieu of fractional shares, the fair market value of the shares of Common Stock issued to you shall be included in your W-2 form and the Company shall be required to withhold applicable taxes on such amount. Your withholding rate with respect to this award may not be higher than the minimum statutory rate. The Company shall retain and cancel the number of issued shares equal to the value of the required minimum tax withholding in payment of the required minimum tax withholding due. For purposes of this grant notice, fair market value means the closing price of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange, or if the Exchange is closed on the applicable date, or if the Common Stock does not trade on such date, the closing price of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day immediately preceding such date.
Transferability of Your Performance Units
The Performance Units awarded hereunder are non-transferable.
 
 
 
 
 
Effect on Other Benefits
The value of the shares covered by the Performance Unit award shall not be included as compensation or earnings for purposes of any other compensation, retirement, or benefit plan offered to Company associates.
Administration
The Committee has full authority and discretion, subject only to the terms of the Plan, to decide all matters relating to the administration and interpretation of the Plan and this Performance Unit award. The Committees determinations shall be final, conclusive, and binding on you and your heirs, legatees and designees.
This performance unit grant does not constitute an employment contract. It does not guarantee employment for the length of the vesting period or for any portion thereof.
For EPS results that fall in between the intervals shown above, the payout percent increases approximately 2% for each $0.01 above target and decreases approximately 2% for each $0.01 of EPS below target.
A Change of Control Event shall have occurred if there is a change of ownership, a change of effective control, or a change in ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company (as Company is defined in the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan).
(i) A shareholder of the Company (immediately before the asset transfer) in exchange for or with respect to its stock;
(ii) An entity, 50 percent or more of the total value or voting power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company;
(iii) A person, or more than one person acting as a group, that owns, directly or indirectly, 50 percent or more of the total value or voting power of all the outstanding stock of the Company; or
(iv) An entity, at least 50 percent of the total value or voting power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by a person described in paragraph (iii).
Persons will not be considered to be acting as a group solely because they purchase assets of the Company at the same time, or as a result of the same public offering. However persons will be considered to be acting as a group if they are owners of a corporation that enters into a merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of assets, or similar business transaction with the Company.


