FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20081023141825.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 431-1000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 8.01                      Other Events.
On October 23, 2008, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (the Company) Board of Directors adopted the Companys Executive Severance Arrangements Policy (the Policy). The Policy provides that the Company will not enter into a future severance agreement with a senior executive that provides for severance benefits in an amount exceeding 2.99 times the sum of the senior executives annual base salary as in effect immediately prior to the date of the senior executives termination of employment and target bonus for the fiscal year in which the termination of employment occurs unless such agreement receives approval of the stockholders of the Company. The Policy applies only to future severance agreements. Future severance agreements do not include existing severance agreements unless the severance agreement is materially modified.  The Board of Directors retains the right to amend the Policy and will promptly disclose any amendment.
The foregoing description of the Policy is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Policy. A copy of the Policy is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
      
Date: October 23, 2008
 
 
 
 
                                          

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
It is the policy of the Board of Directors of J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (the Company), pursuant to  resolution adopted by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board on 2008 (the Adoption Date), that the Company shall not enter into a Future Severance Agreement that provides for Severance Benefits to a Senior Executive in an amount exceeding the Severance Benefits Limitation, unless such Future Severance Agreement receives approval of the stockholders of the Company. For purposes of this Policy, the terms below shall have the following meanings:
October 23,
 
: (i) lump sum cash payments (including payments in lieu of medical and other benefits), gross-up tax payments, new awards of stock or options and fringe benefits, (ii) the estimated present value of special retirement payments or benefits, and (iii) consulting fees (including reimbursable expenses).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term (a) compensation and benefits earned, accrued or otherwise provided for services rendered through the date of termination of employment, including pro rata portions of bonus and other incentive awards for current performance periods, (b) payments or payouts of options, SARs, restricted shares and other compensation and benefits, the right to which vests prior to the date of termination of employment, (c) the value of accelerated vesting of, or payments with respect to, any outstanding equity-based award granted prior to termination of employment, (d) retirement benefits earned or accrued under qualified or non-qualified retirement plans, and (e) payments that the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors determines are reasonable settlements of claims that could be made by the Senior Executive.
"Severance Benefits" means
"Severance Benefits" does not include
 
means an employment agreement or severance agreement that is entered into or materially modified after the Adoption Date, but excluding any automatic extension or renewal made after the Adoption Date to an employment agreement or severance agreement that is in effect as of the Adoption Date.
"Future Severance Agreement"
 
means a person who is or becomes at the time of execution of the Future Severance Agreement an executive officer of the Company required to be identified in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K.
"Senior Executive"
 
means 2.99 times the sum of (a) the Senior Executive's annual base salary as in effect immediately prior to the date of the Senior Executive's termination of employment plus (b) the Senior Executives target bonus for the fiscal year in which termination of employment occurs.
"Severance Benefits Limitation"
 
The Board delegates to the Human Resources and Compensation Committee full authority to make determinations regarding the interpretation of the provisions of this Policy, in its sole discretion, including, without limitation, the determination of the value of any non-cash items, as well as the present value of any cash or non-cash benefits payable over a period of time. In the event that a proposed Future Severance Agreement with a Senior Executive would require stockholder approval in accordance with this Policy, the Company may seek stockholder approval of the Future Severance Agreement after the material terms have been agreed upon with the Senior Executive, but the payment of any Severance Benefits in excess of the Severance Benefits Limitation will be contingent upon stockholder approval of the Future Severance Agreement.
 
The Board of Directors shall have the right to amend, waive or cancel this Policy at any time if it determines in its sole discretion that such action would be in the best interests of the Company, provided that any such action shall be promptly disclosed.


