FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20091113091148.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 431-1000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (the Company) issued an earnings press release on
November 13, 2009, announcing its third quarter results of operations and financial condition. This information is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The press release provides certain information regarding free cash flow, adjusted operating income, adjusted income from continuing operations and adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations, all of which may be considered non-GAAP financial measures under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The press release includes a reconciliation of each such non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.
We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations less capital expenditures and dividends paid, plus proceeds from sale of assets. We believe that free cash flow is a relevant indicator of our ability to repay maturing debt, revise our dividend policy or fund other uses of capital that we believe will enhance stockholder value. Free cash flow is limited and does not represent remaining cash flows available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt maturities and other obligations or payments made for business acquisitions.
 
We define (i) adjusted operating income as operating income excluding the non-cash impact of the qualified pension plan and (ii) adjusted income from continuing operations and adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations as income from continuing operations and earnings per share from continuing operations, respectively, excluding the after-tax non-cash impact of the qualified pension plan.  We believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income, adjusted income from continuing operations, and adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations, which our management use to assess our operating results, is useful in order to better understand the operating performance of our core business, provide enhanced visibility into our selling, general and administrative expense structure and to facilitate the comparison of our results to the results of our peer companies.  Unlike our primary operating expenses, pension expense is determined using numerous complex assumptions about changes in pension assets and liabilities that are subject to factors, such as market volatility, that are beyond our control. We believe it is useful to investors to understand the impact of the non-cash qualified pension expense on our results of operations by providing more meaningful year-over-year comparisons.
We believe it is important to view each of these non-GAAP financial measures in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, the GAAP measures of cash flows from operating activities, operating income, income from continuing operations, and earnings per share from continuing operations, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:  November 13, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
                           
Exhibit Number
Description
99.1                                  J. C. Penney Company, Inc. News Release issued November 13, 2009

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Third Quarter Highlights
-- J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE: JCP) today reported fiscal third quarter results that were significantly better than initial expectations and showed further improvement in cash flow performance, reflecting the continued successful execution of its Bridge Plan strategy.  The Company continues to be in a strong financial position, ending the quarter with a cash and cash equivalents balance of $2.1 billion.  Based on the Companys better than expected year to date operating performance, as well as current expectations for the fourth quarter, management is raising its full year guidance for both comparable store sales and earnings per share.
PLANO, Texas, Nov. 13, 2009
Earnings per share for the third quarter ended Oct. 31, 2009, were $0.11, well above managements initial guidance for earnings per share to be in the range of a loss of $0.05 to earnings of $0.05.  Income from continuing operations for this years third quarter was $27 million.  This years third quarter includes a non-cash qualified pension plan expense of $73 million, or $0.19 per share after-tax.  Excluding the impact of qualified pension plan expense, adjusted income from continuing operations was $72 million, or $0.30 per share.  A reconciliation to the comparable GAAP measurement is included in this release.  Third quarter earnings per share also reflect a $0.03 charge related primarily to non-recurring real estate impairments included in real estate and other expenses.
In last years third quarter, earnings per share were $0.55, and income from continuing operations was $123 million.  Last years third quarter earnings included a qualified pension plan credit of $33 million, or $0.09 per share after-tax.  Excluding the impact of the qualified
 
 
 
 
pension plan credit from last years third quarter results, adjusted income from continuing operations was $103 million, or $0.46 per share.
JCPenneys third quarter results reflect the success of our strategy to balance top line performance with bottom line profitability, said Myron E. (Mike) Ullman, III, chairman and chief executive officer of JCPenney.  Our ability to deliver earnings above original expectations resulted from better than expected improvement in gross margin as we have maintained appropriate inventory levels and reduced both clearance selling and unprofitable discounting.  With continued investment in our Associates and our customer relationships, we are executing the right short-term and long-term strategies to maintain our financial strength and place us in a strong position for the future.
 
We expect these strategies to be particularly effective in the fourth quarter.  Our objective for this holiday season is to bring the Joy of Giving to our customers. We will be stocking our stores with a merchandise assortment that includes great gifts offered at highly competitive prices.  Combined with industry-leading customer service and a compelling promotional strategy, our customers will find the style, fashion, and quality that will once again make JCPenney the preferred destination during the holiday shopping season.
Operating Performance
Total sales in the third quarter decreased 3.2 percent compared to last year, while comparable store sales decreased 4.6 percent.  The strongest merchandise results were in shoes and womens apparel, and geographically, the best performance was in the southwest region of the country.  The weakest results were in fine jewelry and in the northwest region.
Adjusted operating income, which excludes the impact of the non-cash qualified pension plan expense from both the current and last years third quarter, decreased 18.9 percent.  As a percent of sales, third quarter adjusted operating income was 4.3 percent compared to 5.1 percent last year.  A reconciliation of non-GAAP adjusted operating income is included in this release.
For the quarter, gross margin increased 210 basis points over last year to 40.6 percent of sales.  SG&A expenses increased $56 million, in line with managements guidance for SG&A to increase 4 percent compared to last years third quarter.  As a percent of sales, SG&A increased 230 basis points to 32.9 percent of sales with the rate impacted by lower sales volume.  Qualified pension plan expense was $73 million compared to a credit of $33 million in
 
 
 
 
last years third quarter.  As a percent of sales, total operating expenses were 38.0 percent in the third quarter.
Interest expense for the quarter was $64 million, and the effective tax rate was 37.2 percent.
During the third quarter, the Company opened three new stores, all in the off-mall format.  These openings completed the 2009 new store program and brought the total of new and relocated stores for the year to 17.  The Company also added 12 Sephora inside JCPenney locations, bringing the total to 155 locations.
Financial Condition
The cash and cash equivalents balance as of the end of the third quarter of 2009 was $2.1 billion, an increase of $505 million versus last years third quarter.  For the first nine months of 2009, free cash flow improved $630 million compared with the same period last year.  Free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure, is defined as net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations less capital expenditures and dividends paid, plus proceeds from sales of assets.  A reconciliation of free cash flow to the comparable GAAP measure is included in this release.
2009 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Guidance
Based on better than expected year to date results and the fourth quarter guidance provided below, management has raised its full year expectations for comparable store sales and earnings.  For fiscal 2009, comparable store sales are now expected to decrease 6.5 to 7 percent, and earnings are expected to be in the range of $0.93 to $1.08.  The Company had previously provided, in its second quarter earnings release, expectations that full year comparable store sales would decrease approximately 7 to 7.5 percent and earnings would be in the range of $0.75 to $0.90.
Managements 2009 fourth quarter guidance is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call/Webcast Details
Management will host a live conference call and real-time webcast today, Nov. 13, 2009, beginning at 9:30 a.m. ET.  Access to the conference call is open to the press and general public in a listen only mode.  To access the conference call, please dial (877) 407-0778 and reference the JCPenney Quarterly Earnings Conference Call.  The telephone playback will be available for seven days beginning approximately two hours after the conclusion of the call by dialing (877) 660-6853, account code 286, and conference ID number 328509.  The live webcast may be accessed via JCPenneys Investor Relations page at , or on and (for members).  Replays of the webcast will be available for up to 90 days after the event.
www.jcpenney.net
www.InvestorCalendar.com
www.streetevents.com
 
For further information:
Investor Relations
Phil Sanchez; (972) 431-5575;
psanc3@jcpenney.com
Kristin Hays; (972) 431-1261;
klhays@jcpenney.com
 
Media Relations
Darcie Brossart; (972) 431-3400
jcpcorpcomm@jcpenney.com
 
Corporate Website
www.jcpenney.net
About JCPenney
JCPenney is one of America's leading retailers, operating 1,109 department stores throughout the United States and Puerto Rico, as well as one of the largest apparel and home furnishing sites on the Internet, jcp.com, and the nation's largest general merchandise catalog business. Through these integrated channels, JCPenney offers a wide array of national, private and exclusive brands which reflect the Company's commitment to providing customers with style and quality at a smart price. Traded as "JCP" on the New York Stock Exchange, the Company posted revenue of $18.5 billion in 2008 and is executing its strategic plan to be the growth leader in the retail industry. Key to this strategy is JCPenney's "Every Day Matters" brand positioning, intended to generate deeper, more emotionally driven relationships with customers by fully engaging the Company's approximately 150,000 Associates to offer encouragement, provide ideas and inspire customers every time they shop with JCPenney.
This release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements, which reflect the Company's current views of future events and financial performance, involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause the Company's actual results to be materially different from planned or expected results. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions, including inflation, recession, unemployment levels, consumer spending patterns, credit availability and debt levels, changes in store traffic trends, the cost of goods, trade restrictions, changes in tariff, freight, paper and postal rates, changes in the cost of fuel and other energy and transportation costs, increases in wage and benefit costs, competition and retail industry consolidations, interest rate fluctuations, dollar and other currency valuations, risks associated with war, an act of terrorism or pandemic, and a systems failure and/or security breach that results in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer, employee or Company information.  Please refer to the Company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings
 
 
 
 
for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties. Investors should take such risks into account when making investment decisions. We do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements as of any future date.
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
3


