FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20090317161743.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 431-1000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
   
(e)
 
2009 Annual CEO Performance Unit Grant.  
On March 11, 2009, the Committee of the Whole of the Board of Directors (Board) of J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (Company), consisting solely of the independent directors of the Board, approved a 2009 annual CEO performance unit grant for Myron E. Ullman, III, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
 
The number of performance units awarded under the grant is 149,161. The performance period for the award is three years beginning on March 16, 2009 and ending on March 15, 2012.  The performance measurement for the award is the Companys annualized total stockholder return over the performance period, with total stockholder return defined as the Companys cumulative annual stockholder returns for the performance period, assuming reinvestment of dividends on the date paid (assumed to be the ex-dividend date).  The cumulative annual stockholder returns will be calculated based on the closing price of the Companys common stock on the last trading day immediately preceding the date of grant and the 60-day trailing average stock price of the Companys common stock prior to the last day of the performance period.
 
The minimum performance level required to achieve 100% payout of the award is 11.3% annualized total stockholder return. If the annualized total stockholder return is less than 11.3%, no portion of the performance unit award will be earned. The maximum payout is 100% of the performance units awarded.
 
In the event that Mr. Ullmans employment with the Company terminates during the performance period due to retirement, death or disability, he will receive a pro-rated portion of the payout determined at the end of the performance period, if any.  The proration will be based on the ratio of (a) the number of calendar days from the date of grant to the effective date of termination to (b) the total number of calendar days in the vesting period.
 
The form of Notice of 2009 Annual CEO Performance Unit Grant is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
              
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
       
      
Date:  March 17, 2009
 
 
                                           
Exhibit Number
Description

Exhibit 10.1
JCPenney
   
   
Notice of 2009 Annual CEO Performance Unit Grant
      
J. C. Penney Company, Inc.
   
   
You have been granted the number of Performance Units listed above in recognition of your expected future contributions to the success of JCPenney.   This Performance Unit
grant is subject to all the terms, rules, and conditions of the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (Plan) and the implementing resolutions (Resolutions) approved by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee (Committee) of the Board.  Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in the Plan and the Resolutions.  In the event of a change in capitalization of the Company or other similar event, the
number of units shall be adjusted as provided in the Plan.
Definitions
 Disability means totally and permanently disabled within the meaning of the Social Security Act, provided you either (a) qualified for disability insurance benefits under such Act, or (b) in the opinion of the organization that administers the Companys disability plans, you have a disability which entitles you to such disability insurance benefits except for the fact that you do not have sufficient quarters of coverage or have not satisfied any age requirements under such law.
Disability
 The Performance Units granted under this award are restricted stock units with performance-based vesting features.  Each Performance Unit shall at all times be deemed to have a value equal to the then-current fair market value of one share of J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Common Stock of 50 par value (Common Stock).
Performance Units
 The Performance Cycle is a three-year period beginning on March 16, 2009 and ending on March 15, 2012.
Performance Cycle
The Performance Measure is the Companys annualized Total Stockholder Return over the Performance Cycle. 
Performance Measure
Retirement means your separation from service either (1) at or after age 60 or (2) at or after age 55 with at least 15 years of service with JCPenney or any of its subsidiaries.
Retirement
 The Companys cumulative annual stockholder returns, assuming reinvestment of all dividends on the date paid (assumed to be the ex-dividend date).  The Companys cumulative annual stockholder returns will be calculated based on the closing price of Common Stock on the last trading day immediately preceding the date of grant and the 60-day trailing average stock price of Common Stock prior to the last day of the Performance Cycle.
Total Stockholder Return (TSR)
Vesting of Your Performance Units
The Companys annualized TSR for the Performance Cycle shall determine whether the Performance Units granted pursuant to this award will vest.  The minimum performance level to achieve 100% payout is 11.3% annualized TSR.  If the annualized TSR is less than 11.3%, no portion of the Performance Unit award will vest and the Performance Units granted hereunder will be cancelled.  The maximum payout amount is 100% of Performance Units granted if annualized TSR is 11.3% or greater.  he vested Performance Units shall be paid in shares of Common Stock as soon as practicable, but in no event later than 2 months, after the Vesting Date.
Within 2 months following March 16, 2012 (the Vesting Date), the independent members of the Board shall approve the vesting of Performance Units, if any, based on achievement of the Performance Measure.  T
You shall not be allowed to defer the payment of your shares of Common Stock to a later date.
Dividend Equivalents
You shall not have any rights as a stockholder until your Performance Units vest and you are issued shares of Common Stock in cancellation of the vested Performance Units.
 
Employment Termination
If your employment terminates during the Performance Cycle because of Retirement, Disability or death, then you shall be entitled to a prorated number of the vested Performance Units determined as of the end of the Performance Cycle, and payable as specified above. The proration shall be based on the ratio of (a) the number of calendar days from the date of grant to the effective date of termination to (b) the total number of calendar days in the vesting period.
 
1
 
The beneficiary listed on your J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Equity Plan Beneficiary Designation Form shall receive the vested shares covered by the Performance Unit award in the case of termination of employment due to death.
If your employment terminates for any reason other than Retirement, Disability or death, you shall forfeit any unvested Performance Units at the time of such employment termination.
Change of Control
If a Change of Control (as defined in Attachment A to this Notice of Grant) occurs during the Performance Cycle, your Performance Units shall vest and be payable in shares of Common Stock based on the 60-day trailing average stock price of Common Stock prior to the closing date of the Change of Control transaction.  Such payment shall be made as soon as practicable after the closing date of the Change of Control transaction, but no later than the deadline for distribution specified in Section 7 of the Plan.
Taxes and Withholding
At the time your Performance Units vest and you are issued shares of Common Stock, the fair market value of the shares of Common Stock issued to you shall be included in your W-2 form and the Company shall be required to withhold applicable taxes on such amount.  Your withholding rate with respect to this award may not be higher than the minimum statutory rate.  To the extent permitted by the Committee and applicable laws, regulations, or accounting rules at the time of vesting, the Company shall retain and cancel the number of issued shares equal to the value of the required minimum tax withholding in payment of the required minimum tax withholding due.  For purposes of this grant notice, fair market value means the closing price of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the Vesting Date, or if the Exchange is closed on the Vesting Date, or if the Common Stock does not trade on such Vesting Date, the closing price of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day immediately preceding such date.
Transferability of Your Performance Units
The Performance Units awarded hereunder are non-transferable.
Effect on Other Benefits
The value of the shares covered by the Performance Unit award shall not be included as compensation or earnings for purposes of any other compensation, retirement, or benefit plan offered to Company associates.
Administration
The Committee has full authority and discretion, subject only to the terms of the Plan, to decide all matters relating to the administration and interpretation of the Plan and this Performance Unit award.  The Committees determinations shall be final, conclusive, and binding on you and your heirs, legatees and designees.
This Performance Unit grant does not constitute an employment contract.  It does not guarantee employment for the length of the vesting period or for any portion thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
A Change of Control Event shall have occurred if there is a change of ownership, a change of effective control, or a change in ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company (as Company is defined in the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan).
 
Persons will not be considered to be acting as a group solely because they purchase assets of the Company at the same time, or as a result of the same public offering.  However persons will be considered to be acting as a group if they are owners of a corporation that enters into a merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of assets, or similar business transaction with the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3


