FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20101112091637.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 431-1000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (the Company) issued an earnings press release on November 12, 2010 announcing its third quarter 2010 results of operations and financial condition. This information is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The press release and accompanying schedules provide certain information regarding free cash flow, adjusted operating income, adjusted net income, and adjusted earnings per share, all of which may be considered non-GAAP financial measures under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. A reconciliation of each such non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is included with the release.
 
We define free cash flow as cash flows from operating activities excluding discretionary cash contributions to the Companys primary pension plan and associated tax impact, less capital expenditures and dividends paid, plus proceeds from the sale of assets.  Adjustments to exclude discretionary pension plan contributions are more indicative of the Companys ability to generate cash flows from operating activities.  We believe discretionary pension plan contributions are more reflective of financing transactions to pay-down off-balance sheet debt relating to the pension liability.  In addition, we believe that free cash flow is a relevant indicator of our ability to repay maturing debt, both on and off-balance sheet, revise our dividend policy or fund other uses of capital that we believe will enhance stockholder value. Free cash flow is limited and does not represent remaining cash flows available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt maturities, pay-down of off-balance sheet pension debt, and other obligations or payments made for business acquisitions.
 
We define (i) adjusted operating income as operating income excluding the non-cash impact of the qualified pension plan and (ii) adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share as net income and earnings per share, respectively, excluding the after-tax non-cash impact of the qualified pension plan.  We believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income, adjusted net income, and adjusted earnings per share, which our management rely on to assess our operating results, is useful in order to better understand the operating performance of our core business, provide enhanced visibility into our selling, general and administrative expense structure and to facilitate the comparison of our results to the results of our peer companies.  Unlike our normal operating expenses, pension expense is determined using numerous complex assumptions about changes in pension assets and liabilities that are subject to factors that are beyond our control, such as market volatility. We believe it is useful to investors to understand the impact of the non-cash qualified pension expense on our results of operations, which provides more meaningful year-over-year comparisons.
 
We believe it is important to view each of these non-GAAP financial measures in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, the GAAP measures of cash flows from operating activities, operating income, net income, and earnings per share, respectively.
 
 
Item 9.01         Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
 
 
 
By:
/s/ Robert B. Cavanaugh
      Robert B. Cavanaugh
 
 
Date:  November 12, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                          
Exhibit Number
Description
 
99.1                                  J. C. Penney Company, Inc. News Release issued November 12, 2010

Ex 99.1
 
 
 
 
Third Quarter Highlights
 
 
-- J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE: JCP) reported net income of $44 million dollars or $0.19 per share for the quarter ended Oct. 30, 2010, compared to $0.11 per share in last years third quarter.  Comparable store sales were positive for the third consecutive quarter, increasing 1.9 percent over last year.  These results reflect the Companys focus on growing top-line sales in stores and online, while managing costs and expenses in order to drive profitability.
PLANO, Texas, Nov. 12, 2010
 
We planned for our new merchandising initiatives to begin to take hold in the second half, and its playing out this way.  In addition to the highly successful launch of the iconic Liz Claiborne brand, which is now exclusive to JCPenney, we have seen clear signs of strength in key businesses, and our Sephora inside JCPenney concept continues to surpass our expectations.  At the same time, our strengths in sourcing, and planning and allocation have allowed us to offer very sharp price points and to flow inventory into our stores in a way that reflects the ongoing trend of customers buying closer to need. Even including the impact of our strategic decision to wind down our catalog business, our improving sales combined with our focus on managing expenses allowed us to maintain strong profitability, said Myro n E. (Mike) Ullman, III, chairman and CEO.
 
In the quarter, the Company launched several exciting merchandise initiatives, including Liz Claiborne, MNG by Mango and Call it Spring by The ALDO Group  all exclusive to JCPenney.  The Company also opened 16 Sephora inside JCPenney beauty boutiques, and will end the year with 231 locations, bringing this highly successful offering to even more customers.
 
As we enter the fourth quarter and all-important holiday season, our gift assortment is better than ever, including many exciting styles under our new brands.  We expect the environment to remain highly promotional and we have planned a robust calendar of events to ensure
 
 
 
 
 
customers know that JCPenney should be their first-choice shopping destination. The combination of great style, compelling value, and our award-winning customer service is designed to make the holiday shopping season rewarding and exciting for our customers and their families.  Across our Company, there is a commitment to maintaining a culture of operational excellence and great enthusiasm about the progress we are making and the initiatives we are pursuing to drive growth now and over the longer term, Ullman added.
 
Sales
Comparable store sales for the quarter increased 1.9 percent over last year, the Companys third consecutive quarter of growth.  Internet sales through jcp.com were $361 million in the third quarter, increasing 3.0 percent over last year as the Companys online growth initiatives begin to take hold.  Overall, the strongest merchandise results were in shoes and mens apparel, and geographically, the best performances were in the southeast and southwest regions of the country.  Total sales increased 0.2 percent for the quarter.  As expected, total sales for the quarter were impacted by the Companys discontinuation of its Big Book catalogs this year.
 
Operating Performance
 
Operating income for the third quarter increased 15.9 percent to $124 million or 3.0 percent of sales compared to $107 million last year.  The non-cash qualified pension plan expense was $56 million in the third quarter compared to $73 million in the same period last year.    Excluding the impact of the pension plan expense from both this years and last years third quarter, adjusted operating income, as a percent of sales, was 4.3 percent, flat to last year.  A reconciliation of non-GAAP adjusted operating income is included with this release.
 
For the quarter, gross margin dollars decreased $61 million to 39.0 percent of sales.  In the same quarter last year, gross margins were 40.6 percent of sales, a near historic peak for the Company.  SG&A expenses were well managed decreasing $52 million or 3.8 percent when compared to last years third quarter, including the impact of a reduction in the Companys incentive compensation accrual.  Total operating expenses declined $78 million to 36.0 percent of sales in the third quarter, compared to 38.0 percent from the same period last year.
 
Financial Condition
 
The Company ended the third quarter with $1.7 billion in cash and cash equivalents on its balance sheet.  Interest expense for the quarter was $57 million compared to $64 million in last years third quarter.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
Managements guidance for the fourth quarter is as follows:
 
For the full year, the company continues to expect comparable store sales to increase low single digits and earnings to be in the range of $1.40 to $1.50 per share.
 
 
Conference Call/Webcast Details
 
Management will host a live conference call and real-time webcast today, Nov. 12, 2010, beginning at 9:30 a.m. ET.  Access to the conference call is open to the press and general public in a listen-only mode.  To access the conference call, please dial (877) 407-0778, or (201) 689-8565 for international callers, and reference the JCPenney Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.  The telephone playback will be available for seven days beginning approximately two hours after the conclusion of the call by dialing 877-660-6853, account code 286, conference ID number 350564.   The live webcast may be accessed via JCPenney's Investor Relations page at jcpenney.net, on streetevents.com (for members) or on investorcalendar.com.  Replays of the webcast will be available for up to 90 days after the ev ent.
 
 
For further information:
 
Investor Relations
Kristin Hays (972) 431-5500
jcpinvestorrelations@jcpenney.com
 
Media Relations
Darcie Brossart; (972) 431-3400
jcpcorpcomm@jcpenney.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Website
www.jcpenney.net
 
 
About JCPenney
 
JCPenney, one of America's leading retailers, operates over 1,100 department stores throughout the United States and Puerto Rico, as well as one of the largest apparel and home furnishing sites on the Internet, jcp.com. Serving more than half of Americas families each year, JCPenney offers a wide array of private, exclusive and national brands which reflect the Companys vision to be Americas shopping destination for discovering great styles at compelling prices. Traded as JCP on the New York Stock Exchange, the $17.6 billion retailer is transforming its organization to support its Long Range Plan strategies to build a sustainable, profitable enterprise that serves its customers, engages its associates and rewards its shareholders.  For more information visit .
www.jcpenney.net
 
 
This release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements, which reflect the Company's current views of future events and financial performance, involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause the Company's actual results to be materially different from planned or expected results. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions, including inflation, recession, unemployment levels, consumer spending patterns, credit availability and debt levels, changes in store traffic trends, the cost of goods, trade restrictions, changes in tariff, freight, paper and postal rates, changes in the cost of fuel and other energy and transportation costs, increases in wage and benefit costs, competition a nd retail industry consolidations, interest rate fluctuations, dollar and other currency valuations, risks associated with war, an act of terrorism or pandemic, and a systems failure and/or security breach that results in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer, employee or Company information.  Please refer to the Company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties. Investors should take such risks into account when making investment decisions. We do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements as of any future date.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


