FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20100514091837.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 431-1000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (the Company) issued an earnings press release on May 14, 2010, announcing its first quarter 2010 results of operations and financial condition. This information is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The press release and accompanying schedules provide certain information regarding free cash flow, adjusted operating income, adjusted net income, and adjusted earnings per share, all of which may be considered non-GAAP financial measures under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. A reconciliation of each such non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is included with the release.
We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures and dividends paid, plus proceeds from the sale of assets. We believe that free cash flow is a relevant indicator of our ability to repay maturing debt, revise our dividend policy or fund other uses of capital that we believe will enhance stockholder value. Free cash flow is limited and does not represent remaining cash flows available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt maturities and other obligations or payments made for business acquisitions.
We define (i) adjusted operating income as operating income excluding the non-cash impact of the qualified pension plan and (ii) adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share as net income and earnings per share, respectively, excluding the after-tax non-cash impact of the qualified pension plan.  We believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income, adjusted net income, and adjusted earnings per share, which our management use to assess our operating results, is useful in order to better understand the operating performance of our core business, provide enhanced visibility into our selling, general and administrative expense structure and to facilitate the comparison of our results to the results of our peer companies.  Unlike our primary operating expe nses, pension expense is determined using numerous complex assumptions about changes in pension assets and liabilities that are subject to factors that are beyond our control, such as market volatility. We believe it is useful to investors to understand the impact of the non-cash qualified pension expense on our results of operations, which provides more meaningful year-over-year comparisons.
We believe it is important to view each of these non-GAAP financial measures in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, the GAAP measures of cash flows from operating activities, operating income, net income, and earnings per share, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
                                                  
      
 
 
Date:  May 14, 2010
 
 
 
 
                          
Exhibit Number
Description
99.1                                  J. C. Penney Company, Inc. News Release issued May 14, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
First Quarter Highlights
-- J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE: JCP) reported fiscal first quarter results that were better than initial expectations and showed further improvement in operating income margin.  Earnings per share for the quarter ended May 1, 2010, were $0.25 compared to $0.11 per share in last years first quarter.  Net income for this years first quarter increased 140 percent to $60 million versus $25 million last year.
PLANO, Texas, May 14, 2010
The first quarter marked a solid start to the year for JCPenney as customers responded well to the steps we have taken to reinforce our style authority with fashion sensibility, head-to-toe looks and promotions that made what we had to offer highly affordable for Americas families.  At the same time, the disciplined approach to managing our business allowed us to deliver strong gross margins, even as we work to increase our top line, said Myron E. (Mike) Ullman, III, chairman and chief executive officer of JCPenney.
We know that our customers remain concerned about their budgets, however they respond well to merchandise thats new and trend-right at compelling prices.  Our assortments are strong for the upcoming key appointment shopping periods, including Back-to-School.  We will also launch Liz Claiborne in almost 30 merchandise categories and MNG by Mango -- both exclusive to JCPenney -- for the fall.  Taken together, the balance of 2010 will be an exciting time for JCPenney as we focus on expanding our market share and delivering long-term growth.
 
 
 
 
Operating Performance
Total sales in the first quarter increased 1.2 percent compared to last year, while comparable store sales increased 1.3 percent.  Six of the seven merchandise divisions had sales gains compared with last years first quarter, with the strongest merchandise results in mens, shoes and handbags, and childrens.  Geographically, the best performance was in the southeast region of the country.  Internet sales through increased approximately 1 percent versus last year.
www.jcp.com
For the quarter, gross margin increased 90 basis points to 41.4 percent of sales.  SG&A expenses for the quarter increased by $34 million versus last year, primarily due to new store openings and minimum wage increases that have occurred since the first quarter of 2009.  Total qualified pension plan expense was $55 million compared to $81 million in last years first quarter.  As a percent of sales, total operating expenses were 37.5 percent in the first quarter, an improvement of 30 basis points compared with last years first quarter.
Operating income for the first quarter improved 46.2 percent to $155 million or 3.9 percent of sales.  Excluding the impact of the non-cash qualified pension plan expense from both the current and last years first quarter, operating income increased 12.3 percent to $210 million, or 5.3 percent of sales, and adjusted earnings per share were $0.40 versus $0.34 last year.  Reconciliations of non-GAAP adjusted operating income and adjusted earnings per share excluding qualified pension expense are included in this release.
Interest expense for the quarter was $59 million, and the effective tax rate was 37.5 percent.
Cash Flow and Financial Condition
The Company continues to maintain a strong financial position, with the flexibility to support long-term growth initiatives and invest in inventory to drive higher sales growth.  As of the end of the first quarter, the Company had cash and short-term investments of $2.4 billion, an increase of $240 million over the same period last year, and long-term debt of $3 billion.  In March 2010 the Company retired $393 million of maturing long-term debt from existing cash balances.
Capital expenditures for the first quarter were $116 million, in line with expectations.  Merchandise inventories ended the first quarter at $3.2 billion, or slightly below last years first quarter.
 
 
 
 
Store Renovations and Closings
During the first quarter, JCPenney opened two new stores and separately closed one store bringing the total number of stores to 1,109.  The Company also added the highly successful Sephora inside JCPenney concept to 37 existing stores and one new store location bringing the total number of SiJCP locations to 193.
2010 Second Quarter and Full Year Guidance
Managements 2010 second quarter guidance is as follows:
.
Managements updated full-year 2010 guidance is as follows:
Conference Call/Webcast Details
Management will host a live conference call and real-time webcast today, May 14, 2010, beginning at 9:30 a.m. ET.  Access to the conference call is open to the press and general public in a listen only mode.  To access the conference call, please dial (877) 407-0778 or (201) 689-8565 and reference the JCPenney Quarterly Earnings Conference Call.  The telephone
 
 
 
 
 
 
playback will be available for seven days beginning approximately two hours after the conclusion of the call by dialing (877) 660-6853, account code 286, and conference ID number 328511.  The live webcast may be accessed via JCPenneys Investor Relations page at , or on and (for members).  Replays of the webcast will be available for up to 90 days after the event.
www.jcpenney.net
www.InvestorCalendar.com
www.streetevents.com
 
 
For further information:
Investor Relations
Phil Sanchez; (972) 431-5575;
psanc3@jcpenney.com
Teneka Ray;  (972)  431-5026;
tray4@jcpenney.com
Media Relations
Darcie Brossart or Kristin Hays; (972) 431-3400
jcpcorpcomm@jcpenney.com
 
Corporate Website
www.jcpenney.net
About JCPenney
JCPenney is one of America's leading retailers, operating 1,109 department stores throughout the United States and Puerto Rico, as well as one of the largest apparel and home furnishing sites on the Internet, jcp.com, and the nation's largest general merchandise catalog business. Through these integrated channels, JCPenney offers a wide array of national, private and exclusive brands which reflect the Company's commitment to providing customers with style and quality at a smart price. Traded as "JCP" on the New York Stock Exchange, the Company posted revenue of $17.6 billion in 2009 and is executing its strategic plan to be the growth leader in the retail industry. Key to this strategy is JCPenney's "Every Day Matters" brand positioning, intended to generate deeper, more emotionally driven relationships with customers by fully engagi ng the Company's approximately 150,000 Associates to offer encouragement, provide ideas and inspire customers every time they shop with JCPenney.
This release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements, which reflect the Company's current views of future events and financial performance, involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause the Company's actual results to be materially different from planned or expected results. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions, including inflation, recession, unemployment levels, consumer spending patterns, credit availability and debt levels, changes in store traffic trends, the cost of goods, trade restrictions, changes in tariff, freight, paper and postal rates, changes in the cost of fuel and other energy and transportation costs, increases in wage and benefit costs, c ompetition and retail industry consolidations, interest rate fluctuations, dollar and other currency valuations, risks associated with war, an act of terrorism or pandemic, and a systems failure and/or security breach that results in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer, employee or Company information.  Please refer to the Company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties. Investors should take such risks into account when making investment decisions. We do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements as of any future date.
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
3


