FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20100219092021.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 431-1000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (the Company) issued an earnings press release on February 19, 2010, announcing its fourth quarter 2009 results of operations and financial condition. This information is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The press release provides certain information regarding free cash flow, adjusted operating income, adjusted income from continuing operations and adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations, all of which may be considered non-GAAP financial measures under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The press release includes a reconciliation of each such non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.
We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations less capital expenditures and dividends paid, plus proceeds from sale of assets. We believe that free cash flow is a relevant indicator of our ability to repay maturing debt, revise our dividend policy or fund other uses of capital that we believe will enhance stockholder value. Free cash flow is limited and does not represent remaining cash flows available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt maturities and other obligations or payments made for business acquisitions.
 
We define (i) adjusted operating income as operating income excluding the non-cash impact of the qualified pension plan and (ii) adjusted income from continuing operations and adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations as income from continuing operations and earnings per share from continuing operations, respectively, excluding the after-tax non-cash impact of the qualified pension plan.  We believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income, adjusted income from continuing operations, and adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations, which our management use to assess our operating results, is useful in order to better understand the operating performance of our core business, provide enhanced visibility into our selling, general and administrative expense structure and to facilitate the comparison of our results to the results of our peer companies.  Unlike our primary operating expenses, pension expense is determined using numerous complex assumptions about changes in pension assets and liabilities that are subject to factors that are beyond our control, such as market volatility. We believe it is useful to investors to understand the impact of the non-cash qualified pension expense on our results of operations, which provides more meaningful year-over-year comparisons.
We believe it is important to view each of these non-GAAP financial measures in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, the GAAP measures of cash flows from operating activities, operating income, income from continuing operations, and earnings per share from continuing operations, respectively.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
 Exhibit 99.1
   
 J. C. Penney Company, Inc. News Release issued February 19, 2010
   
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
                                                           
      
Date:  February 19, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
                           
Exhibit Number
Description
99.1                                 J. C. Penney Company, Inc. News Release issued February 19, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter and 2009 Highlights
-- J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE: JCP) today reported fiscal fourth quarter earnings and cash flow performance that were significantly better than expected.  Earnings per share from continuing operations for the fourth quarter ended Jan. 30, 2010, were $0.84 compared with the most recent guidance for earnings per share to be in the range of $0.77 to $0.82.  For the full year, earnings from continuing operations were $1.07 per share.
PLANO, Texas, Feb. 19, 2010
Adjusted operating income for the fourth quarter, which excludes the impact of the non-cash qualified pension plan expense, was $454 million and increased 27.9 percent compared with $355 million in last years fourth quarter.  Fourth quarter adjusted income from continuing operations, excluding qualified pension expense, was $1.02 per share, an increase of 21.4 percent versus $0.84 per share in last years fourth quarter.  Reconciliations of non-GAAP adjusted operating income and income from continuing operations to the nearest GAAP measure are included in this release.
Net income for this years fourth quarter and full year, including the impact of discontinued operations, was $0.84 and $1.08 per share, respectively.  Free cash flow for 2009 was $806 million, an increase of $785 million compared to 2008.  A reconciliation of non-GAAP free cash flow to the comparable GAAP measure is included in this release.
 
 
 
 
JCPenney far exceeded its expectations and objectives for the year.  By stepping up the style of the merchandise we offer customers and enhancing service in our stores, we were able to drive cash generation and profitability, in spite of the difficult economic climate, said Myron E. (Mike) Ullman, III, chairman and chief executive officer. Our disciplined approach to inventory planning, promotions and SG&A served us well, particularly in the fourth quarter with a planned lower sales volume.  As a result, we were able to achieve new peak gross margin levels for the year, which led to better-than-expected profitability and cash flow generation.
With this strong foundation in place, our focus for fiscal 2010 is driving top-line growth.  We intend to deliver positive comparable store sales and market share growth as we leverage our position as a destination for affordable style and create a sense of discovery and excitement for our customers.
Fourth Quarter Operating Performance
Total sales in the fourth quarter decreased 3.6 percent compared to last year, while comparable store sales decreased 4.5 percent.  The strongest merchandise results were in womens apparel and shoes, and geographically, the best performance was in the central region of the country.  The weakest results were in the home division and the northwest region.
For the quarter, gross margin increased 360 basis points over last year to 38.2 percent of sales.  SG&A expenses increased $21 million or 1.4 percent versus last year.  As a percent of sales, SG&A expenses increased 140 basis points to 27.2 percent of sales with the rate impacted by lower sales volume.  Total operating expenses were 31.3 percent of sales in the fourth quarter.
This years fourth quarter includes a non-cash qualified pension plan expense of $71 million, or $0.18 per share after-tax compared with a credit of $34 million or $0.10 per share after-tax in last years fourth quarter.  As a percent of sales, fourth quarter adjusted operating income was 8.2 percent compared to 6.2 percent last year.
Full Year Operating Performance
For full year 2009, total sales decreased 5 percent compared to last year, while comparable store sales decreased 6.3 percent.  The gross margin rate exceeded the Companys previous historic peak and reached 39.4 percent.  SG&A dollars decreased $13 million or 0.2 percent compared with last year.
 
 
 
 
Adjusted operating income excluding qualified pension plan expense decreased only $41 million or 4.1 percent.  As a percent of sales, adjusted operating income increased to 5.5 percent versus 5.4 percent last year.  Adjusted income from continuing operations was $1.86 per share compared with $2.17 per share last year.
Financial Condition
The Companys financial position improved significantly during 2009, and the cash and cash equivalents balance as of fiscal year-end 2009 was $3.0 billion, an increase of $659 million over last year largely due to the $806 million of free cash flow during the year.  Free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure, is defined as net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations less capital expenditures and dividends paid, plus proceeds from sales of assets.
2010 Full Year Guidance
Managements 2010 guidance is as follows:
 
2010 First Quarter Guidance
Managements guidance for the first quarter of 2010 is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
New Long Range Plan to be Announced at April Analyst Meeting
With its strong financial performance in 2009, JCPenney has successfully achieved the objectives of its Bridge Plan.  Accordingly, the Company plans to announce new Long Range Plan initiatives and financial performance goals for the five-year period ending in 2014 at its Analyst Meeting in New York City on Apr. 20, 2010.
 
Conference Call/Webcast Details
Management will host a live conference call and real-time webcast today, Feb. 19, 2010, beginning at 9:30 a.m. ET.  Access to the conference call is open to the press and general public in a listen only mode.  To access the conference call, please dial (877) 407-0778 and reference the JCPenney Quarterly Earnings Conference Call.  The telephone playback will be available for seven days beginning approximately two hours after the conclusion of the call by dialing (877) 660-6853, account code 286, and conference ID number 328510.  The live webcast may be accessed via JCPenneys Investor Relations page at , or on and (for members).  Replays of the webcast will be available for up to 90 days after the event.
www.jcpenney.net
www.InvestorCalendar.com
www.streetevents.com
 
For further information:
Investor Relations
Phil Sanchez; (972) 431-5575;
psanc3@jcpenney.com
Teneka Ray; (972) 431-5026;
tray4@jcpenney.com
 
Media Relations
Darcie Brossart or Kristin Hays; (972) 431-3400
jcpcorpcomm@jcpenney.com
 
Corporate Website
www.jcpenney.net
 
 
 
 
About JCPenney
JCPenney is one of America's leading retailers, operating 1,108 department stores throughout the United States and Puerto Rico, as well as one of the largest apparel and home furnishing sites on the Internet, jcp.com, and the nation's largest general merchandise catalog business. Through these integrated channels, JCPenney offers a wide array of national, private and exclusive brands which reflect the Company's commitment to providing customers with style and quality at a smart price. Traded as "JCP" on the New York Stock Exchange, the Company posted revenue of $17.6 billion in 2009 and is executing its strategic plan to be the growth leader in the retail industry. Key to this strategy is JCPenney's "Every Day Matters" brand positioning, intended to generate deeper, more emotionally driven relationships with customers by fully engaging the Company's approximately 150,000 Associates to offer encouragement, provide ideas and inspire customers every time they shop with JCPenney.
This release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements, which reflect the Company's current views of future events and financial performance, involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause the Company's actual results to be materially different from planned or expected results. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions, including inflation, recession, unemployment levels, consumer spending patterns, credit availability and debt levels, changes in store traffic trends, the cost of goods, trade restrictions, changes in tariff, freight, paper and postal rates, changes in the cost of fuel and other energy and transportation costs, increases in wage and benefit costs, competition and retail industry consolidations, interest rate fluctuations, dollar and other currency valuations, risks associated with war, an act of terrorism or pandemic, and a systems failure and/or security breach that results in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer, employee or Company information.  Please refer to the Company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties. Investors should take such risks into account when making investment decisions. We do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements as of any future date.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
3


