FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20110825161512.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 431-1000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02                 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
           On August 22, 2011, J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (the Company) and Myron E. Ullman, III, Chairman and CEO of the Company, entered into a Transition Services Agreement (the Agreement) pursuant to which Mr. Ullman agrees to provide services to the Company in connection with the transition of his responsibilities as CEO to Ronald B. Johnson.  In addition, Mr. Ullman agrees to be subject to certain restrictive covenants for an 18-month period following his retirement from the Company, including with respect to confidentiality, nonsolicitation of employees, noninterference with business relations and noncompetition.  In exchange for these agreements, Mr. Ullman will receive transition services compensation in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Agreement.  The transition services compensation includes a time-based restricted stock unit award valued at $5,000,000, a lump sum cash payment of $10,100,000, a cash payment equal to the fair value of his unvested stock options that would otherwise be forfeited as of his retirement date and accelerated vesting of his unvested restricted stock units that would otherwise be forfeited as of his retirement date.  Under the Agreement, Mr. Ullman will also continue to receive his current base salary through his retirement date and will receive his incentive compensation for the 2011 fiscal year, payable at the target amount of $1,875,000, upon his retirement from the Company.  Mr. Ullman will continue to be entitled to his accrued benefits under the Companys employee benefit plans and policies in which he participates.
(e)
 
A copy of the Agreement is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1.  The foregoing description of the Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01                 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
By:                                            
/s/ Janet Dhillon
      Janet Dhillon
Executive Vice President,
General Counsel and Secretary
 
 
Date:  August 25, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
                       
Exhibit Number
Description

Exhibit 10.1
This transition services agreement (this "Agreement") between J. C. Penney Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation, including its subsidiaries and affiliates (jcpenney), and Myron E. Ullman III (You, or Your) will set forth our mutual understanding as to the rights and obligations of You and jcpenney in connection with Your retirement from jcpenney, effective as of January 27, 2012, or an earlier date determined by the Board of Directors of the Company (the Board).
 
, You currently serve as Chairman of the Board (Chairman) and Chief Executive Officer of jcpenney (CEO);
WHEREAS
, You will continue to serve as CEO with full responsibility and accountability for the operations of jcpenney until November 1, 2011, or an earlier date determined by the Board, when, on such date, Mr. Ronald B. Johnson shall become CEO with full responsibility and accountability for the operations of jcpenney;
WHEREAS
, on and subsequent to the date that CEO responsibilities are transferred to Mr. Johnson, Your duties and responsibilities as CEO shall cease and no executive of jcpenney shall report to You, other than at Mr. Johnsons request;
WHEREAS
, subsequent to the date that CEO responsibilities are transferred to Mr. Johnson, You shall continue as an employee of jcpenney and Chairman with the title Executive Chairman until Your Retirement Date;
WHEREAS
, during the period beginning on the date Mr. Johnson assumes responsibilities as CEO and ending on Your Retirement Date (the Transition Period), You shall provide Your full Cooperation in connection with the transition of CEO duties and responsibilities to Mr. Johnson;
WHEREAS
, effective as of Your Retirement Date You will cease to serve as Executive Chairman, at which time Your employment with jcpenney and its affiliates will cease; and
WHEREAS
, in connection with Your (i) commitment, and significant contribution and participation in securing Mr. Johnson as the incoming CEO; (ii) full Cooperation with the transition of CEO duties and responsibilities to Mr. Johnson during the Transition Period; and (iii) agreement to abide by the Covenants and Representations contained in Section 4 of this Agreement, jcpenney has agreed to provide, in addition to Your Annual Base Salary and Incentive Compensation under the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Management Incentive Compensation Program (the Program) described in Section 2 of this Agreement, the Transition Services Compensation described in Section 3 of this Agreement.
WHEREAS
 
1
 
 
 
 
, in consideration of the mutual agreements contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
1.           
Definitions
 
As used herein, the following terms shall have the following respective meanings unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
 
Annual Base Salary shall mean Your annual base salary for the 2011 fiscal year, which is equal to $1.5 million ($62,500 paid semi-monthly).
Beneficiary shall mean Your surviving spouse or if You have no surviving spouse Your estate.
Cause shall mean:
provided, however, that termination for Cause based on clause (d) shall not be effective unless You shall have written notice from the Board (which notice shall include a description of the reasons and circumstances giving rise to such notice) not less than 30 days prior to Your termination and You fail after receipt of such notice to satisfactorily discharge Your duties.  For purposes hereof, an act, or a failure to act, shall not be deemed willful or intentional unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by You in bad faith or without a reasonable belief that Your actions or omissions were in the best interest of jcpenney.  Failure to meet performance standards or objectives, by itself, does not
 
2
 
 
 
 
constitute Cause.  Cause also includes any of the above grounds for dismissal regardless of whether jcpenney learns of it before or after terminating Your employment.
Code shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Cooperation shall mean Your assistance and support in transitioning the CEO  responsibilities to Mr. Johnson. For purposes of this Agreement, Cooperation shall include, but not be limited to, Your:
Equity Plan shall mean the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan.
Incentive Compensation shall mean Your target incentive compensation payable under the Program for the 2011 fiscal year, which is equal to $1.875 million.
LTIP shall mean the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Retirement Date shall mean the date of Your termination of employment with jcpenney within the meaning of section 409A of the Code and applicable Treasury regulations thereunder and which, for purposes of this Agreement, shall be January 27, 2012, or an earlier date determined by the Board. For purposes of this definition, jcpenny shall include all corporations, trades, and businesses, the employees of which, together with employees of J. C. Penney Company, Inc., are required by the first sentence of subsection (b), by subsection (c), by subsection (m), or by subsection (o) of Code section 414 to be treated as if they were employed by a single employer.  For purposes of determining whether a termination of employment has occurred, the controlled group will be determined under Code sections 414(b) and 414(c) and Treasury Regulation section 1.414(c)-2 by using the language at least 50 percent instead of at least 80 percent each place it appears in section 1563(a)(1), (2), and (3) of the Code.
2.           
Regular Compensation and Benefits
2.1
   
.  Your Annual Base Salary will continue to be paid pursuant to jcpenneys standard payroll practices until Your Retirement Date. On Your Retirement Date jcpenney shall pay to You, in a lump sum, any portion of Your Annual Base Salary that is earned and unpaid as of that date and, if Your Retirement Date is determined by the
Annual Base Salary
 
3
 
 
 
 
Board to be a date before January 27, 2012, any Annual Base Salary that You would have earned had You remained employed by jcpenney through January 27, 2012.
2.2           .  If You remain employed until Your Retirement Date, jcpenney shall pay Your Incentive Compensation to You, in a lump sum, on January 27, 2012. In the event of Your death prior to January 27, 2012, Your Incentive Compensation shall be paid in a lump sum to Your Beneficiary on January 27, 2012.  You shall forfeit Your Incentive Compensation if You voluntarily terminate employment for any reason prior to January 27, 2012, or You are terminated for Cause prior to January 27, 2012, or resign in lieu thereof.
Incentive Compensation
2.3           .
Other Compensation and Benefits
3.           You are entitled to the transition services compensation provided for in this Section 3 (the Transition Services Compensation).  It is intended and understood that the services You perform during the Transition Period shall be more than 20 percent of the average level of services performed by you over the immediately preceding 36 months while You were employed as Chairman and CEO. Payment of the Transition Services Compensation provided for in this Section 3 is contingent, along with Your agreement to abide by the Covenants and Representations contained in Section 4, on Your full Cooperation with the transition of CEO duties and responsibilities to Mr. Johnson during the Transition Period. If, in the judgment of the Board, You do not provide Your full Cooperation in connection with transition of CEO duties and responsibilities to Mr. Johnson and on written notice from the Board (which notice shall include a description of the reasons and circumstances giving rise to such notice) You do not within 30 days remedy, in a method and to the extent satisfactory to the Board, the situation identified by the Board in its written notice, the portion of the
Transition Services Compensation
.  
 
4
 
 
 
 
Transition Services Compensation that relates to Your full Cooperation with the transition of CEO duties and responsibilities to Mr. Johnson during the Transition Period shall be forfeited.
3.1           .  You shall be granted a special time-based restricted stock unit (TBRSU) award under the LTIP with a value equal to $5 million on the date of grant.  The award shall be made in November 2011 pursuant to the Policy Statement on Equity Award Grant Practice. If You remain employed by jcpenney until Your Retirement Date the grant will fully vest on the date immediately prior to Your Retirement Date, and will be distributable in shares of common stock, par value $.50 per share, of the Company (Common Stock) to You on Your Retirement Date.  If You die prior to Your Retirement Date the TBRSU award shall fully vest on the date of Your death and shall be distributable in shares of Common Stock to Your Beneficiary on January 27, 2012.  You shall forfeit the TBRSU award if You voluntarily terminate employment for any reason prior to January 27, 2012, or You are terminated for Cause prior to January 27, 2012, or resign in lieu thereof.
Time-Based Restricted Stock Unit Award
3.2           .  You shall be entitled to receive a special one time, lump sum payment totaling $10.1 million, subject to any applicable withholding. If You remain employed by jcpenney until Your Retirement Date, such payment shall be made to You in a lump sum in cash on January 27, 2012. If You die prior to Your Retirement Date, the lump sum shall  be paid to Your Beneficiary on January 27, 2012.  The lump sum payment shall be forfeited if You voluntarily terminate employment for any reason prior to January 27, 2012, or You are terminated for Cause prior to January 27, 2012, or resign in lieu thereof.
Lump Sum Cash Payment
3.3           .  If You remain employed by jcpenney until Your Retirement Date all outstanding TBRSU awards granted under the Equity Plan and the LTIP that are unvested and would, by the terms of the applicable TBRSU grant notice, be forfeited as of Your Retirement Date shall fully vest on January 27, 2012 and be distributable to You in shares of Common Stock as provided in the terms of the applicable TBRSU grant notice.
Acceleration of Vesting of Unvested TBRSU Awards
3.4           If You remain employed by jcpenney until Your Retirement Date:
Acceleration of Vesting of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Awards.  
 
5
 
 
 
 
Retirement Date shall fully vest on January 27, 2012, at the target amount and be distributable to You in shares of Common Stock as provided in the terms of the applicable PBRSU grant notice.
 
3.5            If You remain employed by jcpenney until Your Retirement Date You shall receive a lump sum payment as soon as practicable after January 27, 2012 but no later than February 3, 2012, equal to the fair market value of all outstanding stock options granted under the Equity Plan and the LTIP that are unvested and would, by the terms of the applicable stock option grant notice, be forfeited as of Your Retirement Date.  The fair market value of each stock option subject to forfeiture shall be determined using the Black-Scholes method of valuation based on the closing price of the Common Stock on Your Retirement Date.
Cash in Lieu of Stock Options.
4.           .  You hereby acknowledge that Your duties with jcpenney involved and continue to involve access to and creation of jcpenneys confidential or proprietary information and trade secrets (collectively, the Proprietary Information).  The Proprietary Information has been and will continue to be developed by jcpenney at substantial cost and constitutes valuable and unique property of jcpenney.  You further acknowledge that due to the nature of Your position, You had and continue to have access to Proprietary Information affecting plans and operations in every location in which jcpenney does business or plans to do business throughout the world, and Your decisions and recommendations on behalf of jcpenney affect its operations throughout the world.  Accordingly, You acknowledge that the foregoing makes it reasonably necessary for jcpenney to protect its business interests.  In that regard and to that end, You and jcpenney have agreed that a portion of the Transition Services Compensation is to compensate You for Your agreement to the following covenants.
Covenants and Representations
4.1             You covenant and agree that You will not, without the prior written consent of jcpenney, during the Transition Period, or at any time after Your Retirement Date disclose to any person not employed by jcpenney, or use in connection with engaging in competition with jcpenney, any Proprietary Information of jcpenney. For this purpose Proprietary Information includes all nonpublic information relating to jcpenneys business, including but not limited to information, plans and strategies regarding suppliers, pricing, marketing, customers, hirings and terminations, employee performance and evaluations, internal reviews and investigations, short term and long range plans, acquisitions and divestitures, advertising, information systems, sales objectives and performance, as well as any other nonpublic information, the nondisclosure of which may provide a competitive or economic advantage to jcpenney. Proprietary Information shall not be deemed to have become public where it has been disclosed or made public by or through anyone acting in violation of a contractual, ethical, or legal responsibility to maintain its confidentiality.
Confidentiality
.
 
4.2           .  You covenant and agree that during the Transition Period and for a period of 18 months following Your Retirement Date, that You will not, without the prior written consent of jcpenney, on Your own behalf or on behalf of any person, firm or company, directly or indirectly, attempt to influence, persuade or induce, or assist any other person in so persuading or inducing, any of the employees of jcpenney (or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates) to give up his or her employment with jcpenney (or any
Nonsolicitation of Employees
 
6
 
 
 
 
of its subsidiaries or affiliates), and that You will not directly or indirectly solicit or hire employees of jcpenney (or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates) for employment with any other employer.
 
4.3           .  You covenant and agree that during the Transition Period and for a period of 18 months following Your Retirement Date, that You will not, without the prior written consent of jcpenney, on Your own behalf or on behalf of any person, firm or company, directly or indirectly, attempt to influence, persuade or induce, or assist any other person in so persuading or inducing, any person, firm or company to cease doing business with, reduce its business with, or decline to commence a business relationship with, jcpenney (or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates).
Noninterference with Business Relations
 
4.4           .  You covenant that during the Transition Period and for a period of 18 months following Your Retirement Date, that You will not undertake work for a Competing Business.  For purposes of this covenant, undertake work for shall include performing services, whether paid or unpaid, in any capacity, including as an officer, director, owner, consultant, employee, agent or representative, where such services involve the performance of similar duties or oversight responsibilities as those performed by You at any time during the 12-month period preceding Your Retirement Date.  The term Competing Business shall mean any business that, at the time of the determination:
Noncompetition
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the forgoing, subject to the express written consent of jcpenney, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, You may serve on the board of directors of a Competing Business.  This covenant will not apply solely with respect to Your services as a member of the board of directors for any business in which You were active as a director as of November 1, 2011.
 
4.5           .  If You breach any of the covenants contained in this Section 4, jcpenney shall have no further obligation to pay You that portion of the Transition Services Compensation intended to compensate You for the covenants contained in this Section 4, or if such amount has already been paid to You jcpenney shall have the right to seek repayment of a prorated portion of Transition Services Compensation intended to compensate You for the covenants contained in this Section 4.  Such prorated portion shall be determined by multiplying the portion of the Transition Services Compensation intended to compensate You for the covenants contained in this Section 4 by a fraction the numerator of which is the total number of days remaining in the 18-month covenant
Injunctive Relief
 
7
 
 
 
 
period, and the denominator of which is the total number of days in such covenant period.  You acknowledge that any such breach is likely to result in immediate and irreparable harm to jcpenney for which money damages are likely to be inadequate.  Accordingly, You consent to injunctive and other appropriate equitable relief without the necessity of bond in excess of $500.00 upon the institution of proceedings therefor by jcpenney in order to protect jcpenneys rights hereunder.
 
5.           
General Provisions.
 
5.1           .  As provided herein, the Incentive Compensation Payment described in Section 2.2 shall be in lieu of any incentive compensation payment you might otherwise be entitled to under the Program. The Transition Services Compensation described in Sections 3.3, 3.4, and 3.5 shall be in lieu of any corresponding rights and benefits You may have with respect to any such awards contemplated by those sections under the Equity Plan and the LTIP.  In addition, you agree to waive all rights you may have to any payments under the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Change in Control Plan as amended and restated March 28, 2008. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed or deemed to supersede or amend any of Your rights to indemnification and defence under any agreement, policy, bylaw or other document providing for the indemnification of jcpenneys officers and directors.
Supersedes Other Agreements
 
5.2           .  The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement.  If any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable in part, the remaining portion of such provision, together with all other provisions of this Agreement, shall remain valid and enforceable and continue in full force and effect to the fullest extent consistent with law.
Severability
 
5.3             All disputes arising under, related to, or in connection with this Agreement shall be settled by expedited arbitration conducted before a panel of three arbitrators sitting in Plano, Collin County,  Texas, in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association then in effect.  The decision of the arbitrators in that proceeding shall be binding on jcpenney and You.  Judgment may be entered on the award of the arbitrators in any court having jurisdiction.  The arbitrators, in their discretion, may award the costs of such arbitration, including reasonable legal and professional fees, to a prevailing party in such arbitration.
Dispute Resolution.
 
5.4             This Agreement is personal to You and, without the prior written consent of jcpenney, shall not be assignable by You otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by Your legal representatives.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon jcpenney and its successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns.
 
5.5             This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Texas, without reference to principles of conflict of laws.
Governing Law.
 
8
 
 
 
 
5.6           .  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, jcpenney may withhold from amounts payable under this Agreement all federal, state, local and foreign taxes that are required to be withheld by applicable laws or regulations.
Withholding
 
5.7           .  For all purposes of this Agreement, all communications required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when hand delivered or dispatched by electronic facsimile transmission (with receipt thereof confirmed), or five business days after having been mailed by United States registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or three business days after having been sent by a nationally recognized overnight courier service, addressed to jcpenney at its principal executive office, c/o jcpenneys General Counsel, and to You at Your principal residence, or to such other address as any party may have furnished to the other in writing and in accordance herewith, except that notices of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.
Notices
 
5.8           .  The terms of this Agreement are intended by the parties to be the final expression of their agreement with respect to Your employment by jcpenney and may not be contradicted by evidence of any prior or contemporaneous agreement.  The parties further intend that this Agreement shall constitute the complete and exclusive statement of its terms and that no extrinsic evidence whatsoever may be introduced in any judicial, administrative, or other legal proceedings to vary the terms of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
 
5.9           .  This Agreement may not be modified, amended, or terminated except by an instrument in writing, approved by jcpenney and signed by You and jcpenney. Failure on the part of either party to complain of any action or omission, breach or default on the part of the other party, no matter how long the same may continue, shall never be deemed to be a waiver of any rights or remedies hereunder, at law or in equity.  You or jcpenney may waive compliance by the other party with any provision of this Agreement that such other party was or is obligated to comply with or perform only through an executed writing; provided, however, that such waiver shall not operate as a waiver of, or estoppel with respect to, any other or subsequent failure.
Amendments; Waivers
 
5.10          .  The parties hereto shall not voluntarily undertake or fail to undertake any action or course of action that is inconsistent with the provisions or essential intent of this Agreement.  Furthermore, it is the intent of the parties hereto to act in a fair and reasonable manner with respect to the interpretation and application of the provisions of this Agreement.
No Inconsistent Actions
 
5.11          .  The headings used in this Agreement are intended for convenience or reference only and shall not in any manner amplify, limit, modify or otherwise be used in the construction or interpretation of any provision of this Agreement.  All section references are to sections of this Agreement, unless otherwise noted.
Headings and Section References
 
To indicate Your understanding and acceptance of the terms set forth in this Agreement, please sign and date this Agreement in the space provided below.
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10
                                                            
 
 
 
 
Sincerely,
J.C. Penney Company, Inc.
By                                                                        
:        
/s/ Burl Osborne
     
August 22, 2011
Burl Osborne                                                                                     Date
Chairman Human Resources
And Compensation Committee of the
Board of Directors
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Addressee
                                                 
/s/ Myron E. Ullman III  
           August 22, 2011
   
   
Myron E. Ullman III                                                                            Date
 
 
 
11


