FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20111114093330.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 431-1000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (the Company) issued an earnings press release on November 14, 2011 announcing its third quarter 2011 results of operations and financial condition. This information is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The schedules to the press release provide certain information regarding (i) adjusted operating income excluding restructuring and management transition charges, (ii) adjusted operating income, (iii) adjusted net income excluding restructuring and management transition charges, (iv) adjusted net income, (v) adjusted earnings per share excluding restructuring and management transition charges, (vi) adjusted earnings per share and (vii) free cash flow, all of which may be considered non-GAAP financial measures under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. A reconciliation of each such non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is included with the release.
We define (i) adjusted operating income excluding restructuring and management transition charges as operating (loss)/income excluding the impact of restructuring and management transition charges, (ii) adjusted operating income as operating (loss)/income excluding the impact of restructuring and management transition charges and the non-cash impact of the qualified pension plan, (iii) adjusted net income excluding restructuring and management transition charges as net (loss)/income excluding the impact of after-tax restructuring and management transition charges, (iv) adjusted net income as net (loss)/income excluding the impact of after-tax restructuring and management transition charges and the after-tax non-cash impact of the qualified pension plan, (v) adjusted earnings per share excluding restructuring and management transition charges as (loss)/earnings per share excluding the impact of after-tax restructuring and management transition charges and (vi) adjusted earnings per share as (loss)/earnings per share excluding the impact of after-tax restructuring and management transition charges and the after-tax non-cash impact of the qualified pension plan.  We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures, which our management relies on to assess our operating results, is useful in order to better understand the operating performance of our core business, provide enhanced visibility into our selling, general and administrative expense structure and to facilitate the comparison of our results to the results of our peer companies. 
We define free cash flow as cash flows from operating activities excluding discretionary cash contributions to the Companys primary pension plan, less capital expenditures and dividends paid, plus proceeds from the sale of assets.  Adjustments to exclude discretionary pension plan contributions are more indicative of the Companys ability to generate cash flows from operating activities.  We believe discretionary pension plan contributions are more reflective of financing transactions to pay-down off-balance sheet debt relating to the pension liability.  In addition, we believe that free cash flow is a relevant indicator of our ability to repay maturing debt, both on and off-balance sheet, revise our dividend policy or fund other uses of capital that we believe will enhance stockholder value. Free cash flow is limited and does not represent remaining cash flows available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt maturities, pay-down of off-balance sheet pension debt, and other obligations or payments made for business acquisitions.
We believe it is important to view each of these non-GAAP financial measures in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, the GAAP measures of operating (loss)/income, net (loss)/income, (loss)/earnings per share, and cash flows from operating activities, respectively.
 
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
By:                                            
/s/ Michael Dastugue
      Michael Dastugue
Date:  November 14, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
                          
Exhibit Number
Description
99.1                                  J. C. Penney Company, Inc. News Release issued November 14, 2011
 

 
 
Third Quarter Highlights
-- J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE: JCP) today reported that adjusted net income excluding restructuring and management transition charges for the third quarter ended October 29, 2011, was $24 million or $0.11 per share. Including restructuring and management transition charges, the Company reported a net loss of $143 million or $0.67 per share.   
PLANO, Texas, Nov. 14, 2011
A reconciliation of non-GAAP adjusted net income to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included with this release.
Executive Chairman Myron E. (Mike) Ullman, III, said, While our more affluent customers continued to respond well to jcpenneys attractions, the moderate customer continues to have limited discretionary spending capability, and that was apparent during the quarter.  However, the combination of customer response to the style and value we offer in categories such as womens and mens apparel and accessories, coupled with the expense reduction initiatives we put in place over the course of 2011, allowed us to report results in line with our expectations.  
"As we look to the holidays, jcpenney has an exciting marketing plan in place to showcase our wide range of great gifts available in stores and on jcp.com.  As our associates devote themselves to ensuring that our customers can make the holidays enjoyable and memorable for their families, our new CEO Ron Johnson and the leadership team are developing strategies for the next phase of jcpenneys transformation.  This next chapter will be exciting and rewarding for our customers, associates and shareholders.
 
 
 
 
Third Quarter Performance
Comparable store sales for the third quarter declined 1.6 percent.  Total sales decreased 4.8 percent, reflecting the Companys exit from its catalog and catalog outlet businesses.  As previously announced, the Company completed the sale of its outlet store business during the quarter. Internet sales through jcp.com were $341 million in the third quarter, decreasing 5.4 percent from last year.  The strongest merchandise results in the period were in womens accessories and mens apparel.  Geographically, the best performance was in the southeast region of the country.  
Gross margin decreased $146 million compared to last years third quarter.  As a percent of sales, gross margin decreased approximately 160 basis points to 37.4 percent, reflecting   
the softer-than-anticipated selling environment in the quarter and the resulting higher level of promotional activity.
Overall, SG&A expenses were well-managed during the quarter and decreased $84 million, or 6.3 percent, versus last year.  The savings generated in the third quarter were due primarily to lower marketing expenses and lower credit costs.  As a percent of sales, SG&A expenses decreased 50 basis points to 31.2 percent.  
For the third quarter, the Company incurred approximately $265 million in restructuring and management transition charges. These charges comprised the following:
Total operating expenses were 41.7 percent of sales for the quarter. The Companys operating loss for the third quarter totaled $171 million including the charges discussed above. Excluding restructuring and management transition charges, and the non-cash qualified pension plan expense of $22 million, adjusted operating income was $116 million for the quarter. A reconciliation of adjusted operating income and adjusted earnings per share to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included with this release.
 
 
 
 
Financial Condition
The Company ended the third quarter with approximately $1.1 billion in cash and short-term investments on its balance sheet. Interest expense for the quarter was approximately the same as last year at $55 million.  The Company ended the quarter with its inventory up 2.6 percent as compared to last year.
Outlook
The Companys 2011 fourth quarter guidance is as follows:
This guidance does not include the financial impact that is expected to be incurred in the fourth quarter as the Company executes changes to its pricing strategy in preparation for the spring 2012 season.  The Company expects to disclose the financial impact of these changes with its fourth quarter results.
  
Conference Call/Webcast Details
Management will host a live conference call and real-time webcast today, Nov. 14, 2011, beginning at 9:30 a.m. ET to discuss the Companys results.  To access the third quarter conference call, please dial (877) 407-0778, or (201) 689-8565 for international callers, and reference the J.C. Penney Company, Inc., Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.  Access to the 2011 third quarter conference call is open to the press and general public in a listen only mode.  The telephone playback will be available for two days beginning approximately two hours after the conclusion of the call by dialing (877) 660-6853, account code 286, and conference ID number 382062. The live webcast may be accessed via the Companys Investor Relations page at , or on streetevents.com (for subscribers) or investorcalendar.com.  Replays of the webcast will be available for up to 90 days after the event
jcpenney.net
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
For further information, contact:
Investor Relations
Kristin Hays and Angelika Torres; (972) 431-5500
jcpinvestorrelations@jcpenney.com
Media Relations
Darcie Brossart and Rebecca Winter; (972) 431-3400
  
jcpcorpcomm@jcpenney.com
Corporate Website
www.jcpenney.net
About J. C. Penney Company, Inc.
J. C. Penney Company, Inc., one of America's leading retailers, operates over 1,100 jcpenney department stores throughout the United States and Puerto Rico, as well as one of the largest apparel and home furnishing sites on the Internet, jcp.com. Serving more than half of Americas families each year, the jcpenney brand offers a wide array of private, exclusive and national brands which reflect the Companys vision to be Americas shopping destination for discovering great styles at compelling prices. Traded as JCP on the New York Stock Exchange, the $17.8 billion retailer is transforming its organization to build a sustainable, profitable enterprise that serves its customers, engages its associates and rewards its shareholders. For more information visit .
www.jcpenney.net
This release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements, which reflect the Company's current views of future events and financial performance, involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause the Company's actual results to be materially different from planned or expected results. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions, including inflation, recession, unemployment levels, consumer spending patterns, credit availability and debt levels, changes in store traffic trends, the cost of goods, trade restrictions, changes in pricing strategies, changes in tariff, freight and shipping rates, changes in the cost of fuel and other energy and transportation costs, increases in wage and benefit costs, competition and retail industry consolidations, interest rate fluctuations, dollar and other currency valuations, the impact of weather conditions, risks associated with war, an act of terrorism or pandemic, and a systems failure and/or security breach that results in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer, employee or Company information.  Please refer to the Company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties. Investors should take such risks into account when making investment decisions. We do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements as of any future date.
#  #  #
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
3
 
 
 
4


