FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20110516094854.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 431-1000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (the Company) issued an earnings press release on May 16, 2011 announcing its first quarter 2011 results of operations and financial condition. This information is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The schedules to the press release provide certain information regarding adjusted operating income, adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per share-diluted, and free cash flow, all of which may be considered non-GAAP financial measures under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. A reconciliation of each such non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is included with the release.
We define (i) adjusted operating income as operating income excluding the non-cash impact of the qualified pension plan and (ii) adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share-diluted as net income and earnings per share-diluted, respectively, excluding the after-tax non-cash impact of the qualified pension plan.  We believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income, adjusted net income, and adjusted earnings per share-diluted, which our management relies on to assess our operating results, is useful in order to better understand the operating performance of our core business, provide enhanced visibility into our selling, general and administrative expense structure and to facilitate the comparison of our results to the results of our peer companies.  Unlike our normal operating expenses, pension expense is determined using numerous complex assumptions about changes in pension assets and liabilities that are subject to factors that are beyond our control, such as market volatility. We believe it is useful to investors to understand the impact of the non-cash qualified pension expense on our results of operations, which provides more meaningful year-over-year comparisons.
We define free cash flow as cash flows from operating activities less capital expenditures and dividends paid, plus proceeds from the sale of assets.  We believe that free cash flow is a relevant indicator of our ability to repay maturing debt, both on and off-balance sheet, revise our dividend policy or fund other uses of capital that we believe will enhance stockholder value. Free cash flow is limited and does not represent remaining cash flows available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt maturities, pay-down of off-balance sheet pension debt, and other obligations or payments made for business acquisitions.
We believe it is important to view each of these non-GAAP financial measures in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, the GAAP measures of operating income, net income, earnings per share-diluted, and cash flows from operating activities, respectively.
Item 9.01                Financial Statements and Exhibits.
      
         Exhibit 99.1  J. C. Penney Company, Inc. News Release issued May 16, 2011
 (d)
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
                                    
      
Date:  May 16, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
                             
Exhibit Number
Description
99.1                                  J. C. Penney Company, Inc. News Release issued May 16, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
First Quarter Highlights
--
PLANO, Texas, May 16, 2011
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE: JCP) today reported net income of $64 million or $0.28 per share for the first quarter ended April 30, 2011, including certain previously announced restructuring charges.  Comparable store sales for the quarter grew 3.8 percent over last year driven by the Companys exclusive and private brands such as Liz Claiborne, Worthington and St. Johns Bay as well as ongoing growth of Sephora inside jcpenney, MNG by Mango, Call It Spring and the successful introduction of Modern Bride.  
 
Our ability to deliver on our objectives in the first quarter reflects the progress we are making in executing the Long Range Plan for growth we announced in April 2010, said Myron E. (Mike) Ullman, III, chairman and chief executive officer.  We are successfully implementing our merchandising initiatives, with strong gains in both our mens and womens apparel businesses.  Additionally, the steps we have taken to manage our expenses position us to increase the flow-through of sales to the bottom line.  We are accelerating this process through a series of initiatives across the Company to maximize operational effectiveness.  We expect these ongoing actions will result in substantial expense savings, beginning this year, and allow us to significantly accelerate profitability.
 
Specifically, following on streamline operations, carry out further process improvements across its stores, Supply
the work it has done to wind down operations that no longer deliver meaningful returns as well as significantly improve in-store execution, the Company now plans to
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chain, and Home Office, and optimize marketing expenses, while continuing to implement its sales growth initiatives.  The positive impact of the savings generated by these actions began in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 and will grow significantly over the next two years.  These expense initiatives will allow the Company to achieve its 2014 earnings target of $5.00 per share with a return to historic operating profit margin levels, even with fewer new store openings expected in the latter years of its Long Range Plan in light of challenging commercial real estate markets and other economic factors.
 
First Quarter Performance
Comparable store sales for the quarter rose 3.8 percent.  Total sales increased 0.4 percent, reflecting the Companys exit from its catalog business.  Internet sales through jcp.com were $376 million in the first quarter, increasing 6.6 percent over last year.  Overall, the strongest merchandise results for the Company in the period were in womens apparel and accessories and childrens apparel. Geographically, the best performance was in the southwest region of the country.  
 
Gross margin for the quarter was in-line with the Companys expectations and decreased approximately 90 basis points to 40.5 percent of sales.  The Company noted that gross margins generated from sales in jcpenney stores were up to its plan, yet, as expected, overall gross margins were negatively impacted by several factors, including the impact of certain non-comparable free shipping offers, as well as the absence of the Big Book catalog in this years first quarter.  Gross margin dollars decreased $35 million, or approximately 2.1 percent, compared to last years first quarter.
 
Overall, SG&A expenses were well under plan in the quarter and decreased $11 million, or 0.9 percent, versus last year due to the Companys ongoing efforts to manage expenses and optimize operations, while continuing to invest in the opening of additional Sephora inside jcpenney beauty boutiques and the launching of new businesses under its Growth Brands Division.   
 
As a percent of sales, SG&A expenses decreased 40 basis points to 32.5 percent. The non-cash qualified pension plan expense was $22 million compared to $55 million in the same period last year.  Total operating expenses were 36.4 percent of sales for the quarter.  Operating income increased to $161 million or 4.1 percent of sales.  
 
 
 
 
 
The Company is comfortable with the level and content of its inventory, as it is in-line with sales plans.  Customer facing inventory is up approximately 3%, with the remaining portion of the increase located throughout the Companys supply chain.
 
Financial Condition
The Company ended the first quarter with approximately $1.8 billion in cash and cash equivalents on its balance sheet.  During the quarter, the Company completed the renewal of its bank credit facility, providing further strength to its liquidity position. As previously noted, the facility is available for use for general corporate purposes and will mature in April 2016.  Interest expense for the quarter was $58 million compared to $59 million in last years first quarter.  This differs from the Companys earlier expectation for interest expense to increase by $9 million in the first quarter.  Rather than taking the one-time charge, the Company is required, under the applicable accounting rules, to amortize the $9 million in fees and expenses related to its previous credit facility over the five-year term of the renewed facility.  
 
Driving Operational Effectiveness and Profitabilty
Currently in the second year of its 2010  2014 Long Range Plan for growth, the Company sees opportunity to continue to grow sales by improving the sales productivity in its stores and on jcp.com, through the continued success of its growth initiatives and exclusive attractions like Liz Claiborne and Sephora inside jcpenney, while increasing profitability at an accelerated rate by optimizing its expense structure. The initial steps it will take to do this include:
 
As part of the Supply Chain restructuring, the Company will incur charges for accelerated depreciation of closed facilities and lease termination costs as well as severance and
 
 
 
 
 
 
outplacement services provided to the few hundred associates impacted by the restructuring. This includes $3 million in charges in the first quarter, with the remaining charges currently estimated as follows: $12 million in the second quarter of 2011; $20 million in the second half of 2011; and approximately $15 million during 2012.
 
Second Quarter and Full Year Outlook
Managements 2011 second quarter guidance is as follows:
 
For the full year, earnings per share are now expected to be in the range of $2.15 to $2.25 per share, including the impact of the Companys share repurchase program and the restructuring charges that will be taken in order to streamline operations going forward.
 
Conference Call/Webcast Details
 
Management will host a live conference call and real-time webcast today, May 16, 2011, beginning at 10:00 a.m. ET.  Access to the conference call is open to the press and general public in a listen-only mode.  To access the conference call, please dial (877) 407-0778, or (201) 689-8565 for international callers, and reference the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.  Access to the 2011 first quarter conference call is open to the press and general public in a listen only mode.  The telephone playback will be available for two days beginning approximately two hours after the conclusion of the call by dialing (877) 660-6853, account code 286, and conference ID number 372207.  The live webcast may be accessed via the Companys Investor Relations page at , or on streetevents.com
jcpenney.net
 
 
 
 
 
(for subscribers) or investorcalendar.com.  Replays of the webcast will be available for up to 90 days after the event.
 
The Company plans to announce its second quarter results on Friday, Aug. 12, 2011.
 
For further information, contact:
 
Investor Relations
Kristin Hays and Angelika Torres; (972) 431-5500;
jcpinvestorrelations@jcpenney.com
 
Media Relations
Darcie Brossart and Rebecca Winter; (972) 431-3400
  
jcpcorpcomm@jcpenney.com
 
Corporate Website
www.jcpenney.net
 
About J. C. Penney Company, Inc.
J. C. Penney Company, Inc., one of America's leading retailers, operates over 1,100 jcpenney department stores throughout the United States and Puerto Rico, as well as one of the largest apparel and home furnishing sites on the Internet, jcp.com. Serving more than half of Americas families each year, the jcpenney brand offers a wide array of private, exclusive and national brands which reflect the Companys vision to be Americas shopping destination for discovering great styles at compelling prices. Traded as JCP on the New York Stock Exchange, the $17.8 billion retailer is transforming its organization to support its Long Range Plan strategies to build a sustainable, profitable enterprise that serves its customers, engages its associates and rewards its shareholders.  For more information, visit .
www.jcpenney.net
 
 
This release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements, which reflect the Company's current views of future events and financial performance, involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause the Company's actual results to be materially different from planned or expected results. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions, including inflation, recession, unemployment levels, consumer spending patterns, credit availability and debt levels, changes in store traffic trends, the cost of goods, trade restrictions, changes in tariff, freight and shipping rates, changes in the cost of fuel and other energy and transportation costs, increases in wage and benefit costs, competition and retail industry consolidations, interest rate fluctuations, dollar and other currency valuations, the impact of weather conditions, risks associated with war, an act of terrorism or pandemic, and a systems failure and/or security breach that results in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer, employee or Company information.  Please refer to the Company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties. Investors should take such risks into account when making investment decisions. We do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements as of any future date.
 
 
 
 
 
3


