FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20110110165938.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 431-1000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02   Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
Effective January 11, 2011, the Board of Directors of J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (Company) elected Michael P. Dastugue, 46, as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company.  Mr. Dastugue has served as Senior Vice President, Finance of the Companys wholly-owned operating subsidiary, J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. (JCP), since February 2010.  Prior to that, Mr. Dastugue served as Senior Vice President, Director of Property Development of JCP from 2005 to 2010, and has been employed by the Company since 1991 in positions of increasing responsibility within the Finance Department. 60; He succeeds Robert B. Cavanaugh, 59, who will continue as an employee of JCP in the role of Special Advisor to the Chief Executive Officer until his expected retirement in January 2012.  A copy of the press release announcing these and other organizational changes is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
(b) and (c)  
 
In connection with his appointment, Mr. Dastugue will receive a base salary of $575,000.  His target incentive opportunity under the Companys annual cash incentive compensation program will be set at 75% of his base salary and he will also receive an equity award under the Companys long-term incentive compensation program having a market value of $1,250,000 on the date of grant.
 
 
On January 10, 2011, the Companys Board of Directors approved and adopted the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Management Incentive Compensation Program, effective January 30, 2011 (Program).  The Program will replace the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Management Incentive Compensation Program, effective December 31, 2007. The Program provides for the creation of one or more incentive compensation plans in which management associates of JCP, including the Companys executive officers, may be eligible to participate.  Under the Program, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board, or its delegate, has the authority to establish the terms of such plans, including the performance goals to be satisfied.  Such performance goals may relate to the performance of the Company as a whole or the performance of JCP, its subsidiaries, divisions, groups, business units, stores, or any other organizational unit.  The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the Program, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
(e)
 
 
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
  Exhibit 99.1     J. C. Penney Company, Inc. News Release issued January 10, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
 
 
 
                                  
By: 
/s/ Janet Dhillon      
Janet Dhillon
 
 
Date:  January 10, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
                      
Exhibit Number
Description
 
 
99.1                                         J. C. Penney Company, Inc. News Release issued January 10, 2011
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name.  The name of the Program is the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Management Incentive Compensation Program.
 
Purpose. The purpose of the Program is to promote the Companys pay-for-performance compensation philosophy by providing incentive compensation payments based on the operating results of the Company to designated members of the Companys management, who, through their efforts, directly and significantly impact the achievement of the Companys goals and objectives.
 
 
Unless otherwise defined in the Program or unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, as used herein, the following terms shall have the following respective meanings:
 
shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
 
shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
shall mean the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board.
Committee
 
shall mean J. C. Penney Company, Inc.
Company
 
shall mean J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc.
Corporation
 
shall mean each Participant whose compensation, for a Performance Period for which any payment under this Program or any Plan is being calculated based on the attainment of a Performance Measure, is, or in the Committees, or its designees, discretion may, be subject to the compensation expense deduction limitations set forth in section 162(m) of the Code.
Covered Associate
 
shall mean a determination of the individual performance of a Participant for a Performance Period based on the Participants performance as compared to the Participants individual goals for the Performance Period, or on such other performance criteria as may be established by the Committee, or its designee, as determined by management of the Corporation in its sole discretion. A Plan may provide
Individual Performance
 
 
 
 
 
 
for the payment of incentive compensation based on managements evaluation of a Participants Individual Performance for a Performance Period.
 
shall mean all General and Store Management Associates who are in a job category that has been designated as eligible for incentive compensation under the Program by the Committee, or its designee.
Management Associate
 
shall mean the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Mirror Savings Plan, as amended and restated effective December 31, 2009 and as further amended through December 9, 2008, as such may be further amended from time to time, and any successor plan or program.
Mirror Savings Plan
 
shall mean any Management Associate that is eligible to participate in a Plan.
Participant
 
shall mean an objective performance goal that must be satisfied for a Performance Period before any incentive compensation contingent on the satisfaction of that Performance Measure will be paid to a Participant. Any such objective performance goal shall be based on one or a combination of any two or more of the following performance-based metrics; provided, however, that different Performance Measures may be approved for different Participants during the same Performance Period: earnings per share, total stockholder return, operating profit, operating income, net income, cash flow, gross profit, gross profit return on investmen t, return on equity, return on capital, sales, revenue, gross margin, gross margin return on investment, earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), and earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization (EBITDA).
Performance Measure
 
shall mean the period established by the Committee with respect to a Plan for which a Performance Measure must be satisfied or for which a Participants Individual Performance must be evaluated for the purpose of determining whether any incentive compensation will be paid under a Plan to a Participant. With respect to incentive compensation that is intended to be Performance-Based Compensation, the Committee shall specify the Performance Period before any incentive compensation under the Program or a Plan is granted.
Performance Period
 
shall mean incentive compensation that is intended to constitute performance-based compensation within the meaning of section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code and the related Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder.
Performance-Based Compensation
 
shall mean a plan established under the Program that provides for the payment of incentive compensation to a Participant based on the attainment of one or more pre-established Performance Measures and/or an evaluation of a Participants Individual Performance.
Plan
 
 
shall mean the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Management Incentive Compensation Program, as contained herein, as such may be amended from time to time.
Program
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
shall mean the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Savings, Profit Sharing, and Stock Ownership Plan, as amended and restated effective December 31, 2007
Savings Plan
and as further amended through January 26, 2010, as such may be further amended from time to time.
 
shall mean any entity in which the Company, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns 50% or more of the securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the entity.
Subsidiary
 
 
.  The Program and the Plans shall be administered by, or under the direction of, the Committee.  The Committee shall determine all terms and conditions of the Plans established under the Program. The Committee shall have full and exclusive power to adopt such rules, regulations and guidelines for carrying out this Program and the related Plans established hereunder as it may deem necessary or appropriate in its sole discretion, provided such rules, regulations and guidelines are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Program or a Plan, and may modify or revoke those rules and regulations at such time and in s uch manner as it may deem proper, provided such modification or revocation is consistent with the requirements of Article V and does not materially adversely affect a Participant under the Program or a Plan, unless such modification or revocation is consented to by the Participant.
Administration
 
The Committee may establish different terms and conditions for different Plans or for different Participants under a Plan and for the same Participant with respect to different Plans or Performance Periods.  Except with respect to incentive compensation under the Program or a Plan that is intended to constitute Performance-Based Compensation, the Committee may delegate the performance of any function under this Program or any Plan to one or more employees of the Corporation, subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine. The Committee is authorized at any time during or after a Performance Period, in its sole and absolute discretion, to reduce or eliminate the incentive compensation payable under the Program or a Plan to any Participant for any reason. No reduction in any incentive compensation payable to any one Participant shall increase the amount of the incentive compensation payable to any other Participant.
 
.  The Committee shall be solely responsible for making awards of Performance-Based Compensation to Covered Associates.  The terms for such awards including the applicable Performance Measure(s) and Performance Period shall be determined by the Committee no later than the latest possible date that will not jeopardize such incentive compensation awards under the Program or a Plan from qualifying as Performance-Based Compensation.
Performance-Based Compensation
 
.  The Committee shall have full and exclusive power to interpret this Program and any Plan and the Committees interpretations of the Program or any Plans
Interpretation
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
shall be final and binding on any and all Participants to which the interpretation applies and on all related parties in interest including Beneficiaries.
 
.  Except with respect to the awarding of Performance-Based Compensation and compliance with the requirements of section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee shall have full discretion and authority to delegate any of its duties or responsibilities regarding the administration of the Program or the design, administration or operation of a Plan, including adopting such rules, regulations and guidelines for carrying out this Program and the related Plans established hereunder to one or more designees.
Delegation
 
 
.  The Program may consist of one or more Plan(s).  Each Plan shall relate to a specified Performance Period, which may be based on such period as shall be determined by the Committee, or its designee, and may be based on the attainment of a Performance Measure for one or more calendar months or one or more fiscal quarters or fiscal years of the Company. Once a Performance Period is complete and any incentive compensation payable under the Plan with respect to the applicable Performance Measure(s) for that Performance Period has been determined, the Performance Measure(s) applicable to the Performance Period shall laps e and be void and shall not be applicable to any future Performance Period unless adopted as Performance Measure(s) for a future Performance Period.  Once a Plan, by its terms, lapses, the Plan shall be deemed terminated and will have no further effect with respect to the Program or a Participant except in connection with the administration of the terminated Plan and/or the enforcement of a Participants rights regarding incentive compensation payable under the terminated Plan for a completed Performance Period.
In General
 
.  Eligibility to be a Participant for a Performance Period shall be determined by the Committee, or its designee, on an individual basis, or by group, business unit, Subsidiary, division, job description, or any other method of classification the Committee, or its designee, in its sole discretion deems appropriate. Classification as a Management Associate shall not guarantee an individuals being designated as a Participant and designation as a Participant for any one Performance Period shall not guarantee a Management Associates inclusion as a Participant for any future Performance Period.
Participation
 
.  The terms of each Plan shall be established by the Committee, or its designee, in its sole discretion.  Such terms shall include the Plans Participants.  In addition, such terms may prescribe the Performance Measure(s) that must be satisfied for a Performance Period based on such objective performance criteria as the Committee, or its designee, may establish.  Such objective performance criteria may relate to the performance of the Company as a whole or on the performance of the Corporation, Subsidiary, division, group, business unit, store, or any other organizational unit as the Committee, o r its designee, may prescribe and may be expressed on an absolute and/or relative basis, and
Design
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
may be based on or employ comparisons based on internal targets, past performance and/or the past or current performance of peer companies.
 
Each Plan shall include the total amount of incentive compensation payable on the attainment of a Performance Measure, which such amount with respect to a Covered Associate shall not exceed the limits otherwise provided for under this Program and shall not be payable other than as a result of the attainment of the Performance Measure, or in connection with the evaluation of a Participants Individual Performance, including the extent to which any incentive compensation will be paid if the target Performance Measure is not met or if the target Performance Measure is exceeded.  The Committee, or its designee, may establish any special adjustments that will be applied in calculating whether the Performance Measure has been met including, but not limited to, taking into consideration the affect of any extraordinary items, u nusual or non-recurring events, accounting changes, divestitures, or acquisitions.  In addition, the Committee, or its designee, may establish such terms as it considers necessary with respect to the payment of incentive compensation in the event a Participant is promoted, ceases to be a Management Associate, or in the event an otherwise ineligible individual becomes a Management Associate who would otherwise be a Participant during a Performance Period, or in the event of a Participants termination of employment (including death, disability, retirement, or termination with or without cause) or leave of absence during the Performance Period. Different terms and conditions may be established by the Committee, or its designee, for different Plans and for different Participants.
 
.  Except to the extent established in a particular Plan by the Committee, or its designee, there are no limits on the total amount of incentive compensation payable to a Participant under the Program. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Covered Associate shall receive Performance-Based Compensation in any fiscal year that exceeds the lesser of (i) $7,000,000, or (ii) 400% of the Covered Associates base salary for the fiscal year (before any salary reduction or deferral elections) as of the date of the grant of the Performance-Based Compensation.
Limits
 
.  The Committee shall adopt such rules and procedures as it shall deem necessary or desirable in order to ensure that any Performance Measure has been attained and the amounts payable under the Program or a Plan are certified, and such certified amounts shall be submitted to the Board for its approval prior to their payment to Participants.  Such verified amounts, when approved by the Board shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all interested parties, including the Company, Corporation, Subsidiaries and Participants.
Verification
 
.  Following the completion of a Plans applicable Performance Period, the Committee, or its designee, shall certify a Participants Individual Performance and/or the level of attainment of the Performance Measure(s) for the Performance Period. Any incentive compensation payable under a Plan shall be paid to a Participant in cash at a time determined by the Committee, but no later than two and one-half months after the end of the fiscal year in which a Plans applicable Performance Period ends.  If any Participant eligible to receive a distribution under a Plan is also a participant in the
Payment
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
Savings Plan or the Mirror Savings Plan and has elected to defer receipt of any incentive compensation received under a Plan to the Savings Plan or the Mirror Savings Plan then the incentive compensation payable to the Participant under the terms of the Plan shall be reduced by any such deferral under the Savings Plan or the Mirror Savings Plan.
 
. Any incentive compensation that becomes payable after the death of a Participant shall be paid to the Participants surviving spouse, if any, or, if the Participant has no surviving spouse, to the personal representative of the Participants estate.  If a Participant has deferred all or a portion of the Participants incentive compensation under the Savings Plan or the Mirror Savings Plan then the terms of the applicable plan shall govern the beneficiary designation and the payment of the amounts so deferred.
Beneficiary
 
 
The Board shall have the authority to amend, modify, suspend, and terminate the Program or any Plan established under the Program provided that no such amendment, modification, suspension, or termination shall adversely affect the rights of a Participant under a Plan with respect to a Performance Period that has begun, but has not yet been completed or with respect to any incentive compensation payable under a Plan that has not yet been paid without the Participants written consent.
 
 
. The Program and any Plan shall be unfunded, and neither the Company nor the Corporation shall be required to segregate any assets for the purpose of satisfying any obligation of the Company or the Corporation with respect to any amount payable under the Program or a Plan.
Unfunded Plan
 
. Neither the Program nor any Plan is an employment agreement and neither ensures or evidences to any degree the continued employment or the claim to continued employment of any Participant for any time or period or job.  No individual shall have any claim or right to participate in the Program or a Plan until such time as that individual becomes a Participant in a Plan.  No Participant or beneficiary shall, by virtue of this Plan, have any interest in any specific asset or assets of the Company or the Corporation. A Participant or beneficiary has only an unsecured contractual right to rec eive cash payments in accordance with and at the times specified by the Program or a Plan. No Participant shall have the right or ability to assign, pledge, or otherwise dispose of any part of a payment hereunder.
Rights of Participants and Beneficiaries
 
. Neither the adoption of the Program nor the establishment of a Plan shall be construed as creating any limitation on the power of the Board to adopt such other plans, agreements, or arrangements as it may deem appropriate and nothing contained in this Program or any Plan shall limit the ability of
Other Benefit and Compensation Programs
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
the Company or the Corporation to make payments or awards to Participants under any other such plan, agreement or arrangement.
 
. To the extent that Federal laws do not otherwise control, the internal laws of the State of Texas, without giving consideration to conflicts of laws principles that would require application of the law of another jurisdiction, will govern all questions concerning the construction, validity, and interpretation of the Plan and the performance and the obligations imposed by this Plan. The exclusive forum and venue for any legal action arising out of or related to the Plan shall be the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas, and each Participant, as a condition of participating in the Plan, submits to the persona l jurisdiction of that court. If neither subject matter nor diversity jurisdiction exists in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas, then the exclusive forum and venue for any such action shall be the courts of the State of Texas located in Collin County, and each Participant, as a condition of participating in the Plan, submits to the personal jurisdiction of that court.
Governing Law
 
. The Company shall have the right to withhold from cash payments under the Program or a Plan to a Participant or other person an amount sufficient to cover any required withholding taxes.
Tax Withholding
 
. Headings at the beginning of sections hereof are for convenience of reference, shall not be considered a part of the text of the Program, and shall not influence its construction.
Headings
 
. The provisions of the Program shall be construed as a whole in such manner as to carry out the provisions thereof and shall not be construed separately without relation to the context.
Construed as a Whole
 
The Program and any Plan established under the Program is intended to comply with "short term deferral exception" to section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). Accordingly, the provisions of the Plan shall be construed and administered so that the payment of incentive compensation qualifies in all instances for the short term deferral exception, to the maximum extent allowable.
Code Section 409A Compliance
.  
 
If, and to the extent any payment or benefit under the Program or a Plan should be deemed to be an item of deferred compensation subject to the requirements of Code section 409A, the provisions of the Plan applicable to that payment or benefit shall be applied, construed and administered so that such payment or benefit is made or provided in compliance with the applicable requirements of Code section 409A and its corresponding regulations.  Any payment from the Program or a Plan that is subject to the requirements of section 409A may only be made in a manner and upon an event permitted by section 409A, including the requirement that deferred compensation payable to a specified employee of a publicly traded company be postponed for six months after separation from service.  Payments upon Employment Term ination may only be made upon a separation from service, as determined in accordance with Code section 409A
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
and the Treasury regulations thereunder. In addition, should there arise any ambiguity as to whether any other provisions of the Plan would contravene one or more applicable requirements or limitations of Code section 409A and the Treasury regulations thereunder, such provisions shall be interpreted, administered and applied in a manner that complies with the applicable requirements of Code section 409A and the Treasury regulations thereunder.
 
. The Program shall become effective as of January 30, 2011; provided, however, that no incentive compensation payable under the Program or any Plan shall be considered Performance-Based Compensation unless the Program is approved by shareholders and the Committee complies with the requirements of section 162(m) of the Code and the related Treasury regulations thereunder in connection with the awarding of such incentive compensation.  The Program shall remain in effect until it has been terminated pursuant to Article V.
Effective Date of the Plan
 
 
 
8

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE:JCP) today a series of senior leadership promotions in its finance, sourcing and technology organizations.  These promotions include the appointment of Michael Dastugue as executive vice president and chief financial officer; Ken Mangone as executive vice president of Product Development, Design and Sourcing; and Ed Robben as senior vice president and chief information officer.  Mr. Dastugue, Mr. Mangone and Mr. Robben are all members of JCPenneys Executive Board.
PLANO, Texas (Jan. 10, 2011)
announced
 
Mr. Dastugue succeeds Robert Cavanaugh, who will be stepping down as CFO after 32 years with JCPenney.  Mr. Cavanaugh will serve as an adviser to Myron E. (Mike) Ullman, III, the Companys chairman and chief executive officer, providing counsel in support of JCPenneys long-term financial objectives, until his expected retirement in January 2012.  Mr. Mangone succeeds Peter McGrath, who retired December 31 after 37 years with JCPenney and who will continue to be a key contributor to JCPenneys Supplier Council.  Mr. Dastugue and Mr. Mangone report to Mr. Ullman.  Mr. Robben reports to Tom Nealon, group executive vice president, who is responsible for jcp.com, IT, corporate strategy and JCPenneys digital ventures organization and previously held the CIO position.
 
Mr. Ullman said, These promotions reflect the strong bench of management talent in our organization and our commitment to training and promoting leadership across the Company.  Michael, Ken and Ed each bring exceptional experience and expertise to their new positions, leading areas of critical importance and strength at JCPenney.
 
Mr. Ullman added, On behalf of the Board and entire JCPenney organization, I would like to thank Bob Cavanaugh and Peter McGrath for their many years of exceptional service.  As CFO over the past decade, Bob has played a key role in maintaining JCPenneys fiscal health during very challenging economic periods and positioning the Company as a leader in terms of financial strength in the retail industry.  Peter was instrumental in building the Companys design and
 
 
 
 
 
 
sourcing organization, which has set the standard in the industry.  They each trained outstanding successors and teams, which will result in a seamless transition in both of their roles.
 
, 46, is a highly skilled finance executive who has developed broad experience across a range of critical functions since joining JCPenney in 1991, including corporate finance as treasurer and SVP of property development, where he was responsible for the development of the Companys new store growth and renovations.  He served most recently as SVP of finance, and was responsible for directing the financial strategies of all JCPenney business units, including more than 1,100 JCPenney stores, the Companys international buying offices, logistics facilities and Home Office in Plano.  During his tenure at JCPenney, he has established himself as a respected leade r in finance, which has provided him with the foundation to be an excellent financial steward for JCPenney and to deliver enhanced value for shareholders.
Michael Dastugue
 
In his new role, , 51, directs JCPenneys industry-leading product development, design and sourcing organization, which has long been respected in the retail industry for pioneering innovation.  His responsibilities include driving the success of JCPenneys private and exclusive brands, which account for approximately 50 percent of the Companys annual sales.  Mr. Mangone joined JCPenney in 1977, and over his tenure at the Company has helped to establish JCPenneys private brands among the largest and most successful in the industry.  Furthermore, he played key roles in both the development of JCPenneys central sourcing strategy prior to the launch of JCPenneys sourcing organi zation in 1998, and most notably in the development of JCPenneys outstanding private brand design organization, creating a competitive advantage for the Company.  Under Mr. Mangones leadership, JCPenney has expanded its design talent from 80 to 230 people over the last four years, and established a robust recruitment and training program through which JCPenney recruits top talent from the best design schools in the country.
Ken Mangone
 
, 50, is now responsible for the Companys information technology platform, including the design and development of systems and infrastructure to ensure an exceptional online shopping experience.  Hejoined JCPenney in 2007 as SVP of Core Applications Development, and most recently directed information technology for the Companys merchant, sourcing, and direct organizations.  Prior to joining JCPenney, he held a vice president position at EDS, implementing technology solutions for the Navy Marine Corps Intranets (NMCI) program.  He previously served as a consulta nt at the Feld Group, an IT management consulting firm later acquired by EDS.
Ed Robben
 
 
 
For further information:
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                              
Media Relations
Investor Relations
 
Darcie Brossart (972) 431-3400                                                      Kristin Hays (972) 431-5500
                                                         
jcpcorpcomm@jcpenney.com
jcpinvestorrelations@jcpenney.com
 
Corporate Website
 
www.jcpenney.net
 
About JCPenney
 
JCPenney, one of America's leading retailers, operates over 1,100 department stores throughout the United States and Puerto Rico, as well as one of the largest apparel and home furnishing sites on the Internet, jcp.com. Serving more than half of Americas families each year, JCPenney offers a wide array of private, exclusive and national brands which reflect the Companys vision to be Americas shopping destination for discovering great styles at compelling prices. Traded as JCP on the New York Stock Exchange, the $17.6 billion retailer is transforming its organization to support its Long Range Plan strategies to build a sustainable, profitable enterprise that serves its customers, engages its associates and rewards its shareholders.  For more information visit .
www.jcpenney.net
 


