FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20111003154432.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 431-1000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02         Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
           Effective October 4, 2011, the Board of Directors of J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (the Company) elected Michael R. Francis, 48, as President of the Company.  Mr. Francis will be responsible for leading all Marketing and Merchandising functions for the Company.  A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Franciss election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
(c)
 
Mr. Francis is joining the Company from Target Corporation (Target), where he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer since August 2008.  He began his 25-year merchandising and marketing career in 1985 with Marshall Fields, which was subsequently acquired by Target, and became Targets Executive Vice President, Marketing in 2001.
 
Mr. Francis and the Company entered into a letter agreement describing certain terms of his employment, including base salary, target incentive award opportunity and a long-term incentive award in the form of restricted stock units, all as further described below.  As an executive officer of the Company, Mr. Francis will be eligible to enter into the Companys standard form of indemnification agreement, a copy of which was filed as Exhibit 10(ii)(ab) to the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 26, 2002, to participate in the 2011 Change in Control Plan for J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc., a copy of which was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 14, 2011, to enter into an Executive Termination Pay Agreement, a copy of which is filed herewith, and to receive the other benefits described in the letter agreement, a copy of which is filed herewith.
 
Mr. Francis and the Company have not entered into an employment agreement.  There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Francis and any other person pursuant to which he was elected as an executive officer of the Company.
 
Mr. Franciss base salary and target incentive award opportunity percentage under the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. 2011 Management Incentive Compensation Program are set forth below.  Mr. Francis will also receive a grant of 1,000,000 restricted stock units on November 16, 2011 (the Grant Date).  Mr. Franciss restricted stock units will vest one-third on the fourth anniversary of the Grant Date, one-third on the fifth anniversary of the Grant Date and one-third on the sixth anniversary of the Grant Date so long as he remains continuously employed by the Company through such vesting date; provided, however, that the restricted stock units will vest pro rata prior to such date if the Company terminates his employment other than for cause.  Mr. Franciss restricted stock units will fully vest if his employment terminates in certain cases within two years after a change in control of the Company.  In addition, Mr. Francis will receive a one-time cash signing bonus of $12,000,000 less applicable taxes within 30 days after the commencement of his employment with the Company in relinquishment of certain benefits and compensation provided by his previous employer and as an inducement to join the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01           Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
By:            
/s/ Janet Dhillon  
      Janet Dhillon
Executive Vice President,
General Counsel and Secretary
 
 
Date:  October 3, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
        
Exhibit Number
Description

Exhibit 10.1
 
October 2, 2011
Michael R. Francis
 
 
 
Dear Michael:
We are pleased to confirm our employment offer to you for the position of of J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (the Company) as part of the Companys Board of Directors execution of its strategy and management plan. As President you will be responsible for leading all Marketing and Merchandising functions including Marketing, Brand Marketing, Digital Marketing, Customer Relationship Management, jcp.com, Merchandising, Product Development and Sourcing, and Planning and Allocation. Your start date will be October 4, 2011, at which time you will become a member of the Executive Board.
President
Your total compensation summary is detailed below:
  $1,200,000  ($50,000 semi-monthly).
Base Salary:
Annual Performance Based Incentive
 
1
 
 
 
 
Cash Award
You will receive a one time signing bonus in the amount of $12,000,000 less applicable taxes.  The signing bonus less applicable taxes will be paid to you within 30 days after your start date. The signing bonus will be subject to the attached jcpenney Signing Bonus Agreement.
Restricted Stock Unit Award
You will receive a restricted stock unit award following the commencement of your employment with the Company.
Your restricted stock unit award will be for 1,000,000 restricted stock units.  This restricted stock unit award will be a stand-alone grant authorized by the HRCC and will be in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A. The grant date of your restricted stock unit award will be November 16, 2011.  If that date occurs during a blackout period during which Company insiders are prohibited from trading in the Companys stock, your grant date will be the first trading date following the end of the blackout period.  The Common Stock potentially issuable under the restricted stock unit award will be registered on a Form S-8 Registration Statement under the Securities Act of 1933 and listed on the New York Stock Exchange (or such other exchange on which the Common Stock may be listed from time-to-time).
Your 1,000,000 restricted stock unit award will vest one-third on the fourth anniversary of the grant date, one-third on the fifth anniversary of the grant date and one-third on the sixth anniversary of the grant date provided you are actively employed on each respective vesting date with no break in service. In addition, this restricted stock unit award will pro rata vest if you are terminated other than for cause under, and as defined in, the Executive Termination Pay Agreement (ETPA) in the form attached as Exhibit B.  The restricted stock unit award will fully vest if there is a change in control of the Company, as defined in the form of the award attached as Exhibit A, and your employment is terminated other than for cause or you terminate your employment for good reason within two years following a change in control.  Each restricted stock unit shall at all times be deemed to have a value equal to the then-current fair market value of a share of Common Stock.  At the time of vesting the Company will issue to you in cancellation of the restricted stock units, a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of vested restricted stock units.
Termination Arrangements
We recognize the need to provide protection to our executive officers in the event of termination of employment without cause or following a change in control of the Company.  Accordingly, we have put in place separate arrangements consisting of an individual ETPA, attached as Exhibit B, and a Change in Control Plan, attached as Exhibit C, to address termination situations not precipitated by the conduct of the executive officer.
The ETPA provides severance benefits to you in exchange for your agreement to comply with certain covenants. The benefits payable under the ETPA are not available if
2
 
 
 
 
benefits are received under the Change in Control Plan. The Company provides the Change in Control Plan if an executives employment is involuntarily terminated other than for cause, generally, within two years following a change in control of the Company.
Perquisites
As an executive officer of the Company, you are eligible to participate in the Financial Counseling Program and receive an Annual Health Exam.  You may select any firm for financial counseling, keeping within the Company guidelines.  The Company will pay up to $14,630 as a first-year fee and up to $10,125 annually for each succeeding year to cover the financial counseling firms fees.  The Company will also provide you with an allowance of up to $3,000 for an annual health exam.
Indemnification
As an executive officer of the Company you will be entitled to enter into the Companys standard indemnification agreement which is offered to all of its officers.  This indemnification agreement is effective upon signed acceptance by the executive officer.
Benefits
Our comprehensive benefits package includes options to choose:  healthcare (medical, dental, vision, flexible spending account); life insurance benefits; retirement benefits including 401(k) Savings Plan that includes a 3% matching contribution (the matching contribution is equal to a maximum of 3% on the first 6% of a participants contributions each pay period) and a 2% retirement account contribution, and a nonqualified deferred compensation plan.  Other benefits include vacation (with prior-service credit), and a range of additional programs available to you and your family.  
 
Relocation
If you relocate, jcpenney will pay for the relocation related expenses including, the movement of household goods, automobile, travel expenses, meals, house-hunting trips, and temporary housing in accordance with jcpenney relocation policy.
The employment relationship existing between jcpenney and its employees is employment-at-will.  Under this relationship, jcpenney may, at any time, decide to end your employment with or without cause, prior notice or discipline at jcpenneys sole discretion.  Likewise, you are free to end your employment at any time for any reasons with or without notice.
I look forward to your joining our team.
Regards,
/s/ Mike Ullman
Mike Ullman
jcpenney
Chairman & CEO
3
 
 
 
 
My signature acknowledges that I am accepting your offer of employment as outlined above. I acknowledge that this is not a contract of employment.
Name (Print):                 Michael R. Francis      
 
 
Signature:                                                                 
/s/ Michael R. Francis
Date:                             
October 3, 2011
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
jcpenney Signing Bonus Agreement
Terms
In connection with your employment by jcpenney, you will receive a one time signing bonus in the amount of $12,000,000 (Signing Bonus) less applicable taxes.  Your Signing Bonus less applicable taxes will be paid to you within 30 days after your October 4, 2011 start date (Start Date).  By accepting this bonus and signing this agreement (Agreement), you agree that if you voluntarily terminate your employment for any reason, or jcpenney terminates your employment for Cause within one year of your Start Date you will be required to reimburse jcpenney for a portion of your Signing Bonus you received.  The amount of the Signing Bonus you will be required to reimburse jcpenney will be determined by multiplying the portion of the Signing Bonus you received by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of whole calendar months that remain between the date of your termination employment and October 4, 2012, the first anniversary of your start date, and the denominator of which is 12. You will not be required to reimburse jcpenney for any portion of your Signing Bonus if your employment is involuntarily terminated by jcpenney for any reason other than for Cause, or if your employment is terminated as a result of your death, or Disability.
Definitions
For purposes of this Agreement the following terms will have the meanings prescribed to them below, unless the context requires otherwise:
Cause means (i) an intentional act of fraud, embezzlement, theft or any other material violation of law that occurs during or in the course of your employment with the jcpenney; (ii) intentional damage to the jcpenneys assets; (iii) intentional disclosure of the jcpenneys confidential information contrary to jcpenneys policies; (iv) material breach of your obligations under this Agreement; (v) intentional engagement in any competitive activity which would constitute a breach of your duty of loyalty or of your obligations under this Agreement; (vi) the willful and continued failure to substantially perform your duties for the jcpenney (other than as a result of incapacity due to physical or mental illness); or (vii) intentional breach of any of jcpenneys policies or willful conduct by you  that is in either case demonstrably and materially injurious to jcpenney, monetarily or otherwise; provided, however, that termination for Cause based on clause (iv) shall not be effective unless you  shall have written notice from the Chief Executive Officer of the jcpenney (which notice shall include a description of the reasons and circumstances giving rise to such notice) not less than 30 days prior to the Executives termination and you  have failed after receipt of such notice to satisfactorily discharge your duties.  For purposes hereof, an act, or a failure to act, shall not be deemed willful or intentional unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by you in bad faith or without a reasonable belief that your action or omission was in the best interest of jcpenney.  Failure to meet performance standards or objectives, by itself, does not constitute Cause.  Cause also includes any of the above grounds for dismissal regardless of whether the jcpenney learns of it before or after terminating your employment.
 
5
 
 
 
 
Code means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Disability means that you are totally and permanently disabled within the meaning of the Social Security Act (Act), provided that you have either (a) qualified for disability insurance benefits under such Act, or (b) in the opinion of the organization that administers jcpenneys disability plans, you have a disability which would entitle you to such disability insurance benefits except for the fact that you do not have sufficient quarters of coverage or have not satisfied any age requirements under such law.
Dispute Resolution
Any dispute between you and jcpenney under this Agreement shall be resolved (except as provided below) through informal arbitration by an arbitrator selected under the rules of the American Arbitration Association for arbitration of employment disputes (located in the city in which jcpenneys principal executive offices are based) and the arbitration shall be conducted in that location under the rules of said Association.  Each party shall be entitled to present evidence and argument to the arbitrator.  The arbitrator shall have the right only to interpret and apply the provisions of this Agreement and may not change any of its provisions. The arbitrator shall permit reasonable pre-hearing discovery of facts, to the extent necessary to establish a claim or a defense to a claim, subject to supervision by the arbitrator.  The determination of the arbitrator shall be conclusive and binding upon the parties and judgment upon the same may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof.  The arbitrator shall give written notice to the parties stating the arbitrators determination, and shall furnish to each party a signed copy of such determination.  The expenses of arbitration shall be borne equally by jcpenney and you or as the arbitrator equitably determines consistent with the application of state or federal law; provided, however, that your share of such expenses shall not exceed the maximum permitted by law.  To the extent applicable, in accordance with Code section 409A and Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(1)(iv)(A) or any successor thereto, any payments or reimbursement of arbitration expenses which jcpenney is required to make under the foregoing provision shall meet the requirements below.  jcpenney shall reimburse you for any such expenses, promptly upon delivery of reasonable documentation, provided, however, all invoices for reimbursement of expenses must be submitted to jcpenney and paid in a lump sum payment by the end of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the expense was incurred.  All expenses must be incurred within a 20 year period following your separation from service  The amount of expenses paid or eligible for reimbursement in one year under this section governing the resolution of disputes under this Agreement shall not affect the expenses paid or eligible for reimbursement in any other taxable year.   The right to payment or reimbursement under this Section governing the resolution of disputes under this Agreement shall not be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
as defined in section 409A of the Code and the applicable Treasury regulations thereunder.
6
 
 
 
 
Any arbitration or action pursuant to this section governing the resolution of disputes under this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of Delaware and, where applicable, federal law, without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws of such State.  The mandatory arbitration provisions of this Section shall supersede in their entirety the J.C. Penney Alternative, a dispute resolution program generally applicable to employment terminations.
Recoupment
To the extent permitted by law, you agree that jcpenney may deduct reimbursement payments from your final paycheck and/or vacation payout. If reimbursement payments are not paid timely, jcpenney shall be entitled to recover reasonable collection agency fees and attorneys fees incurred by jcpenney because of such noncompliance with this Agreement.
Not an Employment Contract
This Agreement does not constitute a contract of employment.  The employment relationship between you and jcpenney is employment-at-will.  Under this relationship, jcpenney may, at any time, decide to end your employment with or without cause, prior notice or discipline at jcpenneys sole discretion.  Likewise, you are free to end your employment at any time for any reasons with or without notice.
My signature acknowledges that I have read and agree to the terms outlined above in the Agreement.
Name (Print):                 Michael R. Francis      
 
 
Signature:                                                                 
/s/ Michael R. Francis
Date:                             
October 3, 2011
7

Exhibit 10.2
 
This Executive Termination Pay Agreement (the Agreement), dated as of _______________, 2011 is between J.C. Penney Corporation, Inc. (Corporation) and the undersigned member of the Corporations Executive Board (the Executive).
WHEREAS, in order to achieve its long-term objectives, the Corporation recognizes that it is essential to attract and retain superior executives to serve on its Executive Board;
WHEREAS, in order to induce the Executive to serve in the Executives position with the Corporation, the Corporation desires to provide the Executive with the right to receive certain benefits in the event the Executives employment is terminated, on the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and of the mutual covenants herein contained, it is agreed as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
services performed (whether as an employee or an independent contractor) by the Executive during the immediately preceding 36-month period
(or the full period of service to the Service Recipient if the employee has been providing services for less than the 36-month period).
 
 
                                                           
Title
Severance Period
Executive Vice Presidents and above                           18 months
Senior Vice President                                                    12 months
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
in connection with engaging in competition with the Corporation, any Proprietary Information of the Corporation.
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
Executives own behalf or on the behalf of any person, firm or company, directly or indirectly, attempt to influence, persuade or induce, or assist any other person in so persuading or inducing, any person, firm or company to cease doing business with, reduce its business with, or decline to commence a business relationship with, the Corporation (or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates).
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
including its divisions, affiliates, and licensees, conducts a similar business.
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any arbitration or action pursuant to this Section 5.1 shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of Texas and, where applicable, federal law, without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws of such State.  The mandatory arbitration provisions of this Section 5.1 shall supersede in their entirety the J.C. Penney Alternative, a dispute resolution program generally applicable to employment terminations.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation shall not be required to seek or participate in arbitration regarding any actual or threatened breach of the Executives covenants in Section 3, but may pursue its remedies, including injunctive relief, for such breach in a court of competent jurisdiction in the city in which the Corporations principal executive offices are based, or in the sole discretion of the Corporation, in a court of competent jurisdiction where the Executive has committed or is threatening to commit a breach of the Executives covenants, and no arbitrator may make any ruling inconsistent with the findings or rulings of such court.
 
11
 
 
 
 
the Corporation, if such successor expressly agrees to assume the obligations of the Corporation hereunder.
 
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
further intend that this Agreement shall constitute the complete and exclusive statement of its terms and that no extrinsic evidence whatsoever
may be introduced in any judicial, administrative, or other legal proceedings to vary the terms of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date and year first above written.
 
J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc.
By:
Name:  ____________________________
Title: ______________________________
Executive
____________________________________
 
14

 
Exhibit 99.1
- J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE: JCP), today announced that Michael R. Francis has been named president of the Company, effective Oct. 4. Mr. Francis, most recently a senior executive at Target Corporation, will report to incoming jcpenney Chief Executive Officer Ron Johnson.
PLANO, Texas, Oct. 3, 2011
Mr. Francis, 48, will be responsible for all merchandising, marketing, planning and allocation, and product development and sourcing functions at a time when the Company is focusing on redefining the department store.
Mr. Francis has more than 25 years of merchandising and marketing experience. He spent most of his career at Target, which he helped transform into the nations leading upscale discount store, serving as executive vice president and chief marketing officer since 2008.
"I am thrilled to welcome Michael to our team, said Mr. Johnson. He is an extremely talented executive with the vision and courage to re-imagine the department store experience. His ability to innovate and deep understanding of the industry will be invaluable as we set out to transform jcpenney into Americas favorite store."
Mr. Francis said, "This is a tremendous opportunity for me to get back to department store retail.  I began my career working on the sales floor of the State Street Marshall Fields in Chicago.  It was there where my passion for retail began and my understanding of the power and potential of the department store was formed. I am delighted to join jcpenney and work with Ron and the talented jcpenney team to help accelerate the momentum already taking place.  
Michael is an outstanding addition to the jcpenney senior leadership team.  Our ability to attract someone of his caliber is a testament to both the progress that the jcpenney brand has made and its potential for further growth, said Myron E. (Mike) Ullman, III, chairman and chief executive officer.  Our focus on building merchandise attractions and becoming a destination for discovering great style is taking hold.  Working side by side with Ron, I am confident that Michaels outstanding merchandising and marketing expertise will take the jcpenney brand to the next level while building shareholder value.
 
 
 
 
 
About Michael R. Francis
 
Mr. Francis began his merchandising and marketing career in 1986 as an executive trainee with Marshall Fields in Chicago. He joined Dayton-Hudson Corporation in 1990, when it acquired Marshall Fields, holding a variety of senior marketing positions in its department store division. He was promoted to executive vice president of Target Corporation in 2001 and chief marketing officer in August 2008. In January 2011, he became the executive committee sponsor for Target Canada, a role in which he oversaw the first-ever extension of Targets brand beyond the United States.
Mr. Francis currently serves on the National Board of the Smithsonian Institution and the boards of the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum and The Minneapolis Institute of Art. He is also lead director of Piper Jaffray Companies (NYSE:PJC). He received his bachelors degree in international studies from the University of Michigan.
Media Relations
Darcie Brossart and Rebecca Winter; (972) 431-3400
jcpcorpcomm@jcpenney.com
Investor Relations
Kristin Hays and Angelika Torres; (972) 431-5500
jcpinvestorrelations@jcpenney.com
Corporate Website
www.jcpenney.net
About J. C. Penney Company, Inc.
J. C. Penney Company, Inc., one of America's leading retailers, operates over 1,100 jcpenney department stores throughout the United States and Puerto Rico, as well as one of the largest apparel and home furnishing sites on the Internet, jcp.com. Serving more than half of America's families each year, the jcpenney brand offers a wide array of private, exclusive and national brands which reflect the Company's vision to be America's shopping destination for discovering great styles at compelling prices. Traded as "JCP" on the New York Stock Exchange, the $17.8 billion retailer is transforming its organization to support its Long Range Plan strategies to build a sustainable, profitable enterprise that serves its customers, engages its associates and rewards its shareholders. For more information, visit www.jcpenney.net.


