FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20110620082717.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 431-1000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02            Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment
of
   
   
  
  Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(b)            On June 20, 2011, J. C. Penney Company, Inc. issued a press release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
(d)           Exhibit 99.1                 J. C. Penney Company, Inc. News Release issued June 20, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
By:
/s/ Janet Dhillon
  
   
   
      Janet Dhillon
Executive Vice President,
General Counsel and Secretary
 
 
Date:  June 20, 2011
 
 
 
 
                       
Exhibit Number
Description
99.1                               J. C. Penney Company, Inc. News Release issued June 20, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Board of Directors of J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE: JCP) today provided further detail regarding the leadership succession plans it announced last week, under which Ron Johnson will become the Companys chief executive officer, succeeding Myron E. (Mike) Ullman, III.
Plano, Texas (June 20, 2011)
 
Upon joining the Company as CEO on Nov. 1, 2011, Mr. Johnson will report to the Board of Directors, of which he will become a member on Aug. 1, 2011, and to Mr. Ullman as executive chair of the board.  Mr. Johnson will have immediate responsibility for the Companys core merchandising and marketing functions and will have full responsibility for all other business areas by the end of a three-month transition period. The Board said that Mr. Ullman will remain in the position of executive chairman until Feb. 1, 2012, the beginning of the Companys 2012 fiscal year, at which time he will step down from the Company and its Board of Directors.
 
Thomas J. Engibous, lead director of J. C. Penney Companys Board, said, We are delighted that Ron is joining the Company.  Ron and Mike both believe it would help the transition to have a short period during which they will work together to lead the Company.  We greatly appreciate that Mike, who has been an outstanding leader at J. C. Penney, has agreed to remain as Executive Chairman through the end of this fiscal year to ensure a smooth transition of responsibilities.
 
Mr. Johnson said, I look forward to becoming the CEO of J. C. Penney and working side by side with Mike during the first three months of my tenure. I am excited to work with Mike, the Board and the entire J. C. Penney team as we lay the foundation to transform the way America shops.  I cannot wait to get started.
 
Mr. Ullman said, I look forward to working with Ron and assisting him in making a rapid and successful transition, and then to step aside, as has been my practice in previous CEO positions. Leadership succession planning was a key priority of mine and of our Board of Directors, and I am delighted we have accomplished it in such a positive way for J. C. Penney.
 
 
 
 
 
 
We are confident that the Company will reach its next stage of growth and success under Rons leadership.
 
 
Media Relations
Darcie Brossart (972) 431-3400
jcpcorpcomm@jcpenney.com
 
 
Investor Relations
Kristin Hays and Angelika Torres; (972) 431-5500
jcpinvestorrelations@jcpenney.com
 
 
Corporate Website
www.jcpenney.net
 
About J. C. Penney Company, Inc.
J. C. Penney Company, Inc., one of America's leading retailers, operates over 1,100 jcpenney department stores throughout the United States and Puerto Rico, as well as one of the largest apparel and home furnishing sites on the Internet, jcp.com. Serving more than half of Americas families each year, the jcpenney brand offers a wide array of private, exclusive and national brands which reflect the Companys vision to be Americas shopping destination for discovering great styles at compelling prices. Traded as JCP on the New York Stock Exchange, the $17.8 billion retailer is transforming its organization to support its Long Range Plan strategies to build a sustainable, profitable enterprise that serves its customers, engages its associates and rewards its shareholders. For more information, visit .
www.jcpenney.net
 
This release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements, which reflect the Company's current views of future events and financial performance, involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause the Company's actual results to be materially different from planned or expected results. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions, including inflation, recession, unemployment levels, consumer spending patterns, credit availability and debt levels, changes in store traffic trends, the cost of goods, trade restrictions, changes in tariff, freight and shipping rates, changes in the cost of fuel and other energy and transportation costs, increases in wage and benefit costs, competition and retail industry consolidations, interest rate fluctuations, dollar and other currency valuations, the impact of weather conditions, risks associated with war, an act of terrorism or pandemic, and a systems failure and/or security breach that results in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer, employee or Company information. Please refer to the Company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties. Investors should take such risks into account when making investment decisions. We do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements as of any future date.
 
 
 
 


