FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20110126165327.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 431-1000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 24, 2011, J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (Company) announced a series of actions designed to streamline its operations and focus the Companys investments on those areas of the business with the highest potential for growth.  The actions the Company will be taking include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company will initiate the announced actions in 2011 and expects to complete the actions by the end of fiscal 2012.  The Company expects to incur estimated pre-tax charges of approximately $30 million, or $0.08 per share, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and approximately $20 million, or $0.05 per share, in future periods to reflect the transition.  A summary of the major components of these estimated charges (in millions) is presented below:
 
The above charges are estimates, and the actual charges may vary materially based on various factors, including timing of the closings; sales, mark downs and other factors affecting inventory value; factors relating to real estate including sale proceeds and timing and amount of sublease income and other lease expense; actual associate terminations and benefits; changes in managements assumptions and plans; and other factors.
 
The Company believes that these streamlining measures will result in a positive impact to the Companys earnings in 2012, the first full year of implementation, of approximately $25 million to $30 million, or approximately $0.07 per share.  A copy of the press release announcing these actions is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01        Other Events.
 
On January 24, 2011, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had agreed to name William A. Ackman, founder and Chief Executive Officer of Pershing Square Capital Management, and Steven Roth, Chairman of the Board of Vornado Realty Trust, as directors.  Mr. Ackman and Mr. Roth are expected to be elected to the Board no later than February 22, 2011.  In conjunction with the election of Mr. Ackman and Mr. Roth, the Companys Board of Directors will expand its size from 11 to 13 members.  In addition, the Company announced that the Board of Directors expects to appoint an additional director in the near future.  A copy of the press release announcing the prospective appointments of Mr. Ackman and Mr. Roth to the Board is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
Item 9.01        Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
        Exhibit 99.1     J. C. Penney Company, Inc. News Release issued January
(d)
  24, 2011 announcing streamlining actions
 
Exhibit 99.2     J. C. Penney Company, Inc. News Release issued January
24, 2011 announcing prospective election of William Ackman and Steven Roth to the Companys Board of Directors
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
 
 
 
By:
/s/ Janet Dhillon
      Janet Dhillon
 
 
Date:  January 26, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                      
Exhibit Number
Description
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE:JCP) announced a series of actions designed to build on its accomplishments in 2010 and allow it to focus on its highest potential growth opportunities by reducing investment in areas of the business that no longer contribute meaningfully to its financial performance. They include closing certain underperforming store locations, the wind down of its catalog and outlet operations, and streamlining its Call Center operations and Custom Decorating business.
PLANO, Texas (Jan. 24, 2011)
today
 
These actions follow an extensive review by JCPenneys Executive Board and Board of Directors of opportunities for enhanced profitability and sales growth within the framework of the Companys Long Range Plan.
 
Myron E. (Mike) Ullman, III, chairman and chief executive officer, said, We are focused on increasing profitability and accelerating our growth. To achieve this, we undertook a thorough evaluation of our operations to ensure we are managing costs and allocating our resources to the strategies that will best drive both our top and bottom line, with the objective of delivering enhanced returns to shareholders.
 
Mr. Ullman continued, The actions we are announcing today are significant steps in an ongoing process to ensure we are best managing costs and allocating our resources effectively to the strategies that will allow us to improve margins and drive profitable sales over the long term. We see significant opportunities ahead in our core department store and online businesses as part of our Long Range Plan and we are well prepared to capitalize on them in 2011 and the years to come.
 
The actions the Company is taking include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company will initiate these actions over the course of 2011 and expects that they will result in a positive impact to earnings in 2012, the first full year of implementation, of approximately $25 to $30 million, or approximately $0.07 per share.  Additionally, there will be estimated one-time charges of approximately $30 million, or $0.08 per share, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and approximately $20 million, or $.05 per share during 2011 to reflect the transition. 
 
It is always difficult to make decisions that impact our associates, and we are committed to treating them fairly.  As we continue to position our Company for the future, we determined that these steps are necessary to capitalize on the growth opportunities we see ahead while we ensure we are managing costs appropriately and continually enhancing the profitability of our operations, said Mr. Ullman.
 
When it announces its fourth quarter earnings for fiscal 2010, on Friday, Feb. 25, the Company will provide an overview of the initiatives it will undertake in 2011 to capitalize on its growth opportunities in its core department store and online businesses.
th
 
In a separate press release today, JCPenney announced that its Board of Directors has agreed to appoint two new members to the Board.
 
Investment Community Conference Call & Webcast at 9:30 am ET Today
JCPenneys management will hold a live conference call this morning at 8:30 am CT / 9:30 am ET to discuss its plans and take questions from the investment community.  Access to the conference call is open to the press and general public in a listen-only mode. To access the conference call, please dial (877) 407-0778, or (201) 689-8565 for international callers, and reference the JCPenney Conference Call. The telephone playback will be available for seven days beginning approximately two hours after the conclusion of the call by dialing (877) 660-6853, account code 286, conference ID number 365060. The live webcast may be accessed via JCPenney's Investor Relations page at jcpenney.net, on streetevents.com (for members) or on investorcalendar.com. Replays of the webcast will be available for up to 90 days after the event.
 
For further information:
Investor Relations
Kristin Hays and Angelika Torres; (972) 431-5500
jcpinvestorrelations@jcpenney.com
 
Media Relations
Darcie Brossart and Rebecca Winter; (972) 431-3400
jcpcorpcomm@jcpenney.com
 
Corporate Website
www.jcpenney.net
 
 
 
About JCPenney
 
JCPenney, one of America's leading retailers, operates over 1,100 department stores throughout the United States and Puerto Rico, as well as one of the largest apparel and home furnishing sites
 
 
 
 
on the Internet, jcp.com. Serving more than half of Americas families each year, JCPenney offers a wide array of private, exclusive and national brands which reflect the Companys vision to be Americas shopping destination for discovering great styles at compelling prices. Traded as JCP on the New York Stock Exchange, the $17.6 billion retailer is transforming its organization to support its Long Range Plan strategies to build a sustainable, profitable enterprise that serves its customers, engages its associates and rewards its shareholders.  For more information, visit .
www.jcpenney.net
This release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements, which reflect the Company's current views of future events and financial performance, involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause the Company's actual results to be materially different from planned or expected results. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions, including inflation, recession, unemployment levels, consumer spending patterns, credit availability and debt levels, changes in store traffic trends, the cost of goods, trade restrictions, changes in tariff, freight, paper and postal rates, changes in the cost of fuel and other energy and transportation costs, increases in wage and benefit costs, competition and retail industry consolidations, interest rate fluctuations, dollar and other currency valuations, risks associated with war, an act of terrorism or pandemic, and a systems failure and/or security breach that results in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer, employee or Company information. Please refer to the Company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties. Investors should take such risks into account when making investment decisions. We do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements as of any future date.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE:JCP) today that its Board of Directors agrees to name William A. Ackman, founder and CEO of Pershing Square Capital Management, and Steven Roth, chairman of the board of Vornado Realty Trust, as directors. They are expected to be elected by the time of the Company's Board of Directors meeting on Feb. 22, 2011, which would expand the size of the Board from 11 to 13 members. The Board also expects to appoint an additional director in the near future.
PLANO, Texas (Jan. 24, 2011)
announced
 
Pershing Square and Vornado are among the Companys largest shareholders and Mr. Ackman and Mr. Roth have expertise in areas of relevance to JCPenneys business.
 
Myron E. (Mike) Ullman, III, chairman and chief executive officer of JCPenney, said, We welcome Bill and Steve to the Board.  They share our passion for operational excellence and are committed to enhancing value for all of the Companys shareholders.  We look forward to benefitting from their expertise.
 
William A. Ackman, 44, is the founder and CEO of Pershing Square, which has invested in retailers including Sears Holdings, Target Corp., and McDonalds, among others, consumer brand companies including Fortune Brands and Kraft Foods, and real estate companies including shopping mall owner General Growth Properties, where Mr. Ackman recently served as a director.  He is currently chairman of the Howard Hughes Corporation (NYSE:HHC), a real estate development company, which was spun off of General Growth Properties in November of 2010.
 
Steven Roth, 69, is chairman of the board of Vornado, where he served as CEO from 1981 to 2009.  In addition to his deep experience in real estate, throughout the course of his career Mr. Roth has invested in retailers, including ToysRUs, Alexanders, McDonalds, Sears Holdings Corp. and Sears Canada Inc.  Mr. Roth is Chairman and CEO of Alexanders Inc., a REIT investing in New York properties, and Managing General Partner at Interstate Properties.
 
For further information:
Investor Relations
Kristin Hays and Angelika Torres; (972) 431-5500
jcpinvestorrelations@jcpenney.com
 
Media Relations
Darcie Brossart and Rebecca Winter; (972) 431-3400
jcpcorpcomm@jcpenney.com
 
Corporate Website
www.jcpenney.net
 
 
 
 
About JCPenney
 
JCPenney, one of America's leading retailers, operates over 1,100 department stores throughout the United States and Puerto Rico, as well as one of the largest apparel and home furnishing sites on the Internet, jcp.com. Serving more than half of Americas families each year, JCPenney offers a wide array of private, exclusive and national brands which reflect the Companys vision to be Americas shopping destination for discovering great styles at compelling prices. Traded as JCP on the New York Stock Exchange, the $17.6 billion retailer is transforming its organization to support its Long Range Plan strategies to build a sustainable, profitable enterprise that serves its customers, engages its associates and rewards its shareholders.  For more information, visit .
www.jcpenney.net
This release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements, which reflect the Company's current views of future events and financial performance, involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause the Company's actual results to be materially different from planned or expected results. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions, including inflation, recession, unemployment levels, consumer spending patterns, credit availability and debt levels, changes in store traffic trends, the cost of goods, trade restrictions, changes in tariff, freight, paper and postal rates, changes in the cost of fuel and other energy and transportation costs, increases in wage and benefit costs, competition and retail industry consolidations, interest rate fluctuations, dollar and other currency valuations, risks associated with war, an act of terrorism or pandemic, and a systems failure and/or security breach that results in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer, employee or Company information. Please refer to the Company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties. Investors should take such risks into account when making investment decisions. We do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements as of any future date.


