FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20110919160617.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 431-1000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 16, 2011, J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (the Company) entered into a stockholders agreement (the September Agreement) with Vornado Realty Trust and its controlled affiliates (collectively, Vornado).
 
Pursuant to the September Agreement, Vornado is prohibited from acquiring beneficial ownership of shares of common stock of 50 par value of the Company (the Common Stock) and/or derivative securities whose value is derived in whole or in part from the value of the Common Stock if, after the acquisition, Vornado would have beneficial ownership and/or economic exposure to the equivalent of more than 15.4% of the shares of Common Stock.  In addition, until October 10, 2011, the September Agreement prohibits Vornado from acquiring beneficial ownership of any additional shares of Common Stock.  The September Agreement requires that Vornado cause the number of shares of Common Stock as to which it possesses the power to vote (or direct the voting of) in excess of the Applicable Share Number to be present for quorum purposes and to be voted at a meeting of the Companys stockholders either (1) as recommended by the Companys Board of Directors or (2) in direct proportion to the manner in which all stockholders (other than Vornado and Pershing Square Capital Management, L.P. and its controlled affiliates) vote.  As used in the September Agreement, the Applicable Share Number means the number of shares of Common Stock equal to the lesser of (a) 9.9% of the shares of Common Stock and (b) the greater of (i) 9.0% of the shares of Common Stock and (ii) the number of shares of common stock in clause (a) minus the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock of which Vornado has acquired beneficial ownership or economic exposure through derivative securities after the date of the September Agreement.
 
The September Agreement provides that Vornado will not knowingly transfer shares of Common Stock to any person if, following such transfer, such person would beneficially own 10% or more of the shares of Common Stock, subject to certain limitations in the case of a tender or exchange offer with respect to which the Company accepts or takes no position.
 
The September Agreement permits Vornado to designate one member of the Board of Directors, which member is currently Steven Roth.  The September Agreement will terminate if the Company fails to nominate Vornados board designee in certain cases, if Vornado ceases to beneficially own at least 5.9% of the shares of Common Stock for one year or if Vornado is no longer required to report beneficial ownership of Common Stock on Schedule 13D or Schedule 13G under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  After September 16, 2016, Vornado may also elect to terminate the September Agreement at any time if, at such time, it beneficially owns and/or has economic exposure to the equivalent of no more than 23,400,000 shares of Common Stock (equitably adjusted to reflect the effect of any stock split, split-up, reverse stock split, stock dividend or similar change with respect to the Common Stock).
 
In connection with the execution of the September Agreement, the Company has entered into an amendment (Amendment No. 2) to the Stockholder Protection Rights Agreement by and between the Company and Mellon Investor Services, LLC (operating with the service name BNY Mellon Shareowner Services) as the Rights Agent, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto (the Rights Agreement), pursuant to which the Company declared a dividend of one preferred stock purchase right for each outstanding share of Common Stock.  Amendment No. 2 amends the definition of Acquiring Person in the Rights Agreement to permit Vornado to acquire securities in accordance with the terms and conditions of the September Agreement.
 
 
 
The September Agreement terminates the Stockholders Agreement dated February 24, 2011 between the Company and Vornado (the February Agreement), in which Vornado had agreed to cause the number of shares of Common Stock as to which it possessed the power to vote (or direct the voting of) in excess of 9.9% to be present for quorum purposes and to be voted at a meeting of the Companys stockholders either (a) as recommended by the Companys Board of Directors or (b) in direct proportion to the manner in which all stockholders (other than Vornado and Pershing Square Capital Management, L.P. and its controlled affiliates) vote.
 
The foregoing summaries of Amendment No. 2 and the September Agreement are qualified in their entirety by reference to the copies of Amendment No. 2 and the September Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 and Exhibit 10.1, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information set forth above regarding the termination of the February Agreement is incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth herein.
 
The information set forth above regarding Amendment No. 2 is incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth herein.
 
              Exhibit 4.1             Amendment No. 2 to Stockholder Protection Rights Agreement
(d)
 between
the Company and Mellon Investor Services, LLC
    Exhibit 10.1            Stockholders Agreement, dated September 16, 2011, between the
  Company and Vornado Realty Trust and its controlled affiliates
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
By:           
/s/ Janet Dhillon
      Janet Dhillon
Executive Vice President,
General Counsel and Secretary
 
 
Date: September 19, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
                
Exhibit Number
Description
4.1                               Amendment No. 2 to Stockholder Protection Rights
Agreement between the Company and Mellon Investor Services, LLC
10.1                             Stockholders Agreement, dated September 16, 2011,
between the Company and Vornado Realty Trust and its controlled affiliates

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
This Amendment No. 2 to Stockholder Protection Rights Agreement (this ) is dated as of September 16, 2011 (the ) and amends the Stockholder Protection Rights Agreement, dated as of October 15, 2010 and amended as of August 19, 2011 (the ), between J. C. Penney Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ) and Mellon Investor Services, LLC (operating with the service name BNY Mellon Shareowner Services), a New Jersey limited liability company, as Rights Agent (the ).  Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Rights Agreement.
Amendment
Effective Date
Rights Agreement
Company
Rights Agent
 
WHEREAS, on September 16, 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company determined it is in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders to amend the Rights Agreement on the terms set forth herein;
 
WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 5.4 of the Rights Agreement, prior to the Separation Time, the Company and the Rights Agent may from time to time supplement or amend this Agreement without the approval of any holders of Rights;
 
WHEREAS, the Rights Agent is hereby directed to join in this Amendment; and
 
WHEREAS, an officer of the Company has delivered to the Rights Agent a certificate as to the compliance of this Amendment with the terms of the Rights Agreement.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the respective agreements set forth herein, the parties hereby agree as follows:
1.           .
Amendment of the Rights Agreement
 
(a)
  
Section 1.1 of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following sentence into the paragraph defining the term Acquiring Person immediately after the last sentence of such paragraph:
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the term Acquiring Person shall not include the Vornado Stockholders to the extent that such inclusion would result solely from the Vornado Stockholders becoming the Beneficial Owner of shares of Common Stock from and after effectiveness of, prior to the termination of and as expressly permitted by the Vornado Stockholder Agreement, and continuing to Beneficially Own such shares of Common Stock, so long as such Beneficial Ownership is permitted under the Vornado Stockholder Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)
 
Section 1.1 of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following paragraphs immediately following the paragraph defining the term Trust Agreement:
 
Vornado Stockholder shall mean the Stockholders, as such term is defined in the Vornado Stockholder Agreement.
Vornado Stockholder Agreement shall mean the letter agreement, dated September 16, 2011, between the Company, on the one hand, and Vornado Realty Trust and its controlled affiliates, on the other hand, as amended, restated, supplemented, modified or otherwise changed from time to time.
2.           . Except as and to the extent expressly modified by this Amendment, the Rights Agreement and the exhibits thereto shall remain in full force and effect in all respects without any modification. This Amendment shall be deemed an amendment to the Rights Agreement and shall become effective on the Effective Date. In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between this Amendment and the Rights Agreement and the exhibits thereto, the provisions of this Amendment shall govern.
No Other Amendment; Effect of Amendment
 
3.           . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts (including by facsimile and .pdf) and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
4.           . If any term, covenant, restriction or provision hereof or the application thereof to any circumstance shall, in any jurisdiction and to any extent, be invalid or unenforceable, such term, covenant, restriction or provision shall be ineffective as to such jurisdiction to the extent of such invalidity or unenforceability without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining terms, covenants, restrictions and provisions hereof or the application of such term, covenant, restriction or provision to circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid or unenforceable; , , that if any such excluded term, covenant, restriction or provision shall adversely affect the rights, immunities, duties or obligations of the Rights Agent, the Rights Agent shall be entitled to resign immediately.
Severability
provided
however
 
5.           . Descriptive headings appear herein for convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of the provisions hereof.
Descriptive Headings
 
6.           . Each of the parties to this Amendment shall cooperate and take such action as may be reasonably requested by the other party in order to carry out the provisions and purposes of this Amendment, the Rights Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereunder and thereunder.
Further Assurances
 
7.           . This Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of Delaware and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed
Governing Law
2
 
 
 
 
in accordance with the laws of such State applicable to contracts to be made and performed entirely within such State; , , that all provisions regarding the rights, duties, obligations and liabilities of the Rights Agent shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such State.
provided
however
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Amendment No. 2 to Stockholder Protection Rights Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
 
By:   
/s/ Michael Dastugue  
Name:    Michael Dastugue
Title:      Executive Vice President
 Chief Financial Officer
 
MELLON INVESTOR SERVICES, LLC
 
By:       
/s/ Janis Mason    
Name: Janis Mason
Title: Vice President

Exhibit 10.1
September 16, 2011
 
Vornado Realty Trust
888 Seventh Avenue, 44th Floor
New York, NY  10019
Attention:  Alan Rice, Esq.
Gentlemen:
 
This letter constitutes the agreement (this ) between J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (the ), on the one hand, and Vornado Realty Trust and its controlled affiliates (collectively, the ), on the other hand, with respect to the matters set forth below.
Agreement
Company
Stockholders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
September 3, 2010 of the outstanding Common Stock.  The Stockholders represent and warrant that, as of the date hereof, there has been no change in such beneficial ownership (other than as a result of changes in number of shares of Common Stock outstanding) and that there is no material information that would be required to be reported in an amendment to the October 8 13D (such Schedule 13D, as amended on November 10, 2010, January 25, 2011, February 9, 2011 and February 25, 2011, the ) that has not been reported on a Schedule 13D/A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and publicly available on the Securities and Exchange Commissions EDGAR database prior to September 16, 2011.
Vornado 13D
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
and Pershing Square Capital Management, L.P. and its controlled affiliates) vote for, against, withhold or otherwise in respect of each matter, resolution, action or proposal that is submitted to the stockholders of the Company at such meeting.  To the extent that a vote in accordance with the foregoing results in a loss or waiver of a Stockholders appraisal rights under Section 262 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Company will provide such Stockholder with such lost or waived appraisal rights.  The  as of a particular record date means the number of shares of Common Stock equal to the lesser of (a) 9.9% of the shares of Common Stock outstanding as of such record date (the ) and (b) the greater of (i) 9.0% of the shares of Common Stock outstanding as of such record date and (ii) the Base Share Number minus the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock which the Stockholders have acquired beneficial ownership of, and/or economic exposure to, during the period from and including the date of this Agreement through and including such record date and which the Stockholders continue to hold as of such record date.  The Applicable Share Number shall be equitably adjusted to reflect the effect of any stock split, split-up, reverse stock split, stock dividend or similar change with respect to the Common Stock.  Other than through communications or other actions that seek to influence holders of Common Stock generally, the Stockholders shall not control or exert influence over or seek to control or exert influence over the voting of any shares of Common Stock as to which a counterparty to any Synthetic Long Position of the Stockholders (any such counterparty, an ) possesses power to vote or direct the voting (any such shares of Common Stock, ) and shall not acquire or establish any Synthetic Long Position unless such Synthetic Long Position is governed by a written agreement between the Stockholders and the SLP Counterparty providing that the Stockholders have no right, and are not permitted, to control or exert influence over (other than through communications or other actions that seek to influence holders of Common Stock generally) the voting of any related Subject Shares.  In connection with any Synthetic Long Position, the Stockholders shall deliver to the Company a copy of the portions of any written agreement with the applicable SLP Counterparty that include the provisions described in the immediately-preceding sentence and, prior to acquiring or establishing or agreeing to acquire or establish such Synthetic Long Position, shall inform the SLP Counterparty of the Stockholders obligations under this Agreement.
Applicable Share Number
Base Share Number
SLP Counterparty
Subject Shares
 
3
 
 
 
 
Stock beneficially owned by such Person, would be 10% or more of the then-outstanding shares of Common Stock.  If a tender or exchange offer for securities representing 19.9% or more of the voting power of the outstanding securities of the Company is launched or commenced by a party other than the Company, the Stockholders or Pershing Square Capital Management, L.P. and its controlled affiliates, then, (a) unless prior to the 11th business day (as defined in Rule 14a-1 under the Exchange Act) after the date on which such tender or exchange offer has commenced (as such term is used in Rule 14d-2(a) under the Exchange Act), the Company has theretofore disclosed that it recommends rejection of such tender or exchange offer or (b) in the event the Company has disclosed that it recommends rejection of such tender or exchange offer, it subsequently discloses that it has changed such recommendation to reject such tender offer, in either of cases (a) or (b), the Stockholders may tender Common Stock into such tender or exchange offer notwithstanding the immediately-preceding sentence.
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
ownership of any particular person (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), such person will be deemed to have beneficial ownership of all securities that such person has the right to acquire, whether such right is currently exercisable or is exercisable only after the passage of time; (e) the term  shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Rights Agreement, as in effect on the date of this Agreement, (f) the term  shall have the meaning ascribed to such term as used in Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act, and (g) the term  means with respect to a security, the sale, transfer, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, assignment or disposition of such security or the beneficial ownership thereof, and each agreement, arrangement or understanding, whether or not in writing, to effect any of the foregoing, and as a verb,  shall have a correlative meaning; provided, that a pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance or similar disposition shall not be deemed a Transfer if it is in the ordinary course.  Based on the information disclosed in the Vornado 13D, the Company shall not assert that the Stockholders and Pershing Square Capital Management, L.P. and its controlled affiliates constitute a group.
Synthetic Long Position
group
Transfer
Transfer
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
further force or effect, except that the provisions of paragraphs 7 through 17 of this Agreement shall survive such termination.
 
 
 
 
 
If to the Company:
 
J. C. Penney Company, Inc.
6501 Legacy Drive
Plano, Texas  75024
Attn:     Janet Dhillon,
Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
Phone:   (972) 431-1916
6
 
 
 
 
With copies (which shall not constitute notice) to:
 
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
155 N. Wacker Drive
Chicago, IL  60606-1720
Attn:     Charles W. Mulaney, Jr.
Peter C. Krupp
Phone:   (312) 407-0700
 
If to the Stockholders:
 
Vornado Realty Trust
888 Seventh Avenue, 44th Floor
New York, NY  10019
Attention:  Alan Rice
Phone:     (212) 894-7000
 
With copies (which shall not constitute notice) to:
 
Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP
One Liberty Plaza
New York, NY  10006
Attn:     Daniel S. Sternberg
Phone:     (212) 225-2630
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
If the terms of this Agreement are in accordance with your understanding, please sign below, whereupon this Agreement shall constitute a binding agreement among us.
 
 
 
 
Acknowledged and agreed to as of
the date first written above:
 
VORNADO REALTY TRUST
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Amendment No. 2 to Stockholder Protection Rights Agreement (this ) is dated as of September [], 2011 (the ) and amends the Stockholder Protection Rights Agreement, dated as of October 15, 2010 and amended as of August 19, 2011 (the ), between J. C. Penney Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ) and Mellon Investor Services, LLC (operating with the service name BNY Mellon Shareowner Services), a New Jersey limited liability company, as Rights Agent (the ).  Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Rights Agreement.
Amendment
Effective Date
Rights Agreement
Company
Rights Agent
 
WHEREAS, on September [], 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company determined it is in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders to amend the Rights Agreement on the terms set forth herein;
 
WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 5.4 of the Rights Agreement, prior to the Separation Time, the Company and the Rights Agent may from time to time supplement or amend this Agreement without the approval of any holders of Rights;
 
WHEREAS, the Rights Agent is hereby directed to join in this Amendment; and
 
WHEREAS, an officer of the Company has delivered to the Rights Agent a certificate as to the compliance of this Amendment with the terms of the Rights Agreement.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the respective agreements set forth herein, the parties hereby agree as follows:
 
1.
 
.
Amendment of the Rights Agreement
 
(a)
  
Section 1.1 of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following sentence into the paragraph defining the term Acquiring Person immediately after the last sentence of such paragraph:
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the term Acquiring Person shall not include the Vornado Stockholders to the extent that such inclusion would result solely from the Vornado Stockholders becoming the Beneficial Owner of shares of Common Stock from and after effectiveness of, prior to the termination of and as expressly permitted by the Vornado Stockholder Agreement, and continuing to Beneficially Own such shares of Common Stock, so long as such Beneficial Ownership is permitted under the Vornado Stockholder Agreement.
 
(b)
  
Section 1.1 of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following paragraphs immediately following the paragraph defining the term Trust Agreement:
 
Exhibit A, Page 1
 
 
 
 
Vornado Stockholder shall mean the Stockholders, as such term is defined in the Vornado Stockholder Agreement.
 
Vornado Stockholder Agreement shall mean the letter agreement, dated September [], 2011, between the Company, on the one hand, and Vornado Realty Trust and its controlled affiliates, on the other hand, as amended, restated, supplemented, modified or otherwise changed from time to time.
 
2.
 
.  Except as and to the extent expressly modified by this Amendment, the Rights Agreement and the exhibits thereto shall remain in full force and effect in all respects without any modification.  This Amendment shall be deemed an amendment to the Rights Agreement and shall become effective on the Effective Date.  In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between this Amendment and the Rights Agreement and the exhibits thereto, the provisions of this Amendment shall govern.
No Other Amendment; Effect of Amendment
 
3.
 
.  This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts (including by facsimile and .pdf) and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
4.
 
.  If any term, covenant, restriction or provision hereof or the application thereof to any circumstance shall, in any jurisdiction and to any extent, be invalid or unenforceable, such term, covenant, restriction or provision shall be ineffective as to such jurisdiction to the extent of such invalidity or unenforceability without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining terms, covenants, restrictions and provisions hereof or the application of such term, covenant, restriction or provision to circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid or unenforceable; , , that if any such excluded term, covenant, restriction or provision shall adversely affect the rights, immunities, duties or obligations of the Rights Agent, the Rights Agent shall be entitled to resign immediately.
Severability
provided
however
 
5.
 
.  Descriptive headings appear herein for convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of the provisions hereof.
Descriptive Headings
 
6.
 
.  Each of the parties to this Amendment shall cooperate and take such action as may be reasonably requested by the other party in order to carry out the provisions and purposes of this Amendment, the Rights Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereunder and thereunder.
Further Assurances
 
7.
 
.  This Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of Delaware and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of such State applicable to contracts to be made and performed entirely within such State; provided, however, that all provisions regarding the rights, duties, obligations and liabilities of the Rights Agent shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such State.
Governing Law
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Amendment No. 2 to Stockholder Protection Rights Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit A, Page 3


