FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20110812083735.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 431-1000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
 
 
 
 
 
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (the Company) issued an earnings press release on August 12, 2011 announcing its second quarter 2011 results of operations and financial condition. This information is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The schedules to the press release provide certain information regarding adjusted operating income, adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per share-diluted, and free cash flow, all of which may be considered non-GAAP financial measures under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. A reconciliation of each such non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is included with the release.
We define (i) adjusted operating income as operating income excluding the non-cash impact of the qualified pension plan and (ii) adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share-diluted as net income and earnings per share-diluted, respectively, excluding the after-tax non-cash impact of the qualified pension plan.  We believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income, adjusted net income, and adjusted earnings per share-diluted, which our management relies on to assess our operating results, is useful in order to better understand the operating performance of our core business, provide enhanced visibility into our selling, general and administrative expense structure and to facilitate the comparison of our results to the results of our peer companies.  Unlike our normal operating expenses, pension expense is determined using numerous complex assumptions about changes in pension assets and liabilities that are subject to factors that are beyond our control, such as market volatility. We believe it is useful to investors to understand the impact of the non-cash qualified pension expense on our results of operations, which provides more meaningful year-over-year comparisons.
We define free cash flow as cash flows from operating activities less capital expenditures and dividends paid, plus discretionary pension contribution and proceeds from the sale of assets.  We believe that free cash flow is a relevant indicator of our ability to repay maturing debt, both on and off-balance sheet, revise our dividend policy or fund other uses of capital that we believe will enhance stockholder value. Free cash flow is limited and does not represent remaining cash flows available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt maturities, pay-down of off-balance sheet pension debt, and other obligations or payments made for business acquisitions.
We believe it is important to view each of these non-GAAP financial measures in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, the GAAP measures of operating income, net income, earnings per share-diluted, and cash flows from operating activities, respectively.
Item 9.01       Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)       
        
Exhibit 99.1
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. News Release issued August 12, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
                                                 
      
Date:  August 12, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
                             
Exhibit Number
Description
99.1                                    J. C. Penney Company, Inc. News Release issued August 12, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Second Quarter Highlights
-- J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE: JCP) today reported net income of $14 million or $0.07 per share for the second quarter ended July 30, 2011, including previously announced restructuring charges.  The Companys exclusive and private brands such as Liz Claiborne, Modern Bride, Arizona and St. Johns Bay, as well as the expansion of Sephora inside jcpenney attracted new customers to jcpenney, resulting in 1.5 percent comparable store sales growth for the second quarter and 2.7 percent same store sales growth for the first half of the year.
PLANO, Texas, Aug. 12, 2011
The challenging economy continues to impact the moderate consumer, said Myron E. (Mike) Ullman, III, chairman and chief executive officer.  Nevertheless, we have made significant strides in implementing our merchandising growth initiatives, with sales gains across our apparel and accessories businesses both in stores and on jcp.com.  Through our focus on building attractions, improving sales productivity in stores, managing expenses and streamlining operations, we are committed to delivering on the Companys long-term earnings targets.
Second Quarter Performance
Comparable store sales for the second quarter rose 1.5 percent.  Total sales decreased 0.8 percent, reflecting the Companys exit from its catalog business.  Internet sales through jcp.com were $326 million in the second quarter, increasing 2.8 percent over last year.  Overall, the strongest merchandise results in the period were in womens apparel and accessories and fine jewelry.  Geographically, the best performance was in the southwest region of the country.  
When compared to the peak margins achieved in last years second quarter, gross margin decreased approximately 110 basis points to 38.3 percent of sales reflecting
the softer than anticipated selling environment early in the quarter and the resulting higher level of promotional
 
 
 
 
 
Gross margin decreased $55 million, or approximately 3.5 percent, compared to last years second quarter.  
activity.
Overall, SG&A expenses were tightly controlled during the quarter and decreased $32 million, or 2.5 percent, versus last year as the Companys ongoing efforts to aggressively manage expenses and optimize operations delivered savings during the quarter.  As a percent of sales, SG&A expenses decreased 60 basis points to 31.8 percent. The non-cash qualified pension plan expense was $21 million compared to $55 million in the same period last year.  Total operating expenses were 36.2 percent of sales for the quarter.  Operating income for the quarter was $81 million or 2.1 percent of sales.  
Financial Condition
The Company ended the second quarter with approximately $1.6 billion in cash and short-term investments on its balance sheet, even after the completion of its $900 million share repurchase program early in the second quarter.  Interest expense for the quarter was the same as last year at $57 million.  
The Company also noted that it is comfortable with the level and content of its inventory, as it is in line with expected sales trends, and up approximately 2.3% over last year.
Outlook
The Companys 2011 third quarter guidance is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
to associates this month.  The Company anticipates it will disclose the number of associates who elect to participate in the program as well as the operational efficiencies resulting from the program as part of the Companys third quarter earnings release.  
 
Conference Call/Webcast Details
Management will host a live conference call and real-time webcast today, Aug. 12, 2011, beginning at 9:30 a.m. ET.  Access to the conference call is open to the press and general public in a listen-only mode.  To access the conference call, please dial (877) 407-0778, or (201) 689-8565 for international callers, and reference the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.  The telephone playback will be available for two days beginning approximately two hours after the conclusion of the call by dialing (877) 660-6853, account code 286, and conference ID number   The live webcast may be accessed via the Companys Investor Relations page at , or on streetevents.com (for subscribers) or investorcalendar.com.  Replays of the webcast will be available for up to 90 days after the event.
376851.
jcpenney.net
 
For further information, contact:
Investor Relations
Kristin Hays and Angelika Torres; (972) 431-5500
jcpinvestorrelations@jcpenney.com
Media Relations
Darcie Brossart and Rebecca Winter; (972) 431-3400
  
jcpcorpcomm@jcpenney.com
Corporate Website
www.jcpenney.net
About J. C. Penney Company, Inc.
J. C. Penney Company, Inc., one of America's leading retailers, operates over 1,100 jcpenney department stores throughout the United States and Puerto Rico, as well as one of the largest apparel and home furnishing sites on the Internet, jcp.com. Serving more than half of Americas families each year, the jcpenney brand offers a wide array of private, exclusive and national brands which reflect the Companys vision to be Americas shopping destination for discovering great styles at compelling prices. Traded as JCP on the New York Stock Exchange, the $17.8 billion retailer is transforming its organization to support its Long Range Plan strategies to build a sustainable, profitable enterprise that serves its customers, engages its associates and rewards its shareholders.  For more information, visit .
www.jcpenney.net
 
This release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements, which reflect the Company's current views of future events and financial performance, involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause the Company's actual results to be materially
 
 
 
 
 
 
different from planned or expected results. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions, including inflation, recession, unemployment levels, consumer spending patterns, credit availability and debt levels, changes in store traffic trends, the cost of goods, trade restrictions, changes in tariff, freight and shipping rates, changes in the cost of fuel and other energy and transportation costs, increases in wage and benefit costs, competition and retail industry consolidations, interest rate fluctuations, dollar and other currency valuations, the impact of weather conditions, risks associated with war, an act of terrorism or pandemic, and a systems failure and/or security breach that results in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer, employee or Company information.  Please refer to the Company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties. Investors should take such risks into account when making investment decisions. We do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements as of any future date.
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4


