FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20120227172646.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 431-1000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (the Company) issued an earnings press release on February 24, 2012 announcing its 2011 fourth quarter and full-year results of operations and financial condition. This information is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The press release and accompanying schedules provide certain information regarding (i) adjusted operating income excluding restructuring and management transition charges, (ii) adjusted operating income, (iii) adjusted income from continuing operations excluding restructuring and management transition charges, (iv) adjusted income from continuing operations, (v) adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations excluding restructuring and management transition charges, (vi) adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations and (vii) free cash flow, all of which may be considered non-GAAP financial measures under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. A reconciliation of each such non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is included with the release.
We define (i) adjusted operating income excluding restructuring and management transition charges as operating (loss)/income excluding the impact of restructuring and management transition charges, (ii) adjusted operating income as operating (loss)/income excluding the impact of restructuring and management transition charges and the non-cash impact of the qualified pension plan expense, (iii) adjusted income from continuing operations excluding restructuring and management transition charges as (loss)/income from continuing operations excluding the impact of after-tax restructuring and management transition charges, (iv) adjusted income from continuing operations as (loss)/income from continuing operations excluding the impact of after-tax restructuring and management transition charges and the after-tax non-cash impact of the qualified pension plan expense, (v) adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations excluding restructuring and management transition charges as (loss)/earnings per share from continuing operations excluding the impact of after-tax restructuring and management transition charges and (vi) adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations as (loss)/earnings per share from continuing operations excluding the impact of after-tax restructuring and management transition charges and the after-tax non-cash impact of the qualified pension plan expense.  We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures, which our management relies on to assess our operating results, are useful in order to better understand the operating performance of our core business, provide enhanced visibility into our selling, general and administrative expense structure and to facilitate the comparison of our results to the results of our peer companies. 
We define free cash flow as cash flows from operating activities excluding discretionary cash contributions to the Companys primary pension plan, less capital expenditures and dividends paid, plus proceeds from the sale of assets.  Adjustments to exclude discretionary pension plan contributions are more indicative of the Companys ability to generate cash flows from operating activities.  We believe discretionary pension plan contributions are more reflective of financing transactions to pay-down off-balance sheet debt relating to the pension liability.  In addition, we believe that free cash flow is a relevant indicator of our ability to repay maturing debt, both on and off-balance sheet, revise our dividend policy or fund other uses of capital that we believe will enhance stockholder value. Free cash flow is limited and does not represent remaining cash flows available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt maturities, pay-down of off-balance sheet pension debt, and other obligations or payments made for business acquisitions.
 
 
We believe it is important to view each of these non-GAAP financial measures in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, the GAAP measures of operating (loss)/income, (loss)/income from continuing operations, (loss)/earnings per share from continuing operations, and cash flows from operating activities, respectively.
 
Effective February 21, 2012, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee approved the 2012 base salary, target incentive opportunity percentage under the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. 2011 Management Incentive Compensation Program and equity award value for Janet Dhillon, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary as follows: base salary of $700,000, target incentive opportunity of 75% of base salary and equity award under the Companys 2009 Long-Term Incentive Program having a market value of $2,000,000 on the date of grant.  The compensation arrangements for the Companys other executive officers remain unchanged.
(e)
 
 
 Effective February 22, 2012, the Companys Board of Directors amended Article III, Section 2 of the Companys Bylaws to eliminate the mandatory retirement age for directors. A copy of the Companys Bylaws, as amended, is filed herewith as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
By:
/s/ Janet Dhillon
      Janet Dhillon
Date:  February 27, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
                            
Exhibit Number
Description
  3.1                                  J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Bylaws, as amended to February 22, 2012
99.1                                  J. C. Penney Company, Inc. News Release issued February 24, 2012
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1.   .  The registered office of J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (hereinafter called the Company) in the State of Delaware shall be at 1209 Orange Street, City of Wilmington, County of New Castle.  The name of the registered agent in charge thereof is The Corporation Trust Company.
Registered Office
SECTION 2.   .  The Company may also have an office or offices at such other place or places either within or without the State of Delaware as from time to time the Board of Directors may determine or the business of the Company may require.
Other Offices
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
ARTICLE II
MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS
 
SECTION 1.   .  The annual meeting of stockholders for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as may come before the meeting shall be held at such place and time as shall be fixed by the Board of Directors and specified in the notice of the meeting, on the third Tuesday in May in each year, or on such other day as shall be fixed by the Board of Directors and specified in the notice of the meeting.  If the election of directors shall not be held on the day designated herein or the day fixed by the Board, as the case may be, for any annual meeting, or on the day of any adjourned session thereof, the Board of Directors shall cause the election to be held at a special meeting as soon thereafter as convenient. At such special meeting, the stockholders may elect the directors and transact other business with the same force and effect as at an annual meeting duly called and held.
Annual Meetings
SECTION 2.   .  Any action required or permitted to be taken by the holders of the Common Stock of the Company must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of such holders and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such holders.  A special meeting of stockholders for any purpose or purposes, unless otherwise prescribed by the laws of the State of Delaware or by the certificate of incorporation, may be called at any time only by the Board of Directors pursuant
Special Meetings
to a resolution approved by a majority of the Board of Directors. Special meetings of stockholders may be held at such place, on
 
 
 
 
 
3
such date, and at such time as shall be designated by resolution of the Board of Directors.
SECTION 3.    .  Except as otherwise required by the laws of the State of Delaware or the certificate of incorporation, notice of each annual or special meeting of stockholders shall be given not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the day on which the meeting is to be held to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting by delivering a written notice thereof to him or her personally, or by depositing a copy of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to him or her at his or her address as it appears on the records of the Company, or by transmitting the notice thereof to him or her at such address by telegram, cable, radiogram, telephone facsimile, or other appropriate written communication.  Except when expressly required by the laws of the State of Delaware, no publication of any notice of a meeting of stockholders shall be required.  Every such notice shall state the place, date, and time of the meeting, and in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes thereof.  Notice of any adjourned session of a meeting of stockholders shall not be required to be given if the place, date, and time thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken.  If, however, the adjournment is for more than 30 days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
Notice of Meetings
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
SECTION 4.   .  It shall be the duty of the officer who shall have charge of the stock ledger of the Company to prepare and make, at least 10 days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder.  Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least 10 days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held.  The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected, for any purpose germane to the meeting, by any stockholder who is present.  The stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine such list or to vote in person or by proxy at the meeting.
List of Stockholders
SECTION 5.  .  At each meeting of stockholders, the holders of a majority of the issued and outstanding shares of stock of the Company entitled to vote at the meeting, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.  In the absence of a quorum at any meeting, or any adjourned session thereof, the stockholders of the Company present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to v
Quorum
ote, by majority vote, or in the absence of all the stockholders,
 
 
 
 
 
5
any officer entitled to preside or act as secretary at the meeting, may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall be present.  At any such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
SECTION 6.  .  At each meeting of stockholders, the Chairman of the Board or in his or her absence a Vice Chairman of the Board or in his or her absence a chairman chosen by the vote of a majority in interest of the stockholders present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote thereat, shall act as chairman.  The Secretary or in his or her absence an Assistant Secretary or in the absence of the Secretary and all Assistant Secretaries a person whom the chairman of the meeting shall appoint shall act as secretary of the meeting and keep a record of the proceedings thereof.  The date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at the meeting by the person presiding over the meeting. The Board of Directors may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meeting of stockholders as it shall deem necessary, appropriate, or convenient.  Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the chairman of any meeting of stockholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations, and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairman, are necessary, appropriate, or
Organization and Conduct of Meeting
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
convenient for the proper conduct of the meeting.  Such rules, regulations, or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the chairman of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting, (ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present, (iii) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the Company, their duly authorized and constituted proxies, or such other persons as the chairman of the meeting shall determine, (iv) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof, and (v) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants.  Unless, and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the chairman of the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.
SECTION 7.  .  At a meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting.  To be properly brought before a meeting, business must be (i) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (ii) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (iii) in the case of an annual meeting of stockholders, otherwise properly requested to be brought before the meeting by a stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting and otherwise a proper subject to be brought before such
Notification of Stockholder Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
7
meeting.  For business to be properly requested to be brought before an annual meeting of stockholders, any stockholder who desires to bring any matter (other than the election of directors, which is provided for in Section 15 of Article III of these Bylaws) before such meeting and who is entitled to vote on such matter must give timely written notice of such stockholder's desire to bring such matter before the meeting, either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary of the Company not later than 90 days in advance of such meeting.  A stockholder's notice to the Secretary in this regard shall set forth: (1) the name and address of the stockholder proposing such business, (2) a representation that such stockholder is a record owner of stock of the Company entitled to vote at the meeting and intends to appear in person at the meeting to present the described business, (3) a brief description of the
business desired to be brought before the meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, and (4) any material interest of the stockholder in such business.  Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, no business may be conducted at a meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Article II of these Bylaws.  The chairman of a meeting may, if the facts warrant, or if not in accordance with applicable law, determine and declare to the meeting that business proposed to be brought before a meeting was not a proper subject therefor or was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the provisions of this Section 7, and if he should so determine, he may so declare to the meeting, and any such
 
 
 
 
 
8
business not a proper subject matter or not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
SECTION 8.  .  Except as otherwise provided in the laws of the State of Delaware or the certificate of incorporation, at every meeting of stockholders, each stockholder of the Company shall be entitled to one vote at the meeting in person or by proxy for each share of stock having voting rights registered in his or her name on the books of the Company on the date fixed pursuant to Section 3 of Article VII of these Bylaws as the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting.  Shares of its own stock belonging to the Company shall not be voted directly or indirectly (except for shares of stock held by the Company in a fiduciary capacity).  The vote of any stockholder entitled thereto may be cast in person or by his or her proxy appointed by an instrument in writing, or by other means of electronic transmission, to the full extent permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware; provided, however, that no proxy shall be voted after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period.  
Voting; Proxies; Ballots
At all meetings of stockholders, each question (except as otherwise provided by the certificate of incorporation, these Bylaws or the rules and regulations of any stock exchange applicable to the Company, or pursuant to any regulation applicable to the Company and its securities) shall be decided by the affirmative vote of the majority of shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the
 
 
 
 
9
subject matter. In any non-contested election of directors, each director shall be elected by the affirmative vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to that directors election.  Any director nominee who is an incumbent director and is not re-elected shall, promptly following the receipt of the final report from the independent inspectors of election, tender his or her resignation, and the Board of Directors (excluding the director who tenders his or her resignation pursuant to this Section 8) shall decide whether to accept or refuse the resignation promptly.  Absent a compelling reason as determined by the other directors in the exercise of their business judgment for the director to remain on the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors shall accept the resignation.  In a contested election (as defined in Section II.H of the Companys Corporate Governance Guidelines), directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the stockholder meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors and shall not be required to tender any such resignation.  If the Board of Directors accepts a director's resignation pursuant to this Section 8, or if a nominee for director is not elected and the nominee is not an incumbent director, then the Board of Directors may fill the resulting vacancy pursuant to the provisions of Section 13 of Article III of these Bylaws, or may decrease the size of the Board of Directors pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 of Article III of these Bylaws.  All elections of directors and all votes on matters set forth in the notice of 
 
 
 
 
10
meeting shall be by written ballot stating the number of shares voted, but except as otherwise provided in the laws of the State of Delaware, the vote on any other matter need not be by ballot unless directed by the chairman of the meeting.  On a vote by ballot, each ballot shall be signed by the stockholder voting, or by his or her proxy, if there be such proxy, and shall state the number of shares voted.
SECTION 9.  .  The Company shall, in advance of any meeting of stockholders, appoint one or more inspectors of election, who may be employees of the Company, to act at the meeting or any adjournment thereof and to make a written report thereof.  The Company may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act.  In the event that no inspector so appointed or designated is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting.  Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath to execute faithfully the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability.
Inspectors of Election
The inspector or inspectors so appointed or designated shall(i) ascertain the number of shares of stock of the Company outstanding and the voting power of each such share, (ii) determine the shares of stock of the Company represented at the meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots, (iii) count all votes and ballots, (iv) determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any 
 
 
 
 
11
determination by the inspectors, and (v) certify their determination of the number of shares of stock of the Company represented at the meeting and such inspectors' count of all votes and ballots.  Such certification and report shall specify such other information as may be required by law.  In determining the validity and counting of proxies and ballots cast at any meeting of stockholders of the Company, the inspectors may consider such information as is permitted by applicable law.  No person who is a candidate for an office at an election may serve as an inspector at such election.
 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
  SECTION 1.     .  The business, property, and affairs of the Company shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors.  In addition to the powers and authorities expressly conferred upon the Board of Directors by the certificate of incorporation and these Bylaws, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Company and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by the laws of the State of Delaware, the certificate of incorporation, or these Bylaws directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
General Powers
SECTION 2.   
Eligibility.
 No person may serve as a director unless he or she is a stockholder of the Company.
 
 
 
 
12
 
SECTION 3.   .  Except as otherwise provided for or fixed by or pursuant to the provisions of Article Fourth of the certificate of incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, the number of directors of the Company which shall constitute the whole Board of Directors shall be such number, not less than three, as from time to time shall be fixed by the Board of Directors.  Subject to the provisions of this Section 3 below, until the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders, when the following classification shall cease, the directors, other than those who may be elected pursuant to the aforesaid provisions of said Article Fourth, shall be classified by the Board of Directors, with respect to the duration of the term for which they severally hold office, into three classes as nearly equal in number as possible.  Such classes shall originally consist of a first class of four directors who shall be elected at the annual meeting of stockholders held in 1985 for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 1986, and election and qualification of their respective successors; a second class of five directors who shall be elected at the annual meeting of stockholders held in 1985 for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 1987, and election and  qualification of their respective successors; and a third class of five directors who shall be elected at the annual meeting of stockholders held in 1985 for a term expiring at the annual
Number and Classification of Directors
 
 
 
 
13
meeting of stockholders to be held in 1988, and election and qualification of their respective successors.  At each annual meeting of stockholders, until the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders, the successors of the class of directors whose term expires at that meeting shall be elected for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders held in the third year following the year of election of such directors and election and qualification of their respective successors.  Subject to the provisions of this Section 3 below, until the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders, when the classification of the Board of Directors shall cease, the Board of Directors shall increase or decrease the number of directors in one or more classes as may be appropriate whenever it increases or decreases the number of directors pursuant to this Section 3, in order to ensure that the three classes shall be as nearly equal in number as possible.  Directors elected at or after the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2007 shall hold office until the first annual meeting of stockholders following their election and until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified or until the directors prior death, resignation or removal.
 
SECTION 4.  .
Quorum and Manner of Acting
 
 
 
 
 
14
incorporation, or these Bylaws, the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be required for the taking of any action by the Board of Directors. In the absence of a quorum at any meeting of the Board, the meeting need not be held, or a majority of the directors present thereat or if no director be present, the Secretary, may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall be present. Notice of any adjourned meeting need not be given. At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called. Members of the Board of Directors may participate in a meeting of the Board by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in the meeting by such means shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
 
 
 
 
 
 
15
following the later of the date of its adoption and the date of its last such amendment.
 
(ii)
 
Paragraph (i) of this Section 4(b) shall not apply to any Stockholder Rights Plan ratified by the stockholders.
(iii)
 
Stockholder Rights Plan refers in this Section 4(b) to any stockholder rights plan, rights agreement or any other form of poison pill which is designed to or has the effect of making an acquisition of large holdings of the Companys shares of stock more difficult or expensive.
 
Nothing in this Bylaw should be construed to permit or validate any decision by the Board of Directors to adopt or amend a Stockholder Rights Plan that would be otherwise prohibited or invalid.
(
iv)
.   .  The Board of Directors may hold meetings and have an office or offices at such place or places within or without the State of Delaware as the Board may from time to time determine, and in the case of meetings, as shall be specified or fixed in the respective notices or waivers of notice thereof, except where other provision is made in the laws of the State of Delaware, the of incorporation, or these Bylaws.
SECTION 5
Offices; Places of Meetings
certificate
   
SECTION 6.  .  The Board of Directors shall meet for the purpose of organization, the election of officers, and the
Annual Meeting
 
 
 
 
 
16
transaction of other business, at the time of each annual election of directors.  Such meeting may be held prior to the stockholders' meeting, if deemed necessary and appropriate, and if so held, would be held subject to the election of directors at the upcoming stockholders' meeting; provided, however, that no individual not then a director may act as a director prior to his or her election at the upcoming stockholders' meeting.  Such meeting shall be called and held at the place and time specified in the notice or waiver and held at the place and time specified in the notice or waiver of notice thereof as in the case of a special meeting of the Board of Directors.
SECTION 7.  .  Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held as the Board of Directors shall determine, at such times and places as shall from time to time be determined by the Board, except that in May, the regular meeting shall be held immediately following the adjournment of the annual meeting of the Board.  Notice of regular meetings need not be given.
Regular Meetings
SECTION 8.  .  Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held whenever called by the Chairman of the Board or a Vice Chairman of the Board or by any two of the directors.  Notice of each such meeting shall be mailed to each director, addressed to such director at his or her residence or usual place of business, at least two days before the day on which the meeting is to be held, or shall be sent to such director at his or her residence or such place of business by telegram, cable,
Special Meetings; Notice
 
 
 
 
17
radiogram, telephone facsimile, or other appropriate written communication, or delivered personally or by telephone, not later than the day before the day on which the meeting is to be held.  Each such notice shall state the time and place of the meeting but need not state the purposes thereof except as otherwise herein expressly provided.
SECTION 9.  .  At each meeting of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or in his or her absence, a Vice Chairman of the Board or in his or her absence, a director chosen by a majority of the directors present, shall act as chairman.  The Secretary or in his or her absence, an Assistant Secretary or in the absence of the Secretary and all Assistant Secretaries, a person whom the chairman of the meeting shall appoint, shall act as secretary of the meeting and keep a record of the proceedings thereof.
Organization
SECTION 10. .  At all meetings of the Board of Directors, business shall be transacted in the order determined by the Board.
Order of Business
SECTION 11. .  Any director may resign at any time by giving written notice of his or her resignation to the Board of Directors or to the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, or the Secretary.  Such resignation shall take effect at t
Resignation
he date of receipt of the notice or at any later time specified therein; and unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
 
 
 
 
18
SECTION 12.  Intentionally Omitted.
 
SECTION 13.  .  Any vacancy in the Board of Directors caused by death, resignation, removal, disqualification, increase in the number of directors, or any other cause, shall be filled by a majority vote of the remaining directors, even though less than a quorum, or by the stockholders at a special meeting duly called and held for the purpose or at an annual meeting, and each director so elected shall hold office until the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders following such directors election and until such directors successor shall have been elected and qualified, including in circumstances where such directors predecessor was elected to a longer term.
Vacancies
SECTION 14.  .  Directors and members of any committee may receive such fixed sum per meeting attended, or such annual sum or sums, and such reimbursement for expenses of attendance at meetings, as may be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors.  Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the
Remuneration
Company in any other capacity and receiving proper compensation therefor.
 
SECTION 15.   .  Nominations for the election of directors may be made by the Board of Directors or by any stockholder entitled to vote for the election of directors.  Any stockholder entitled to vote for the election of directors at
Notification of Nominations
 
 
 
 
19
 
a meeting may nominate persons for election as directors only if written notice of such stockholder's intent to make such nomination is given, either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary of the Company, not later than (i) with respect to an election to be held at an annual meeting of stockholders, 90 days in advance of such meeting, and (ii) with respect to an election to be held at a special meeting of stockholders for the election of directors, the close of business on the seventh day following the date on which notice of such meeting is first given to stockholders.  Each such notice shall set forth:  (a) the name and address of the stockholder who intends to make the nomination and of the person or persons to be nominated, (b) a representation that such stockholder is a holder
of record of stock of the Company entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice, (c) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by such stockholder, (d) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by such stockholder as would have been required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission had each nominee been nominated, or intended to be nominated by the Board of Directors, and (e) the consent of each nominee to serve as a director of the Company if so elected.  The chairman of the meeting may refuse to acknowledge the nomination
 
 
 
 
20
 of any person not made in compliance with the foregoing procedures.
SECTION 16.  .  Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or such committee.
Action of the Board of Directors by Consent
SECTION 1.  .  The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate directors of the Company, in such number as the Board shall see fit, but not less than two, as an Executive Committee which shall have and may exercise, during intervals between meetings of the Board, the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Company, and may authorize the seal of the Company to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but the Executive Committee shall not have the power or authority in reference to filling vacancies in its membership, amending the certificate of incorporation (except that the Executive Committee (or any committee designated pursuant to Section 6 of this Article IV) may, to the full extent permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware, make determinations with respect to the issuance of stock of the Company), adopting an
Executive Committee
 
 
 
 
 
21
agreement of merger or consolidation, recommending to the stockholders the sale, lease, or exchange of all or substantially all the Company's property and assets, recommending to the stockholders a dissolution of the Company or a revocation of a dissolution, amending these Bylaws, or declaring a dividend.  The Executive Committee (or any committee designated pursuant to Section 6 of this Article IV) shall have the power or authority to authorize the issuance of stock of the Company.  The Board of Directors shall designate one of the members of the Executive Committee to be the Chairman of the Committee.  Each member of the E
xecutive Committee shall continue to act as such only so long as he or she shall be a director of the Company and only during the pleasure of a majority of the whole Board of Directors.
SECTION 2.  .  Regular meetings of the Executive Committee, of which no notice shall be necessary, shall be held on such days and at such places, within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be fixed by resolution adopted by a majority of, and communicated to all, the members of the Executive Committee.  Special meetings of the Committee may be called at the request of any member.  Notice of each special meeting of the Committee shall be mailed to each member thereof, addressed to such member at his or her residence or usual place of business, at least two days before the day on which the meeting is to be held, or shall be sent to such member at his or her residence or such place of business by telegram, cable, radiogram, telephone facsimile, or other appropriate written communication, or delivered personally or by telephone, not later than the day
Meetings
 
 
 
 
22
before the day on which the meeting is to be held.  Each such notice shall state the time and place of the meeting but need not state the purposes thereof except as otherwise herein expressly provided.  Subject to the provisions of this Article IV, the Executive Committee, by resolution of a majority of all its members, shall fix its own rules of procedure.  The Executive Committee shall keep a record of its proceedings and report them to the Board of Directors at the next regular meeting thereof after such proceedings shall have been taken.
 
SECTION 3.  .  Not less than a majority of the members of the Executive Committee then in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the act of a majority of those present at a meeting thereof at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Executive Committee.  The directors comprising the Committee shall act only as a committee, and such directors, individually, shall have no power as such.  Members of the Executive Committee, or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may participate in a meeting of such committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in the meeting by such means shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
Quorum and Manner of Acting
SECTION 4.   .  The Board of Directors, by vote of a majority of the whole Board, shall have power to fill any vacancy
Vacancies
 
 
 
 
 
23
in the Executive Committee due to death, resignation, removal, disqualification, or any other cause.
SECTION 5.   .  Any director may resign from the Executive Committee at any time by giving written notice of his or her resignation to the Board of Directors or to the Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman of the Board, or the Secretary.  Such resignation shall take effect at the date of receipt of the notice or at any later time specified therein; and unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignation
 
SECTION 6.   .  The Board of Directors may, by resolution or resolutions passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate one or more other committees, each such committee to consist of one or more directors of the Company, which shall have and may exercise such powers and authority (subject to the limitations specified in Section 1 of this Article IV) as the Board of Directors may determine and specify in such resolution or resolutions, such committee or committees to have such name or names as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.  A majority of all the members of any such committee may fix its rules of procedure, determine its actions, and fix the time and place (whether within or without the State of Delaware) of its meetings and specify what notice thereof, if any, shall be given, unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise by resolution
Other Committees
 
 
 
 
 
24
provide.  The Board of Directors shall have the power, either with or without cause, at any time, to change the members of any such committee, to fill vacancies, and to discharge any such committee.
OFFICERS
  SECTION 1.   .  
Principal Officers
The principal offices of the Company shall be a Chairman of the Board, who shall be a member of the Board of Directors, and such officers as the Board shall elect in accordance with these Bylaws. The principal officers of the Company shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be provided by these Bylaws or determined from time to time by the Board. In addition, there may be such other officers, agents,
and employees of the Company as may be appointed in accordance with Section 3 of this Article V. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
SECTION 2.   .  The officers of the Company, except such officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 of this Article V, shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors.  Each officer, except such officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 of this Article V, shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified, or until his or her earlier death, resignation, removal, or disqualification.
Election and Term of Office
 
 
 
 
25
SECTION 3.   .  In addition to the principal officers enumerated in Section 1 of this Article V, the Company may have such other officers, agents, and employees as the Board of Directors may deem necessary, each of whom shall hold office for such period, have such authority, and perform such duties as the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or a Vice Chairman of the Board may from time to time determine.  The Board of Directors may delegate to any principal officer the power to appoint or remove any such other officers, agents, or employees.
Appointed Officers
SECTION 4.    .  Any officer may be removed, either with or without cause, by the vote of a majority of the whole Board of Directors at a special meeting called for the purpose or except in
Removal
case of any officer elected by the Board of Directors, by any officer upon whom the power of removal may be conferred by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 5.    .  Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice of his or her resignation to the Board of Directors or to the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, or the Secretary.  Such resignation shall take effect at the date of receipt of the notice or at any later time specified therein; and unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignation
SECTION 6.    .  A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal, disqualification, or any other cause shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term in the
Vacancies
 
 
 
 
 
26
manner prescribed in these Bylaws for regular election or appointment to such office.
SECTION 7.    .  The Chairman of the Board may be the chief executive officer of the Company.  The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the stockholders at which he or she is present.  The Chairman of the Board shall have the general supervision of the affairs of the Company, and perform all such duties as are incident to the office or as are properly required of him or her by the Board of Directors.  The Chairman of the Board shall have authority to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name and on behalf of the Company, when authorized by the Board of Directors, except in cases where the
Chairman of the Board
signing and execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board of Directors or these Bylaws to some other officer, agent, or employee of the Company.
SECTION 8.   .  The Board of Directors may establish the office of Vice Chairman of the Board. In the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Chairman of the Board.  A Vice Chairman of the Board shall have authority to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name and on behalf of the Company, when authorized by the Board of Directors, except in cases where the signing and execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board of Directors or these Bylaws to some other officer,
Vice Chairmen of the Board
 
 
 
 
 
27
agent, or employee of the Company.  In addition, a Vice Chairman of the Board shall have such further powers and perform such further duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board or as may be prescribed by these Bylaws.
SECTION 9.     The Board of Directors may establish the office of President of a division, region, or other unit, function, or activity of the Company.  A President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or a Vice Chairman of the Board.
Presidents.
SECTION 10.  .  The Board of Directors may establish several classifications of Vice Presidents, such as
Vice Presidents
Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents, Regional Vice Presidents, and Divisional Vice Presidents.  Each Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as shall, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or a Vice Chairman of the Board.
SECTION 11.   .  The Treasurer shall have charge and custody of, and be responsible for, all funds and securities of the Company, and shall deposit or cause to be deposited all such funds in the name of the Company in such banks, trust companies, and other depositories as shall be selected in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws; shall render to the Board of Directors, whenever the Board may require him or her so to do, a report of all his or her transactions as Treasurer;
The Treasurer
 
 
 
 
28
 and in general, shall perform all duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or a Vice Chairman of the Board.
SECTION 12.   .  The Secretary shall record or cause to be recorded in books kept for the purpose the proceedings of the meetings of the stockholders, the Board of Directors, and all committees, if any; shall see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws and as required by law; shall be custodian of the seal of the Company; and in general, shall perform all duties incident to the office of Secretary and such other duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or a Vice Chairman of the Board.
The Secretary
 
SECTION 13.   .  The Controller shall have charge of the books and records of account of the Company; shall keep or cause to be kept, and shall be responsible for the keeping of, correct and adequate records of the assets, liabilities, business, and transactions of the Company; shall at all reasonable times exhibit his or her books and records of account to any director of the Company upon application at the office of the Company where such books and records are kept; shall be responsible for the preparation and filing of all reports and returns relating to or based upon the books and records of the Company kept by him or her or under his or her direction; and in general, shall perform all duties incident to the office of Controller and such other duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board
The Controller
 
 
 
 
 
29
of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or a Vice Chairman of the Board.
 
ARTICLE VI
CONTRACTS, LOANS, CHECKS, DRAFTS, BANK ACCOUNTS, ETC.
  SECTION 1.   .  The Board of Directors, except as otherwise provided in these Bylaws, may authorize any officer or officers or other person or persons to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name and on behalf of the Company, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances, and unless so authorized by the Board of Directors or by the provisions of these Bylaws, no officer or other person shall have any power or authority to bind the Company by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable peculiarly for any purpose or to any amount.
Execution of Contracts
 
SECTION 2.    .  No loan shall be contracted on behalf of the Company, and no negotiable papers shall be issued in its name, except by such officer or officers or other person or persons as may be designated by the Board of Directors from time to time.  If and to the extent authorized by the Board of Directors, the power to contract loans or issue negotiable papers may be delegated by any such officer or officers or other person or persons.
Loans
SECTION 3.      All checks, drafts, bills of exchange, and other orders for the payment of money, letters of credit, acceptances, obligations, notes, and other evidences of indebtedness, bills of lading, warehouse receipts, and insurance certificates of the Company shall be signed or endorsed by such
Checks, Drafts, etc.
 
 
 
 
 
30
officer or officers or other person or persons as may be designated by the Board of Directors from time to time.  If and to the extent authorized by the Board of Directors, the power to sign or endorse any such instrument may be delegated by any such officer or officers or other person or persons.
SECTION 4.    .  The Board of Directors may from time to time authorize the opening and maintenance of general and special bank and custodial accounts with such banks, trust companies, and other depositories as it may select.  Rules, regulations, and agreements applicable to such accounts may be made, and changed from time to time, by the Board of Directors, including, but without limitation, rules, regulations, and agreements with respect to the use of facsimile and printed signatures.  Any of such powers of the Board of Directors with
Bank Accounts
respect to bank and custodial accounts may be delegated by the Board of Directors to any officer or officers or other person or persons as may be designated by the Board of Directors, and if and to the extent authorized by the Board of Directors, any such power may be further delegated by any such officer or officers or other person or persons.
 
BOOKS AND RECORDS
 SECTION 1.  .  The books and records of the Company may be kept at such place or places within or without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors or the respective officers in charge thereof may from time to time determine.  The stock record
Location
 
 
 
 
31
books shall be kept by such officer or agent as shall be designated by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 2.  .  Notices of meetings and all other corporate notices may be delivered personally or mailed to each stockholder at his or her address as it appears on the records of the Company.
Addresses of Stockholders
SECTION 3.  .  In order that the Company may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any other change, conversion, or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a
Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record
record date, which shall not be more than 60 nor less than 10 days before the date of such meeting, nor more than 60 days prior to any other action.  A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
 
SHARES OF STOCK AND THEIR TRANSFER
 
SECTION 1.  . The shares of the Company may be represented by certificates or may be uncertificated, as provided under the Delaware General Corporation Law. Every holder
Certificates of Stock
 
 
 
 
32
of stock represented by certificates shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Company by, the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, a President, or a Vice President and the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company representing the number of shares registered in certificate form. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed, or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon, a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, the certificate may, nevertheless, be issued by the Company with the same effect as if such person were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
 
SECTION 2.   A record shall be kept of the name of the person, firm, or corporation owning the stock represented by each certificate of stock of the Company issued, the number of shares represented by each such certificate, and the date thereof, and in the case of cancellation, the date of cancellation. The person in whose name shares of stock stand on the books of the Company shall be deemed the owner of record thereof for all purposes as regards the Company.
Record, etc.
SECTION 3.  . Transfers of shares of the stock of the Company shall be made only on the books of the Company by the owner of record thereof, or by his or her attorney thereunto authorized by power of attorney duly executed and filed
Transfer of Stock
 
 
 
 
33
with such officer or agent as shall be designated by the Board of Directors or with the transfer agent of the Company, and if certificated, on the surrender of the certificate or certificates for such share properly endorsed and the payment of all taxes thereon, or if uncertificated, in accordance with applicable law.
DIVIDENDS AND RESERVES
The Board of Directors may, from time to time, determine whether any, and if any, what part, of the net profits of the Company or of its surplus, available therefor pursuant to law and to the certificate of incorporation, shall be declared as dividends on the stock of the Company.  The Board of Directors may, in its discretion, set apart out of any of such net profits or surplus a reserve or reserves for any proper purpose and may abolish any such reserve.
 
INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AND AGENTS
The Company may indemnify, in accordance with and to the full extent permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware as in effect at the time of the adoption of this Article X or as such laws may be amended from time to time, and shall so indemnify to the full extent required by such laws, any person (and the heirs and legal representatives of such person) made or threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative, by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director, officer, employee, or agent of the Company or any
 
 
 
 
 constituent corporation absorbed in a consolidation or merger, or serves or served as such with another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, or other enterprise at the request of the Company or any such constituent corporation.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article X or the laws of the State of Delaware to the contrary, no such person shall be entitled to indemnification or the advancement of expenses pursuant to this Article X with respect to any action, suit, or proceeding, or part thereof, brought or made by such person against the Company, unless such indemnification or advancement of expenses (i) is due to such person pursuant to the specific provisions of any agreement in writing between such person and the Company approved by the Company's Board of Directors or (ii) has been approved in writing in advance of the commencement of such action, suit, or proceeding, or part thereof, by or at the direction of the
Company's Board of Directors.  Any indemnification or advancement of expenses pursuant to this Article X shall only be made in the specific case by a separate determination made (i) by a majority vote of the directors who are not parties to such action, suit, or proceeding, even though less than a quorum, or (ii) if there are no such directors, or if such directors so direct, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (iii) by the Company's stockholders, as to entitlement to advancement of expenses and/or indemnification, as the case may be.
 
 
 
 
 
35
RATIFICATION
Any transaction, questioned in any stockholders' derivative suit on the ground of lack of authority, defective or irregular execution, adverse interest of director, officer, or stockholder, non-disclosure, miscomputation, or the application of improper principles or practices of accounting, may be ratified, before or after judgment, by the Board of Directors or by the stockholders in case less than a quorum of directors are qualified, and if so ratified, shall have the same force and effect as if the questioned transaction had been originally duly authorized.  Such ratification shall be binding upon the Company and its stockholders and shall constitute a bar to any claim or execution of any judgment in respect of such questioned transaction.
SEAL
The Board of Directors shall provide a corporate seal, which shall be in the form of a circle and shall bear the name of the Company and the words and figures "Corporate Seal 1924 Delaware".
FISCAL YEAR
   The fiscal year of the Company shall end at the close of business on the Saturday closest to January 31 and shall, in each case, begin at the opening of business on the day next succeeding the last day of the preceding fiscal year.
 
 
 
 
36
WAIVER OF NOTICE
   Whenever notice is required to be given under any provision of these Bylaws, the certificate of incorporation, or the laws of the State of Delaware, a written waiver thereof, whether in the form of a writing signed by, or a telegram, cable, radiogram, telephone facsimile, or other appropriate written communication from, the person entitled to notice and whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice.  Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of the meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to 
the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.  Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any meeting of the stockholders or directors or a committee of directors need be specified in any written waiver of notice.
ARTICLE XV
EMERGENCY BYLAWS
   SECTION 1.   .  Notwithstanding any other provisions of the certificate of incorporation and these Bylaws, the emergency bylaws (hereinafter called Emergency Bylaws) provided in this Article XV shall be operative during any emergency resulting from an attack on the United States or on any locality in which the Company conducts its business or customarily holds meetings of its
General
 
 
 
 
37
Board of Directors or its stockholders, or during any nuclear or atomic disaster, or during the existence of any catastrophe, or other similar emergency condition (any such condition being hereinafter called an Emergency), as a result of which a quorum of the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee cannot readily be convened for action.  To the extent not inconsistent with these Emergency Bylaws, the Bylaws of the Company shall remain in effect during any Emergency.  Upon termination of the Emergency, these Emergency Bylaws shall cease to be operative unless and until another Emergency shall occur.
 
SECTION 2.   .  During any Emergency any meeting of the Board of Directors or of the Executive Committee may be called by any director or officer of the Company.  Notice of the meeting shall be given by the person calling the meeting, shall state the time and place of the meeting, and shall be required to be given only to such of the directors or members of the Executive Committee, as the case may be, and the persons referred to in Section 3 of this Article XV as it may be feasible to reach at the time and by any means as may then be feasible at the time.
Meetings and Notice of Meetings
SECTION 3.    . The directors and members of the Executive Committee, as the case may be, in attendance at a meeting pursuant to Section 2 of this Article XV, which in no case shall be less than two, shall constitute a quorum of the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee, as the case may be, and they may take any action at the
Quorum, Emergency Directors, and Manner of Acting
 
 
 
 
38
meeting, by majority vote, as they shall, in their sole discretion, deem to be in the best interests of the Company.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the number of directors or members of the Executive Committee, as the case may be, available to constitute a quorum at any such meeting, shall be less than two, additional directors, or additional members of the Executive Committee, as the case may be, in whatever number shall be necessary to constitute a Board or Executive Committee, as the case may be, of at least two members, shall be deemed selected automatically from the officers or other persons designated on a list approved by the Board of Directors before the Emergency, all
in such order of priority and subject to such conditions and for such period or periods as may be provided in the resolution approving the list.  The Board of Directors or Executive Committee, as the case may be, as so constituted shall continue until the termination of the Emergency.  The Board of Directors, either before or during any Emergency, may provide, and from time to time modify, lines of succession in the event that during such Emergency any or all officers of the Company shall for any reason be rendered incapable of discharging their duties.  Any additional director or additional member of the Executive Committee, as the case may be, may be removed, either with or without cause, by a majority vote of the remaining directors or members of the Executive Committee, as the case may be, then in office.
SECTION 4.    .  The Board of Directors, either before or during any Emergency, may, effective during the Emergency, change the head office of the Company or
Offices; Places of Meeting
 
 
 
 
39
designate several alternative head offices or regional offices of the Company or authorize the officers to do so.
SECTION 5.     .  No officer, director, or employee shall be personally liable for acting in accordance with these Emergency Bylaws, except for willful misconduct.
Liability during an Emergency
 
ARTICLE XVI
AMENDMENTS
Subject to the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, all Bylaws of the Company shall be subject to alteration,
amendment, or repeal, in whole or in part, and new bylaws not inconsistent with the laws of the State of Delaware or any provision of the certificate of incorporation may be made, either by the affirmative vote of a majority of the whole Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting of the Board, or by the affirmative vote of the holders of record of a majority of the issued and outstanding stock of the Company entitled to vote in respect thereof, given at an annual meeting or at any special meeting at which a quorum shall be present, provided that in each case notice of the proposed alteration, amendment, or repeal or the proposed new bylaws be included in the notice of the meeting of the Board or the stockholders, or the form of consent thereof, as the case may be.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC. REPORTS 2011 FOURTH QUARTER AND
FULL-YEAR FINANCIAL RESULTS
 
Fourth Quarter and 2011 Highlights
-- J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE: JCP) today announced fourth quarter results consistent with the Companys most recent guidance.  For the fourth quarter ended Jan. 28, 2012, jcpenney reported a net loss of $87 million, or $0.41 per share.  As previously announced, this reported loss includes restructuring and management transition charges which totaled $0.56 per share, as well as the financial impact of actions taken to execute the Companys new pricing and promotional strategy, which lowered fourth quarter earnings by an additional $0.59 per share.  The Company took these strategic actions in the fourth quarter of 2011 to position jcpenney to begin operating under the new, simplified strategy on Feb. 1, 2012  the first day of its transformation.
PLANO, Texas, Feb. 24, 2012
Ron Johnson, jcpenneys chief executive officer noted, We closed the year by spending two days with the Companys key stakeholders to share our blueprint for becoming Americas favorite store. While 2011 was a year of transition at jcpenney, 2012 will be a year of transformation.  With this in mind, our associate teams worked tirelessly throughout the quarter to get the stores ready for Feb. 1, 2012.  I want to thank them for their amazing efforts.
Fourth Quarter Performance
Comparable store sales for the fourth quarter declined 1.8 percent.  Total sales decreased 4.9 percent, reflecting the Companys previous exit from its catalog and catalog outlet businesses.  Internet sales through jcp.com were $480 million in the fourth quarter, decreasing 3.1 percent from last year.
 
 
 
 
Gross margin decreased $506 million compared with last years fourth quarter.  As a percent of sales, gross margin in the fourth quarter decreased approximately 740 basis points to 30.2 percent, compared to 37.6 percent in the same period last year.  Gross margins were impacted primarily by two items:
 
Despite lower sales, SG&A expense was leveraged in the quarter, declining 90 basis points to 24.8 percent of sales.  The Companys SG&A expenses decreased $122 million, or 8.3 percent, versus last year. The savings generated in the fourth quarter was due to lower incentive compensation, credit costs and advertising expenses.    
For the fourth quarter, the Company incurred $154 million in restructuring and management transition charges.  These charges comprised the following:
Total operating expenses were 31.5 percent of sales for the quarter. The Companys operating loss for the fourth quarter totaled $73 million, which includes the financial impact of changes to the Companys pricing strategy and the restructuring and management transition charges discussed above, as well as $58 million of store impairment charges recorded in real estate and othe
r.
Full-Year Operating Performance
For 2011, comparable store sales increased 0.2 percent.  Total sales decreased 2.8 percent for the year.  Internet sales through jcp.com remained essentially flat at $1.5 billion.
For the year, the Companys gross margin decreased $742 million from last year.  As a percent of sales, gross margin decreased 320 basis points to 36.0 percent when compared to last year.  For the year, SG&A dollars decreased $249 million or 4.6 percent.
 
 
 
 
The Company reported an operating loss for the full year of $2 million, which includes $451 million of restructuring and management transition charges. Excluding restructuring and management transition charges and the non-cash qualified pension plan expense of $87 million for the year; adjusted operating income was $536 million.  A reconciliation of non-GAAP adjusted operating income to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included with this release.
The Company ended the year with its inventory down approximately 9.2 percent as compared to last year. The Companys financial position remained strong in 2011 with cash and cash equivalents totaling approximately $1.5 billion as of the end of the year.
2012 Outlook and Earnings Calendar
As previously announced, the Company expects full-year earnings for fiscal year 2012 to meet or exceed $1.59 per share.  This includes approximately $15 million of restructuring charges to complete the realignment of the Companys supply chain operations and approximately $197 million of non-cash qualified pension plan expense.  Adjusted for these items, the Company anticipates that earnings will meet or exceed $2.16 per share on a non-GAAP basis.  The Company expects to incur additional restructuring and management transition charges related to the simplification of its business model and will disclose the financial impact of these changes with its quarterly results at a later date.  Capital expenditures for the year are expected to be approximately $800 million to support the Companys transformational efforts.
As we embark on this transformation, the strategic changes we are making to our business model will dramatically simplify jcpenneys operations, significantly lower the Companys cost structure and create a platform for growth that will result in improved profitability in 2012 and beyond, Mr. Johnson commented.  We look forward to updating our shareholders, our vendors and other key stakeholders on our progress throughout the year, beginning in May 2012 with our first quarter earnings release.
In 2012, jcpenney will report quarterly earnings after the market closes on the following dates:
 
 
 
 
The Company will host face-to-face question-and-answer sessions in New York with members of the financial community the day following jcpenney's quarterly earnings announcements.  These question-and-answer sessions will be video cast live and available for replay after the session.  Further details regarding these sessions will be published at a later date.
 
 
Pre-recorded Conference Call/Webcast Details
jcpenney will publish pre-recorded remarks to provide further commentary on the Companys 2011 fourth quarter and full year financial results.  These remarks will be available via telephone and webcast replay beginning at approximately 8:30 a.m. EST.  To access the pre-recorded comments, please dial (866) 519-1043 or (585) 295-5443 for international callers. The webcast replay may be accessed via the Companys Investor Relations page at ir.jcpenney.com, or on streetevents.com (for subscribers) or investorcalendar.com for up to 90 days after the event.
For further information, contact:
Investor Relations
Kristin Hays and Angelika Torres; (972) 431-5500
jcpinvestorrelations@jcpenney.com
Media Relations
Darcie Brossart and Rebecca Winter; (972) 431-3400
jcpcorpcomm@jcpenney.com
Investor Relations Website
ir.jcpenney.com
About J. C. Penney Company, Inc.
Over 110 years ago, James Cash Penney founded his company on the principle of treating customers the way he wanted to be treated himself: fair and square. Today, rooted in its rich heritage, J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE: JCP) is re-imagining every aspect of its business in order to reclaim its birthright and become Americas favorite store. The Company is transforming the way it does business and remaking the customer experience across its 1,100-jcpenney stores and on jcp.com. At every visit, customers will discover straightforward Fair and Square Pricing, month-long promotions that are in sync with the rhythm of their lives, exceptionally curated merchandise, artful presentation, and unmatched customer service.
For more information about jcpenney, visit jcp.com.
This release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements, which reflect the Company's current views of future events and financial performance, involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause the Company's actual results to be materially different from planned or expected results. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions, including inflation, recession, unemployment levels, consumer spending patterns, credit availability and debt levels, changes in store traffic trends, the cost of goods, trade restrictions, the impact of changes in pricing strategies, changes in tariff, freight and shipping rates, changes in the cost of fuel and other energy and transportation costs, increases in wage and benefit costs, competition and retail industry consolidations,
 
 
 
 
 
 
interest rate fluctuations, dollar and other currency valuations, the impact of weather conditions, risks associated with war, an act of terrorism or pandemic, and a systems failure and/or security breach that results in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer, employee or Company information, and legal and regulatory proceedings.  Please refer to the Company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties. Investors should take such risks into account when making investment decisions. We do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements as of any future date.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


