FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20120515161908.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 431-1000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
 
 
 
 
 
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (the Company) issued an earnings press release on May 15, 2012 announcing its 2012 first quarter results of operations and financial condition. This information is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The press release and accompanying schedules provide certain information regarding (i) adjusted gross margin, (ii) adjusted operating income/(loss), (iii) adjusted net income/(loss), (iv) adjusted earnings/(loss) per share - diluted and (v) free cash flow, all of which may be considered non-GAAP financial measures under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. A reconciliation of each such non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is included with the release.
We define (i) adjusted gross margin as gross margin excluding the impact of markdowns related to the alignment of inventory with the Companys new strategy, (ii) adjusted operating income/(loss) as operating income/(loss) excluding the impact of markdowns related to the alignment of inventory with the Companys new strategy, restructuring and management transition charges and the non-cash impact of the qualified pension expense, (iii) adjusted net income/(loss) as net income/(loss) excluding the impact of the after-tax markdowns related to the alignment of inventory with the Companys new strategy, the after-tax restructuring and management transition charges and the after-tax non-cash impact of the qualified pension expense and (iv) adjusted earnings/(loss) per share - diluted as earnings/(loss) per share - diluted excluding the impact of the after-tax markdowns related to the alignment of inventory with the Companys new strategy, the after-tax restructuring and management transition charges and the after-tax non-cash impact of the qualified pension expense.  We believe that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures, which our management relies on to assess our operating results, is useful in order to better understand the operating performance of our core business, provide enhanced visibility into our selling, general and administrative expense structure and to facilitate the comparison of our results to the results of our peer companies. 
We define free cash flow as cash flows from operating activities excluding discretionary cash contributions to the Companys primary pension plan, less capital expenditures and dividends paid, plus proceeds from the sale of assets.  Adjustments to exclude discretionary pension plan contributions are more indicative of the Companys ability to generate cash flows from operating activities.  We believe discretionary pension plan contributions are more reflective of financing transactions to pay-down off-balance sheet debt relating to the pension liability.  In addition, we believe that free cash flow is a relevant indicator of our ability to repay maturing debt, both on and off-balance sheet, revise our dividend policy or fund other uses of capital that we believe will enhance stockholder value. Free cash flow is limited and does not represent remaining cash flows available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt maturities, pay-down of off-balance sheet pension debt, and other obligations or payments made for business acquisitions.
We believe it is important to view each of these non-GAAP financial measures in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, the GAAP measures of gross margin, operating income/(loss), net income/(loss), earnings/(loss) per share - diluted, and cash flows from operating activities, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01         Other Events.
The Company announced today that it will discontinue the $0.20 per share quarterly dividend.
Item 9.01         Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
By:  
/s/ Janet Dhillon
 
      Janet Dhillon
Date:  May 15, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
                          
Exhibit Number
Description
99.1                                  J. C. Penney Company, Inc. News Release issued May 15, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
-- J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE: JCP) today announced financial results for its fiscal quarter ended April 28, 2012.  For the quarter, jcpenney reported an adjusted net loss of $55 million or $0.25 per share, excluding markdowns taken as a result of the Companys continuing efforts to reduce inventory levels to align with its new strategy,restructuring and management transition charges and non-cash qualified pension expense.  On a GAAP basis, the Company reported a net loss of $163 million or $0.75 per share.  A reconciliation of non-GAAP adjusted net loss to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included with this release.
PLANO, Texas, May 15, 2012
 
Sales and profitability have been tougher than anticipated during the first 13 weeks, but the transformation is ahead of schedule.  Customers love the new jcp they discover in our stores.  Our shop strategy has been applauded by vendor and design partners, our merchants have stepped up to the challenge of improving our merchandise and presentation, we have dramatically simplified our business model and reorganized our teams at headquarters and in our stores.  While we have work to do to educate the customer on our pricing strategy and to drive more traffic to our stores, we are confident in our vision to become America's favorite store.  We fully expect that the bold and strategic changes we are making to our operations will result in improved profitability and sustainable growth over the long term, said Ron Johnson, chief executive officer of jcpenney.
First Quarter Results:
Comparable store sales for the first quarter declined 18.9 percent.  Total sales decreased 20.1 percent, which includes the effects of the Companys exit from its outlet business.  Internet sales through jcp.com were $271 million in the first quarter, decreasing 27.9 percent from last year.
 
 
 
 
Gross margin was 37.6 percent of sales, compared to 40.5 percent in the same period last year.  Overall, compared to last year, gross margin was impacted by lower than expected sales in the quarter and the impact of taking deeper seasonal markdowns to clear inventory coming out of the fourth quarter of 2011.  This also includes the impact of a $53 million markdown reserve taken as a result of the Companys continuing efforts to reduce inventory levels to align with its new strategy.  This reserve had a 170 basis point impact on gross margin; excluding this reserve, gross margin was 39.3 percent of sales.  A reconciliation of non-GAAP adjusted gross margin to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included with this release.
The Companys SG&A expenses decreased $121 million versus last years first quarter.  Based on the pace of its ongoing efforts to aggressively manage expenses, coupled with additional operational efficiencies that management has identified, the Company now expects savings to accelerate and exceed the run rate of approximately $900 million at the end of 2012, one year earlier than it had previously announced.
For the first quarter, the Company incurred $76 million in restructuring and management transition charges.  These charges comprised the following:
2012 Outlook:
The Company anticipates it will incur additional restructuring charges throughout the fiscal year as it takes aggressive action to further simplify its operations and its infrastructure.  In addition, as the Company continues to transform its merchandise assortment to align with its new strategy, the Company may incur additional inventory write-downs as it exits certain lines of merchandise.  As a result of these impacts, the Company no longer expects to meet  its annual GAAP earnings guidance of $1.59 per share, but affirms its non-GAAP earnings guidance of $2.16 per share which excludes non-cash qualified pension expense, restructuring charges and markdown reserves as we transition our merchandise assortment.
Additionally, the Company announced today that it will discontinue the $0.20 per share quarterly dividend.  On an annual basis, this will result in cash savings of approximately $175 million, which will be used to help fund the broad-based transformation plan that jcpenney announced in January.
 
 
 
 
 
Earnings Event Today/Webcast Details
At 5:00 p.m. ET today, the Company will host an in-person meeting with members of the financial community at SIR Stage 37 in New York City.  The jcp leadership team will provide further commentary on the Companys first quarter 2012 financial results, share key learnings from the initial stages of the transformation and present an update on the Companys progress toward becoming America's favorite store.
The presentations and question-and-answer session will also be available live via streaming video and webcast on the Company's investor relations website at .  Replays of the webcasts will be available for up to 90 days after the event.
ir.jcpenney.com
For individuals without access to the webcast, the event will also be available via live conference call in listen-only mode.  To access the presentations and question-and-answer session, please dial (800) 381-7839, or (212) 231-2900 for international callers, and reference the jcp first quarter earnings event.  Telephone playback will be available for seven days beginning approximately two hours after the conclusion of the meeting by dialing (800) 633-8284, reservation code 21589157 and (402) 977-9140, reservation code 21589157 for international callers.
For further information, contact:
Kristin Hays and Angelika Torres; (972) 431-5500
jcpinvestorrelations@jcpenney.com
; (972) 431-3400
Daphne Avila and Joey Thomas
jcpcorpcomm@jcpenney.com
Corporate Website
ir.jcpenney.com
About jcpenney:
Over 110 years ago, James Cash Penney founded his company on the principle of treating customers the way he wanted to be treated himself: fair and square. Today, rooted in its rich heritage, J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE: JCP) is re-imagining every aspect of its business in order to reclaim its birthright and become America's favorite store. The Company is transforming the way it does business and remaking the customer experience across its 1,100 jcpenney stores and on jcp.com. At every visit, customers will discover straightforward Fair and Square Pricing, month-long promotions that are in sync with the rhythm of their lives, exceptionally curated merchandise, artful presentation, and unmatched customer service.
For more information about jcpenney, visit jcp.com.
 
 
 
 
 
This release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements, which reflect the Company's current views of future events and financial performance, involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause the Company's actual results to be materially different from planned or expected results. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions, including inflation, recession, unemployment levels, consumer spending patterns, credit availability and debt levels, changes in store traffic trends, the cost of goods, trade restrictions, the impact of changes designed to transform our business, changes in tariff, freight and shipping rates, changes in the cost of fuel and other energy and transportation costs, increases in wage and benefit costs, competition and retail industry consolidations, interest rate fluctuations, dollar and other currency valuations, the impact of weather conditions, risks associated with war, an act of terrorism or pandemic, a systems failure and/or security breach that results in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer, employee or Company information and legal and regulatory proceedings.  Please refer to the Company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties. Investors should take such risks into account when making investment decisions. We do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements as of any future date.


