ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. GENERAL. Our revenues and net income are derived primarily from investment advisory services provided to U.S. individual and institutional investors in our sponsored mutual funds and other investment portfolios. Investors outside the United States account for just over 2% of our assets under management. We manage a broad range of U.S. domestic and international stock, bond, and money market mutual funds and other investment portfolios which meet the varied needs and objectives of individual and institutional investors. Investment advisory revenues depend largely on the total value and composition of assets under management. Accordingly, fluctuations in financial markets and in the composition of assets under management impact our revenues and results of operations. Total assets under our management were $140.6 billion at December 31, 2002, including $92.9 billion in equity securities and $47.7 billion in bond and money market holdings. Lower financial market valuations more than offset our net investor inflows in 2002 and decreased our assets under management by 10% or $15.7 billion over the course of the year. Our expenditures to broaden our investor base may be significant and precede the revenues that we may obtain from any new investment advisory clients. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. 2002 VERSUS 2001. Net income decreased about $1.6 million, or 1%, to $194.3 million. Diluted earnings per share was unchanged at $1.52 as lower weighted average shares and share equivalents outstanding due to our repurchase of 2.8 million common shares in 2002 and our common stocks generally lower per share market value offset the decline in net income. With the adoption of the new accounting standard for goodwill on January 1, 2002, we have ceased amortizing the goodwill that is recognized in our consolidated balance sheet. After excluding the 2001 amortization of goodwill in the amount of $28.9 million, adjusted net income for 2001 was $224.8 million and adjusted diluted earnings per share was $1.74. Total revenues declined $70.6 million, or 7%, to $925.8 million and net revenues declined a similar 7% or $71.9 million to $923.5 million. Investment advisory revenues earned from the T. Rowe Price mutual funds distributed in the United States decreased $43.5 million as average fund assets under management were $92.1 billion during 2002, $6.6 billion less than in 2001. Weakness in financial market valuations that began in early 2000 have continued nearly three years. During the second half of 2002, U.S. equity market valuations fell to levels last seen in the first half of 1997. Mutual fund assets ended 2002 at almost $87.3 billion, down $10.7 billion from December 31, 2001 and nearly $4.9 billion from the 2002 average. The Price funds had $3.1 billion of net cash inflows during 2002, the highest net annual inflows since 1998; however, market depreciation, net of income and dividends paid but not reinvested, more than offset the inflows and reduced fund assets $13.8 billion in 2002. Money market and bond funds had net investor subscriptions of $1.9 billion and stock funds added an additional $1.2 billion of net inflows. Bond fund investors seeking higher yields added $704 million to the High Yield Fund in 2002. Net inflows of $2.7 billion to U.S. domestic stock funds in 2002 were led Page 13 primarily by value oriented investors in the Equity Income, Mid Cap Value, and Small Cap Value funds while international stock fund investors had net redemptions of $1.5 billion during the year. Investment advisory revenues earned from the other investment portfolios that we manage were down $11.2 million in 2002 on lower assets under management that also resulted from lower market valuations. The value of the assets in these portfolios decreased $5 billion during 2002 to $53.3 billion at year end as net cash inflows of $1.7 billion were more than offset by $6.7 billion of market value losses. Additionally, performance based advisory fees were down $5 million from 2001 to $1.2 million in 2002. We earn these fees primarily from a managed disposition service for distributions of venture capital investments and, though recurring, these fees will vary significantly over time. They have declined during the past two years as market conditions were unfavorable and investment portfolios changed. Administrative revenues and other income decreased $12.4 million from 2001 to $207.4 million in 2002. This decrease is primarily attributable to transfer agency and participant recordkeeping services that we provide for defined contribution retirement plans and was partially offset by a $2.3 million increase in 12b 1 distribution fees received from our Advisor class of mutual fund shares. These revenue changes are generally offset by similar changes in the expenses that we incurred to provide the services and distribute the Advisor shares through third parties. Total revenues also increased $1.5 million on greater investment income from the larger investment portfolio of our savings bank subsidiary. Our savings bank depositor base increased from $25 million at December 31, 2001 to $81 million at the end of 2002. Interest expense on the higher deposits increased $1.3 million. We manage the assets of our savings bank as a portfolio in a manner similar to that of our other investment advisory clients. The net of our investment portfolio income and depositor interest expense results in a net revenue amount that is similar to the investment advisory fees earned on the investment portfolios that we manage. Operating expenses in 2002 were $81.2 million less than in 2001. The elimination of the amortization of goodwill accounts for $28.9 million or about 36% of the decrease. Our largest expense, compensation and related costs, decreased 7% or $27.4 million from 2001. Our average staff size, use of temporary personnel in the technology operations group, and total levels of compensation were all lower in 2002. Attrition and a late 2001 staff reduction lowered our average number of associates in 2002 by 6% from the average 2001 level. At December 31, 2002, we employed 3,710 associates, up 2% from the 2002 average. Advertising and promotion expenditures were down $5.6 million in 2002 as we again curtailed these expenditures due to weak financial market conditions that have made investors more cautious and less active. We vary our promotional spending based on market conditions and investor demand as well as our efforts to expand our investor base in the United States and abroad. We expect our advertising and promotion expenditures in the first half of 2003 to be similar to the first half of 2002. Market conditions in the second half of the year will dictate our spending then. Occupancy and facility costs and other operating expenses in 2002 decreased $5.8 million and $12.5 million, respectively, versus 2001. These reductions primarily reflect the first half 2001 completions of several technology initiatives as well as the international facilities and infrastructure transition that resulted from the August 2000 purchase of Page 14 Robert Fleming Holdings interest in our consolidated subsidiary, T. Rowe Price International. Through the first half of 2001, we incurred substantial costs to establish and transition this entity to new operating facilities with appropriate infrastructure support for their international investment operations. Robert Fleming affiliates previously provided the space and infrastructure support for these offices. Overall, net operating income was up $9.3 million from 2001 to 2002 including the goodwill amortization of $28.9 million in 2001 that did not recur in 2002. Non operating income and expenses include the recognition of investment gains and losses as well as interest expense incurred on our indebtedness. While we recognized $31 million of net investment income in 2001, we experienced a net investment loss of $8.3 million in 2002 as interest and dividend income of $3.3 million was more than offset by losses across all of our investment portfolios. During 2002, we recognized $3.9 million of losses on dispositions and other than temporary impairments of our mutual fund holdings, $3.3 million of losses on our holdings of collateralized bond obligations, $1.4 million of losses from exchange rate fluctuations on our yen debt, and $3.0 million of valuation decreases in our private equity holdings. Our mutual fund investment holdings at December 31, 2002 include an aggregate net gain, before income taxes, of $11.3 million that is included in stockholders equity as part of accumulated other comprehensive income. This net gain has not been recognized in our statements of income and comprises aggregate gains of $15.5 million and aggregate losses of $4.2 million that have arisen since June 30, 2002 and are considered temporary. Interest expense on our debt is down more than $9 million due to lower principal balances and interest rates in 2002. Overall, we recognized a net non operating loss of $10.9 million in 2002 versus net non operating income of $19.4 million in 2001. The 2002 provision for income taxes as a percentage of pretax income is lower than that of 2001 due primarily to eliminating the amortization of nondeductible goodwill in 2002. 2001 VERSUS 2000. The presentation of our results of operations in our consolidated statements of income for 2001 and 2000 has been changed to conform to our 2002 presentation. The following narrative has been modified from that presented in our 2001 Annual Report to provide a discussion that can be read in conjunction with the new presentation in our consolidated income statement. Net income decreased $73.2 million, or 27%, to $196 million, and diluted earnings per share fell from $2.08 to $1.52. A full years amortization of goodwill arising from the T. Rowe Price International acquisition accounted for $.13 of the decline. Total revenues declined 14% from $1.15 billion to just under $1 billion. Net revenues also declined 14% to $995 million. Investment advisory revenues earned from the T. Rowe Price mutual funds decreased $101 million as average fund assets under management were $98.7 billion during 2001, $15.2 billion less than in 2000. Weakness in financial market valuations that began in 2000 continued through 2001. The terrorist attacks in the United States on September 11, 2001 pushed financial markets down to their lowest levels of the year before they recovered somewhat in the fourth quarter. Mutual fund assets ended the year at $98.0 billion, down $750 million from the 2001 average and $8.3 billion from the start of 2001. Page 15 The Science & Technology Fund and the international funds accounted for $4.1 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively, of the $8.6 billion net decline in mutual fund valuations during 2001. Dividends paid by the mutual funds, net of reinvestments, were $.2 billion in 2001. Net inflows from fund investors were $.5 billion in 2001. Domestic stock funds had net investor subscriptions of more than $1.8 billion while money market and bond fund investors added almost $.7 billion. Two U.S. growth funds led the inflows with the Small Cap Stock and Blue Chip Growth Funds adding a total of $1.4 billion from investors. International stock funds had net outflows of $2.0 billion. Assets in the other investment portfolios that we manage fell $2.1 billion during 2001, and our advisory fees thereon were down $30.4 million. While the same financial market declines played a significant role in reducing these assets, cash inflows, primarily from third party distribution efforts and international initiatives, added about $2.9 billion to assets under management in 2001. Additionally, adverse market conditions pushed performance related advisory fees down $10.3 million in 2001. Administrative revenues and other income were down $17.5 million from 2000. Discount brokerage commissions fell $10.0 million from the prior year as investor trading activity and average commission rates were lower. Other administrative revenues declined $7.5 million but were mostly offset by reduced costs of the services that we provide to the mutual funds and defined contribution retirement plans. Our savings bank subsidiarys customer deposits increased in 2001 and added $1.1 million to total revenues and $.3 million to net revenues versus 2000. Operating expenses declined about 8% from $744 million in 2000 to $684 million in 2001. Compensation and related costs is our largest expense and was up only 1% or $4.3 million from 2000. Our average staff size was up about 2% versus 2000 but total compensation levels, including bonus expense and the use of temporary personnel by our information technology operations, were down in 2001. Staff reductions, primarily in November 2001, together with attrition during the year reduced our staff to 3,650 associates at December 31, 2001, a 9% reduction from the end of 2000. Our advertising and promotion expense decreased almost 27% or $23.6 million to $64.6 million in 2001 as we curtailed these expenditures due to weak financial market conditions that made investors more cautious and less active. International investment research fees were eliminated in August 2000 at the time of the T. Rowe Price International acquisition. Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment was $9.8 million higher in 2001 due primarily to additional amortization from recently completed software and technology projects, as well as depreciation of new operating facilities. We completed our move into new space in London in the first quarter of 2001 and in Colorado Springs in the fourth quarter of 2000. Occupancy and facility costs are down from 2000 as the temporary facilities and other additional costs associated with the moves were eliminated. A full years amortization of goodwill arising from the T. Rowe Price International acquisition added $17.0 million to our 2001 expenses. Other operating expenses decreased 25% or $29.1 million from 2000. As the international transition and several technology initiatives have been brought to a close, we have substantially reduced other operating expenses. Page 16 Overall, net operating income was down $98 million from 2000 to 2001, including the additional $17 million of goodwill expense. Net non operating income was also down more than $29 million from 2000. Net investment income declined $27.2 million to $31.0 million, with smaller cash and mutual fund holdings as well as lower interest rates in 2001 accounting for the decline. Gains from our venture capital investments in 2000 that did not recur in 2001 were mostly offset by $11.3 million of greater realized gains from 2001 dispositions of our available for sale mutual fund holdings. Interest expense on our debt increased almost $2.2 million as our acquisition indebtedness was outstanding for only five months in 2000. The 2001 provision for income taxes as a percentage of pretax income is higher than that of 2000 largely due to the full years amortization of nondeductible goodwill. Minority interests declined due to the 2000 acquisition and the elimination of the interests in a remaining venture in the first quarter of 2001. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY. During the three years ended December 31, 2002, stockholders equity increased from $770 million to more than $1.1 billion. Stockholders equity at December 31, 2002 includes $8.6 million of unrealized investment holding gains, after provision for income taxes, and $42 million which is restricted as to use under various regulations and agreements arising in the ordinary course of business. Net liquid assets of more than $175 million are available at the beginning of 2003. Unused committed credit facilities at the beginning of 2003 include $458 million expiring in June 2005 and $100 million expiring in June 2003. During 2002, we repaid $49 million of our debt and expended $96 million in the repurchase of our common shares. These cash outflows were funded by existing cash balances, proceeds of $25 million from exercises of our stock options, and cash provided by our operating activities. Operating activities provided cash flows of $269 million in 2002 as compared to $290 million in 2001. Net cash expended in investing activities increased $86 million from 2001 to $95 million in 2002. In 2001 we made net redemptions of our sponsored mutual fund holdings of $53 million versus net investments of $10 million in 2002. Investments in property and equipment in 2002 were down $15 million versus 2001 while our savings bank subsidiary increased its investment portfolio more than $60 million as a result of increasing its customer deposits. Cash used in financing activities was down about $140 million in 2002 versus 2001. Bank borrowings were reduced $49 million in 2002 versus $205 million in 2001. With our debt having been substantially reduced, we used our cash flows to step up our share repurchase activity and, on a net basis after increased option exercises, expended nearly $53 million more for share repurchases in 2002. Anticipated property and equipment expenditures in 2003 are approximately $36 million. These capital expenditures, further debt reductions, and additional share repurchases are expected to be funded from existing cash balances and 2003 operating cash flows. Under the terms of existing operating leases, we are contractually obliged to make certain future lease payments. These aggregate commitments are discussed in Note 8 to our financial statements included elsewhere in this Page 17 2002 Annual Report and include $19.2 million in 2003, $14.6 million in 2004, $28.8 million in 2005 2007, and $47.1 million thereafter. We have historically funded our operating lease payments from current year cash flows from operations and expect to continue to do so in the foreseeable future. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES. The preparation of financial statements often requires the selection of specific accounting methods and policies from among several acceptable alternatives. Further, significant estimates and judgments may be required in selecting and applying those methods and policies in the recognition of the assets and liabilities in our balance sheet, the revenues and expenses in our statement of income, and the information that is contained in our significant accounting policies and notes to the financial statements. Making these estimates and judgments requires the analysis of information concerning events that may not yet be complete and of facts and circumstances that may change over time. Accordingly, actual amounts or future results could differ materially from those estimates that we include currently in our financial statements and notes thereto. We have historically presented those significant accounting policies that we use in the preparation of our financial statements as an integral part of those statements and have done so again in this 2002 Annual Report. In the following discussion, we highlight and explain further certain of those policies that are most critical to the preparation and understanding of our financial statements. The application of these policies often requires significant judgments and estimates. OTHER THAN TEMPORARY IMPAIRMENTS OF AVAILABLE FOR SALE SECURITIES. We classify our investment holdings in sponsored mutual funds and the debt securities held in the investment portfolio of our savings bank subsidiary as available for sale. At the end of each quarter, we mark the carrying amount of each investment holding to fair value and recognize an unrealized gain or loss in other comprehensive income within stockholders equity. We next review each individual security position that has an unrealized loss to determine if that loss is other than temporary. A mutual fund holding that has had an unrealized loss for more than six months is presumed to have an other than temporary loss and an impairment is recognized in our statement of income unless there is persuasive evidence, such as an increase in value subsequent to quarter end, to overcome that presumption. We may also recognize an other than temporary loss of less than six months in our statement of income if the particular circumstances of the underlying investment do not warrant our belief that a near term recovery is possible. A debt security held by our savings bank subsidiary is considered impaired and an other than temporary loss is recognized whenever we determine that we will probably not collect all contractual amounts due under the terms of the security based on the issuers financial condition and our intent to hold that security. GOODWILL. As a result of the adoption of a new financial accounting standard on January 1, 2002, we ceased recording recurring charges to amortize the carrying amount of goodwill in our balance sheet. The new standard instead now requires that we evaluate goodwill for possible impairment on an annual basis using a fair value approach. We make that evaluation in the third quarter of each year. Goodwill is considered impaired whenever the carrying amount of the related reporting unit exceeds Page 18 the fair value of that unit. We attribute all goodwill to our single reportable business segment and reporting unit, our investment advisory business. Because our testing in 2002 demonstrated that the fair value of our investment advisory business exceeded our carrying amount (basically, our stockholders equity), we concluded that no impairment exists. Should we reach a different conclusion when we conduct our evaluation in subsequent years, additional work would be performed to ascertain the amount of the non cash charge needed to recognize the impairment. We must also perform impairment testing at other times if an event or circumstance occurs indicating that it is more likely than not that an impairment has been incurred. The maximum possible future impairment charge that we could incur is the amount recognized in our balance sheet, $666 million at December 31, 2002. PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES. After compensation and related costs, our provision for income taxes on our earnings is our second largest annual expense. We operate in several states and several other countries through our various subsidiaries, and must allocate income, expenses, and earnings under the various laws and regulations of each of these taxing jurisdictions. Accordingly, our provision for income taxes represents our total estimate of the liability that we have incurred for doing business in all locations. Annually, we file tax returns which represent our filing positions with each jurisdiction and settle our return liabilities. Each jurisdiction has the right to audit those returns and may take different positions with respect to income and expense allocations and taxable earnings determinations. From time to time, we may also provide for estimated liabilities associated with uncertain tax return filing positions that are subject to, or in the process of, being audited by various tax authorities. Because the determinations of our annual provisions are subject to judgments and estimates, it is possible that actual results will vary from those recognized in our financial statements. In such cases, it is possible that additional expense for prior reporting periods may be recorded in subsequent periods as actual tax returns and tax audits are settled. STOCK OPTIONS. The summary of significant accounting policies includes certain pro forma disclosures as if a fair value based method had been used to recognize compensation expense associated with our stock option grants. The fair value method uses a valuation model for shorter term, market traded financial instruments to theoretically value our stock option grants even though they are not available for trading purposes and are of longer duration. The model includes the input of certain variables that are dependent on future expectations, including the expected lives of our options from grant date to exercise date, the volatility of our underlying common shares in the market over that time period, and the rate of dividends that we will pay during that time. Additionally, the recognition of expense fluctuates based on the forfeiture rate for unvested options when employees leave the company. Our estimates for the variables used in the valuation model are made for the purpose of theoretically determining an expense for each reporting period and are not subsequently adjusted. Unlike almost all other expenses, the resulting theoretical charge to earnings using a fair value based method is a non cash charge that is never measured by a cash outflow. Page 19 NEWLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENT. On January 17, 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued an interpretation of accounting principles that have existed since 1959. In its Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, the FASB defines a variable interest entity as a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust, or any other legal structure used for business purposes that either (a) does not have equity investors with voting rights or (b) has equity investors that do not provide sufficient financial resources for the entity to support its activities. The Interpretation requires a variable interest entity to be consolidated by a company if that company is subject to, among other things, a majority of the risk of loss from the variable interest entitys residual returns. A company that is required to consolidate a variable interest entity is referred to as the primary beneficiary of that entity. We are presently reviewing the accounting requirements of this interpretation to determine its applicability to our consolidated financial statements. While our review is not complete at this time, we have initially determined that we hold residual interests in two $300 million high yield collateralized bond obligations (CBOs) for which we may be required to apply the provisions of this interpretation beginning July 1, 2003. These entities are non recourse, limited liability companies in which we hold a portion, though not a majority, of the interests in their residual returns. We are also the collateral manager of each CBO and receive a market based fee for performance of that service. We may also receive a market based performance fee, though none were recognized in 2002. Our maximum exposure to future losses from these interests is the $10 million carrying amount in other assets at December 31, 2002. FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION. From time to time, information or statements provided by or on behalf of T. Rowe Price, including those within this 2002 Annual Report to our stockholders, may contain certain forward looking information, including information or anticipated information relating to changes in our revenues and net income, changes in the amount and composition of our assets under management, our expense levels, and our expectations regarding financial markets and other conditions. Readers are cautioned that any forward looking information provided by or on behalf of T. Rowe Price is not a guarantee of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those in forward looking information as a result of various factors, including but not limited to those discussed below. Further, forward looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which it is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Our future revenues and results will fluctuate due to many factors, including: the total value and composition of assets under our management; cash inflows and outflows in the T. Rowe Price mutual funds and other managed investment portfolios; fluctuations in the financial markets around the world that result in appreciation or depreciation of the assets under our management; the relative investment performance of the Price mutual funds and other managed investment portfolios as compared to competing offerings and market indices; the extent to which we earn performance based investment advisory fees; the expense ratios of the Price mutual funds; Page 20 investor sentiment and investor confidence; the ability to maintain our investment management and administrative fees at appropriate levels; competitive conditions in the mutual fund, asset management, and broader financial services sectors; our introduction of new mutual funds and investment portfolios; our ability to contract with the Price mutual funds for payment for investment advisory related administrative services provided to the funds and their shareholders; changes in retirement savings trends favoring participant directed investments and defined contribution plans; the amount and timing of income or loss from our private equity, high yield, mutual fund, and other investments; and our level of success in implementing our strategy to expand our business internationally. Our revenues are substantially dependent on fees earned under contracts with the Price funds and could be adversely affected if the independent directors of one or more of the Price funds determined to terminate or significantly alter the terms of the investment management or related administrative services agreements. Our future results are also dependent upon the level of our expenses, which are subject to fluctuation for the following or other reasons: changes in the level of our advertising expenses in response to market conditions, including our efforts to expand our investment advisory business to investors outside the United States and to further penetrate our distribution channels within the United States; variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, changes in our employee count and mix, and competitive factors; any goodwill impairment that may arise; fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates applicable to the costs of our international operations and our yen denominated debt; expenses and capital costs, such as technology assets, depreciation, amortization, and research and development, incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure; unanticipated costs that may be incurred to protect investor accounts and the goodwill of our clients; and disruptions of services, including those provided by third parties such as facilities, communications, power, and the mutual fund transfer agent system. Our business is also subject to substantial governmental regulation, and changes in legal, regulatory, accounting, tax, and compliance requirements may have a substantial effect on our operations and results, including but not limited to effects on costs that we incur and effects on investor interest in mutual funds and investing in general, or in particular classes of mutual funds or other investments. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. Our revenues and net income are based primarily on the value of assets under our management. Accordingly, declines in financial market values directly and negatively impact our investment advisory revenues and net income. We invest in our sponsored mutual funds, which are market risk sensitive financial instruments held for purposes other than trading; we do not invest in derivative financial or commodity instruments. Mutual fund investments have inherent market risk in the form of equity price risk; that is, the potential future loss of value that would result from a decline in the fair values of the mutual fund shares. Each fund and its underlying net assets are also subject to market risk which may arise from changes in equity prices, credit ratings, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. Page 21 The following table (in thousands of dollars) presents the equity price risk from investments in sponsored mutual funds by assuming a hypothetical decline in the fair values of mutual fund shares. This potential future loss of value, before any income tax benefits, reflects the valuation of mutual fund investments at year end using each funds lowest fair value per share during the past year. In considering this presentation, it is important to note that: all funds did not experience their lowest fair value per share on the same day; it is likely that the composition of the mutual fund investment portfolio would be changed if adverse market conditions persist; and we could experience future losses in excess of those presented below. Fair value at Potential December 31, % of lower % of 2002 Portfolio value Portfolio Potential loss Stock funds $ 72,929 59 $ 63,799 60 $ 9,130 13% Bond funds 50,243 41 43,203 40 7,040 14 $123,172 100 $107,002 100 $16,170 13 The comparable potential loss of value shown in last years annual report was $15.7 million on sponsored mutual fund investments of $123.2 million at the end of 2001. During 2002, we actually experienced net unrealized losses of $10.2 million in the value of our fund investments. Investments in mutual funds generally moderate market risk because funds, by their nature, invest in a number of different financial instruments. T. Rowe Price further manages its exposure to market risk by diversifying its investments among many domestic and international funds. In addition, investment holdings may be altered from time to time, in response to changes in market risks and other factors, as deemed appropriate by management. Interest rates on our outstanding debt under the credit facility expiring in June 2005 are reset at one to six month intervals. Our borrowing rate on this debt is presently only 1.76%. Should our cost of funds increase back to the 7.1% that we experienced in early 2001, and we make no repayments of principal on the existing outstanding balance of $42 million, our interest expense for a full year would increase by $2.2 million. The investment portfolio and customer deposit liabilities of our savings bank subsidiary are subject to interest rate risk. If interest rates change 1%, the change in the net value of these assets and liabilities would not be material. The U.S. dollar weakened versus the Japanese yen again in 2002, and an exchange rate loss was recognized on our yen borrowing. In evaluating exchange rate sensitivity, a loss of $1.3 million would be recognized if the yen strengthened 10% from December 31, 2002. Other foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities are not material. We also make other investments that we include in our balance sheet in other assets. We are at risk for further losses on these investments should market conditions deteriorate as they have in the past three years. At December 31, 2002, we hold investments in a sponsored high yield collateralized bond obligation issued in 2001 that is recognized in our balance sheet at $10 million and in private equity and other entities totaling nearly $7 million. During 2002, we recognized nearly $6.4 million of losses on these investments and similar ones that we previously held. Page 22 Our risk of future loss on these investments cannot exceed the $17 million recognized in our balance sheet. Additionally, we have recognized our 10% interest in Daiwa SB Investments (Japan) at $15 million using the cost basis of accounting. Our market risk on this investment is primarily limited to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen because the functional currency of Daiwa SB Investments is the yen. 
 
