ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. GENERAL. Our revenues and net income are derived primarily from investment advisory services provided to U.S. individual and institutional investors in our sponsored mutual funds and other managed investment portfolios. Investors outside the United States have grown over the last three years and now account for 4% of our assets under management at December 31, 2003. We manage a broad range of U.S. and international stock, bond, and money market mutual funds and other investment portfolios which meet the varied needs and objectives of individual and institutional investors. Investment advisory revenues depend largely on the total value and composition of assets under our management. Accordingly, fluctuations in financial markets and in the composition of assets under management impact our revenues and results of operations. Total assets under our management were up more than $49 billion during 2003 and ended the year at an all time record of $190 billion, including $135.5 billion in equity securities and $54.5 billion in bond and money market holdings. These investment assets include $117.5 billion in the T. Rowe Price mutual funds distributed in the United States and $72.5 billion in other investment portfolios consisting of separately managed accounts, sub advised funds, and other sponsored investment portfolios offered to investors outside the United States and through variable annuity life insurance plans. Improving financial market valuations and income added more than $36 billion to our assets under management during 2003 while net investor inflows added more than $13 billion. The previous period end record for assets under management was $185 billion at March 31, 2000, the month that equity market valuations peaked and the three year market downturn began. In 2003, financial markets generally bottomed out in the first quarter and then began an upward movement that continued through the rest of the year before accelerating in the fourth quarter. A U.S. market environment with income tax cuts and low interest rates provided the underlying foundation for the market recovery. After three down years, the Dow Jones Industrials ended up 25% and the Nasdaq Composite, led primarily by larger cap technology companies, was up 50%. The broader market also captured significant gains, as the SP 500 returned nearly 29%. While the early indications are that improving corporate profits and low interest rates will be the basis for continued market gains in 2004, we do expect that the financial market growth rate in the coming year will be lower than that of 2003. Page 13 This positive financial market backdrop was diminished over the last four months of 2003 by news of trading abuses at several investment management firms, including revelations that certain fund companies permitted excessive trading or illegal after hours trading. In addition, certain intermediaries that process fund transactions allegedly assisted some investors in executing improper mutual fund trades. We have conducted a thorough review of our policies, procedures, and practices with respect to inappropriate trading activities and we have found them to be sound. As a result of the disclosures at other investment management firms, the industry and mutual funds in particular have come under greater regulatory scrutiny. New legislation and regulations designed to strengthen controls and restore investor confidence in the industry are expected in the coming months. Net cash inflows during 2003 were also a strong driver of increased assets under management. Defined contribution retirement plans, which generally provide individual investors a regular opportunity to have recurring cash investments made directly from each paycheck into personal retirement accounts, were the source of steady cash inflows through the market downturn. As 2003 progressed, the individual investor began returning to the financial markets after an almost three year absence and our cash inflows increased. We reach individual investors directly and through third party distribution efforts. Institutional investors both in the United States and in foreign countries also added net cash inflows during the year. In total, investors added nearly $7.5 billion to the T. Rowe Price mutual funds in the U.S. and $5.8 billion to the other portfolios that we manage. Reflecting the very significant improvement in the financial markets, the fourth quarter of 2003 produced the largest net inflows, accounting for $4.6 billion or nearly 35% of the net inflows for the year. For the year, the mutual fund inflows were third only to our peak inflows of $8.6 billion and $8.5 billion experienced in 1996 and 1997, respectively. In this improving market environment, we expect to increase our expenditures to attract new investment advisory clients and additional investments from our existing clients. These efforts may involve significant costs that would precede the recognition of any future revenues that we might realize from increases to our assets under management. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. 2003 versus 2002. Total revenues increased $73 million to $999 million and net revenues increased $72 million to $996 million. Net income increased $33.2 million, or 17%, to $227.5 million. Diluted earnings per share increased 16% from $1.52 to $1.77. Investment advisory revenues earned from the T. Rowe Price mutual funds distributed in the United States increased $39.2 million on higher average assets under management which increased $7.3 billion from $92.1 billion in 2002 to $99.4 billion in 2003. Market appreciation and income, net of dividends paid and not reinvested, added $22.7 billion to mutual fund assets during 2003 and net investor inflows added another $7.5 billion. As a result, fund assets under management increased from $87.3 billion at the beginning of 2003 to $117.5 billion at December 31, 2003. Stock funds had net investor subscriptions of $6.4 billion while bond and money market Page 14 funds added net inflows of $1.1 billion. Investors in the Mid Cap Growth, Equity Income, and Growth Stock funds accounted for $3.9 billion of the net inflows during the year. Bond fund investors seeking higher yields added $.9 billion to the High Yield Fund. Investment advisory revenues earned on the other investment portfolios that we manage increased $22.9 million to $219.2 million in 2003. Average assets for the year were $60.5 billion, $5 billion higher than in 2002. Year end assets in these portfolios increased $19.2 billion to $72.5 billion at December 31, 2003. Net inflows to these portfolios were $5.8 billion in 2003. Third party distribution efforts and additions from new institutional investors, both in the U.S. and overseas, were responsible for the new investment dollars. Fees from our managed disposition service for equity securities distributed from venture capital investment pools accounted for $2.2 million of the advisory revenue increase. Though recurring, these fees will vary significantly over time and through different phases of the market cycle. Administrative revenues and other income increased $10.1 million to $217.5 million in 2003. This increase is primarily attributable to increased 12b 1 distribution fees received based on greater assets under management in the Advisor class shares of our sponsored mutual funds and to the transfer agency and participant recordkeeping services that we provide for defined contribution retirement plans. These revenue changes are generally offset by similar changes in the expenses that we incur to distribute the Advisor shares through third parties and provide the services to the retirement plans. Our discount brokerage operation added $1.5 million of the increased revenues from commissions earned on greater trading volume. Operating expenses in 2003 were $27.5 million higher than in 2002. Our largest expense, compensation and related costs, including bonuses, increased 7% to $383 million. At December 31, 2003, we employed 3,783 associates, up 2% over the year. Advertising and promotion expenditures were flat versus the 2002 year as we lowered spending during the first nine months of 2003 due to financial market conditions. The final quarter of 2003 saw an increase in our advertising and promotional spending to $20.4 million, or 35% of 2003s total expense. We vary our promotional spending based on market conditions and investor demand as well as the extent of our efforts to expand our investor base in the United States and abroad. We expect our advertising and promotion expenditures in the first quarter of 2004 to be similar to the fourth quarter of 2003, with succeeding quarters being higher than that of the comparable 2003 periods. Market conditions will dictate the exact level of our spending. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $5.3 million. New capital additions in 2003 were less than depreciation expense and the depreciable book value of our property and equipment is lower than in the prior year. Other operating expenses increased $5.8 million due primarily to the $4.3 million increase in distribution costs to third parties which offset the corresponding revenues recognized from the 12b 1 fees discussed above. Overall, net operating income for 2003 increased nearly $45.5 million, or 14%, from 2002. Our net non operating results, which include the recognition of investment gains and losses as well as interest and credit facility expenses, improved from a loss of $10.9 million in 2002 to a gain of $.5 million in 2003. During 2002, we recognized net investment losses of $10.2 million on our Page 15 mutual fund investments, private equity investments, and our investments in sponsored collateralized bond obligations. Interest and related costs were down $.9 million from 2002 as we repaid all of our outstanding debt obligations during 2003. The 2003 provision for income taxes as a percentage of pretax income is slightly higher than that of 2002 due primarily to credits in the 2002 year arising from lower than previously estimated 2001 state income tax liabilities. 2002 versus 2001. Net income decreased about $1.6 million, or 1%, to $194.3 million. Diluted earnings per share was unchanged at $1.52 as lower weighted average shares and share equivalents outstanding, due to our repurchase of 2.8 million common shares in 2002 and our common stocks generally lower per share market value, offset the decline in net income. With the adoption of the new accounting standard for goodwill on January 1, 2002, we ceased amortizing the goodwill that is recognized in our consolidated balance sheet. After excluding the 2001 amortization of goodwill in the amount of $28.9 million, adjusted net income for 2001 was $224.8 million and adjusted diluted earnings per share was $1.74. Total revenues declined $70.6 million, or 7%, to $925.8 million and net revenues declined a similar 7% or $71.9 million to $923.5 million. Investment advisory revenues earned from the T. Rowe Price mutual funds distributed in the United States decreased $43.5 million as average fund assets under management were $92.1 billion during 2002, $6.6 billion less than in 2001. Weakness in financial market valuations that began in early 2000 continued for three years. During the second half of 2002, U.S. equity market valuations fell to levels last seen in the first half of 1997. Mutual fund assets ended 2002 at almost $87.3 billion, down $10.7 billion from December 31, 2001 and nearly $4.9 billion from the 2002 average. The Price funds had $3.1 billion of net cash inflows during 2002, the highest net annual inflows since 1998; however, market depreciation, net of income and dividends paid but not reinvested, more than offset the inflows and reduced fund assets $13.8 billion in 2002. Money market and bond funds had net investor subscriptions of $1.9 billion and stock funds added an additional $1.2 billion of net inflows. Bond fund investors seeking higher yields added $704 million to the High Yield Fund in 2002. Net inflows of $2.7 billion to U.S. domestic stock funds in 2002 were led primarily by value oriented investors in the Equity Income, Mid Cap Value, and Small Cap Value funds while international stock fund investors had net redemptions of $1.5 billion during the year. Investment advisory revenues earned from the other investment portfolios that we manage were down $11.2 million in 2002 on lower assets under management that also resulted from lower market valuations. The value of the assets in these portfolios decreased $5 billion during 2002 to $53.3 billion at year end as net cash inflows of $1.7 billion were more than offset by $6.7 billion of market value losses. Additionally, advisory fees from our managed disposition service were down $5 million from 2001 to $1.2 million in 2002. These fees declined during 2001 and 2002 as market conditions were unfavorable and investment portfolios changed. Administrative revenues and other income decreased $12.4 million from 2001 to $207.4 million in 2002. This decrease is primarily attributable to transfer agency and participant recordkeeping services that we provide for defined contribution retirement plans and was partially offset by a $2.3 million increase in 12b 1 distribution fees received from our Advisor class of mutual fund shares. Page 16 Total revenues also increased $1.5 million on greater investment income from the larger investment portfolio of our savings bank subsidiary. Our savings bank depositor base increased from $25 million at December 31, 2001 to $81 million at the end of 2002. Interest expense on the higher deposits increased $1.3 million. We manage the assets of our savings bank as a portfolio in a manner similar to that of our other investment advisory clients. The net of our investment portfolio income and depositor interest expense results in a net revenue amount that is similar to the investment advisory fees earned on the investment portfolios that we manage. Operating expenses in 2002 were $81.2 million less than in 2001. The elimination of the amortization of goodwill accounts for $28.9 million or about 36% of the decrease. Our largest expense, compensation and related costs, decreased 7% or $27.4 million from 2001. Our average staff size, use of temporary personnel in the technology operations group, and total levels of compensation were all lower in 2002. Attrition and a late 2001 staff reduction lowered our average number of associates in 2002 by 6% from the average 2001 level. At December 31, 2002, we employed 3,710 associates, up 2% from the 2002 average. Advertising and promotion expenditures were down $5.6 million in 2002 as we again curtailed these expenditures due to weak financial market conditions that made investors more cautious and less active. Occupancy and facility costs and other operating expenses in 2002 decreased $5.8 million and $12.5 million, respectively, versus 2001. These reductions primarily reflect the first half 2001 completions of several technology initiatives as well as the international facilities and infrastructure transition that resulted from the August 2000 purchase of Robert Fleming Holdings interest in our consolidated subsidiary, T. Rowe Price International. Through the first half of 2001, we incurred substantial costs to establish and transition this entity to new operating facilities with appropriate infrastructure support for their international investment operations. Robert Fleming affiliates previously provided the space and infrastructure support for these offices. Overall, net operating income was up $9.3 million from 2001 to 2002 including the goodwill amortization of $28.9 million in 2001 that did not recur in 2002. Non operating income and expenses include the recognition of investment gains and losses as well as interest expense incurred on our indebtedness. While we recognized $31 million of net investment income in 2001, we experienced a net investment loss of $8.3 million in 2002 as interest and dividend income of $3.3 million was more than offset by losses across all of our investment portfolios. During 2002, we recognized $3.9 million of losses on dispositions and other than temporary impairments of our mutual fund holdings, $3.3 million of losses on our holdings of collateralized bond obligations, $1.4 million of losses from exchange rate fluctuations on our yen debt, and $3.0 million of valuation decreases in our private equity holdings. Our mutual fund investment holdings at December 31, 2002 include an aggregate net gain, before income taxes, of $11.3 million that is included in stockholders equity as part of accumulated other comprehensive income. This net gain has not been recognized in our statements of income and comprises aggregate gains of $15.5 million and aggregate losses of $4.2 million that have arisen since June 30, 2002 and are considered temporary. Interest expense on our debt is down more than $9 million due to lower Page 17 principal balances and interest rates in 2002. Overall, we recognized a net non operating loss of $10.9 million in 2002 versus net non operating income of $19.4 million in 2001. The 2002 provision for income taxes as a percentage of pretax income is lower than that of 2001 due primarily to eliminating the amortization of nondeductible goodwill in 2002. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY. During 2003, stockholders equity increased from $1.1 billion to more than $1.3 billion. Available net liquid assets, including our mutual fund investments in which there are no unrealized losses, total more than $275 million at the beginning of 2004. Unused committed credit facilities that are available to the company include $500 million expiring in June 2005 and $80 million expiring in June 2004. During 2003, we retired our remaining $56.7 million of outstanding debt. Operating activities provided cash flows of $297 million in 2003, up $28 million from 2002, including $33 million of increased net income offset by lower depreciation expense of $5 million. Cash from our operating activities were used to fund $54 million of net investing activities and $118 million of net financing activities in 2003. Net cash expended in investing activities decreased $41 million versus 2002 primarily due to the investment of the more than $40 million of greater net depositor inflows made at our savings bank subsidiary in 2002. Net cash used in financing activities decreased more than $24 million versus 2002. We repurchased fewer common shares in 2003 and funded them entirely from the proceeds of stock option exercises. In 2002, we expended a net of more than $70 million on greater share repurchase activity while also receiving the larger $40 million net inflow of new savings bank deposits. We again increased dividends paid to our stockholders in 2003 and raised our quarterly rate to $.19 per share in December. Comparatively for 2001, operating activities provided cash flows of $290 million on lower net income that included a $29 million non cash charge for amortization of goodwill. Operating activities that year funded nearly all of the net investing activities of $9 million and net financing activities of $282 million. Mutual fund proceeds in 2001 of $89 million were used to fund $42 million of investments and $41 million of capital expenditures. We repaid $205 million of our bank borrowings and used $31 million to repurchase our common shares in 2001 financing activities. Increased savings bank deposits during the year were used to fund the net investments made by our savings bank subsidiary. The following table presents a summary of our future obligations under the terms of existing operating leases and other contractual cash purchase commitments at December 31, 2003. Other purchase commitments include contractual amounts that will be due for the purchase of goods or services to be used in our operations and may be cancelable at earlier times than those indicated under certain conditions that may involve termination fees. Because these obligations are of a normal recurring nature, we expect that we will fund them from future cash flows from operations. The information presented does not include operating expenses or capital expenditures that will be committed in the normal course of operations in 2004 and future years. Page 18 Total 2004 2005 6 2007 8 Later Noncancelable operating leases $ 114,683 $ 16,757 $ 30,093 $ 14,519 $ 53,314 Other purchase commitments 104,817 55,394 38,100 4,538 6,785 $ 219,500 $ 72,151 $ 68,193 $ 19,057 $ 60,099 We also have outstanding commitments to fund additional investments totaling $4.4 million at December 31, 2003. Property and equipment expenditures in 2004, including those for business continuity facilities and support, are anticipated to be about $60 million and are expected to be funded from operating cash flows. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES. The preparation of financial statements often requires the selection of specific accounting methods and policies from among several acceptable alternatives. Further, significant estimates and judgments may be required in selecting and applying those methods and policies in the recognition of the assets and liabilities in our balance sheet, the revenues and expenses in our statement of income, and the information that is contained in our significant accounting policies and notes to the financial statements. Making these estimates and judgments requires the analysis of information concerning events that may not yet be complete and of facts and circumstances that may change over time. Accordingly, actual amounts or future results could differ materially from those estimates that we include currently in our financial statements and notes thereto. We have historically presented those significant accounting policies that we use in the preparation of our financial statements as an integral part of those statements and have done so again in this 2003 Annual Report. In the following discussion, we highlight and explain further certain of those policies that are most critical to the preparation and understanding of our financial statements. The application of these policies often requires significant judgments and estimates. Other than temporary impairments of available for sale securities. We classify our investment holdings in sponsored mutual funds and the debt securities held in the investment portfolio of our savings bank subsidiary as available for sale. At the end of each quarter, we mark the carrying amount of each investment holding to fair value and recognize an unrealized gain or loss in other comprehensive income within stockholders equity. We next review each individual security position that has an unrealized loss to determine if that loss is other than temporary. A mutual fund holding that has had an unrealized loss for more than six months is presumed to have an other than temporary loss and an impairment is recognized in our statement of income unless there is persuasive evidence, such as an increase in value subsequent to quarter end, to overcome that presumption. We may also recognize an other than temporary loss of less than six months in our statement of income if the particular circumstances of the underlying investment do not warrant our belief that a near term recovery is possible. A debt security held by our savings bank subsidiary is considered impaired and an other than temporary loss is recognized whenever we determine that we will probably not collect all contractual amounts due under the terms of the security based on the issuers financial condition and our intent to hold that security. Goodwill. As a result of the adoption of a new financial accounting Page 19 standard on January 1, 2002, we ceased recording recurring charges to amortize the carrying amount of goodwill in our balance sheet. The standard instead requires that we evaluate goodwill for possible impairment on an annual basis using a fair value approach. We make that evaluation in the third quarter of each year. Goodwill is considered impaired whenever the carrying amount of the related reporting unit exceeds the fair value of that unit. We attribute all goodwill to our single reportable business segment and reporting unit, our investment advisory business. Because our testing in 2002 and 2003 demonstrated that the fair value of our investment advisory business exceeded our carrying amount (basically, our stockholders equity), we concluded that no impairment exists. Should we reach a different conclusion when we conduct our evaluation in subsequent years, additional work would be performed to ascertain the amount of the non cash charge needed to recognize the impairment. We must also perform impairment testing at other times if an event or circumstance occurs indicating that it is more likely than not that an impairment has been incurred. The maximum possible future impairment charge that we could incur is the total goodwill recognized in our balance sheet, $666 million. Provision for income taxes. After compensation and related costs, our provision for income taxes on our earnings is our second largest annual expense. We operate in several states and several other countries through our various subsidiaries, and must allocate our income, expenses, and earnings under the various laws and regulations of each of these taxing jurisdictions. Accordingly, our provision for income taxes represents our total estimate of the liability that we have incurred for doing business each year in all of our locations. Annually, we file tax returns which represent our filing positions with each jurisdiction and settle our return liabilities. Each jurisdiction has the right to audit those returns and may take different positions with respect to income and expense allocations and taxable earnings determinations. From time to time, we may also provide for estimated liabilities associated with uncertain tax return filing positions that are subject to, or in the process of, being audited by various tax authorities. Because the determinations of our annual provisions are subject to judgments and estimates, it is possible that actual results will vary from those recognized in our financial statements. In such cases, it is possible that additional expense for prior reporting periods may be recorded in subsequent periods as actual tax returns and tax audits are settled. Stock options. The summary of significant accounting policies includes certain pro forma disclosures as if a fair value based method had been used to recognize compensation expense associated with our stock option grants. Fair value methods use a valuation model for shorter term, market traded financial instruments to theoretically value stock option grants even though they are not available for trading purposes and are of longer duration. The Black Scholes option pricing model that we use includes the input of certain variables that are dependent on future expectations, including the expected lives of our options from grant date to exercise date, the volatility of our underlying common shares in the market over that time period, and the rate of dividends that we will pay during that time. Additionally, the recognition of expense fluctuates based on the forfeiture rate for unvested options when employees leave our company. Our estimates for the variables used in the valuation model are made for the purpose of theoretically determining an expense for each reporting period and are not subsequently adjusted. Unlike almost all other Page 20 expenses, the resulting theoretical charge to earnings using a fair value based method is a non cash charge that is never measured by or adjusted based on a cash outflow. FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION. From time to time, information or statements provided by or on behalf of T. Rowe Price, including those within this Annual Report, may contain certain forward looking information, including information or anticipated information relating to changes in our revenues and net income, changes in the amount and composition of our assets under management, our expense levels, and our expectations regarding financial markets and other conditions. Readers are cautioned that any forward looking information provided by or on behalf of T. Rowe Price is not a guarantee of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those in forward looking information as a result of various factors, including but not limited to those discussed below. Further, forward looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which it is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Our future revenues and results will fluctuate primarily due to changes in the total value and composition of assets under our management. Such changes result from many factors including, among other things: cash inflows and outflows in the T. Rowe Price mutual funds and other managed investment portfolios; fluctuations in the financial markets around the world that result in appreciation or depreciation of the assets under our management; our introduction of new mutual funds and investment portfolios; and changes in retirement savings trends favoring participant directed investments and defined contribution plans. The ability to attract and retain investors assets under our management is dependent on investor sentiment and confidence; the relative investment performance of the Price mutual funds and other managed investment portfolios as compared to competing offerings and market indices; the ability to maintain our investment management and administrative fees at appropriate levels; competitive conditions in the mutual fund, asset management, and broader financial services sectors; and our level of success in implementing our strategy to expand our business. Our revenues are substantially dependent on fees earned under contracts with the Price funds and could be adversely affected if the independent directors of one or more of the Price funds determined to terminate or significantly alter the terms of the investment management or related administrative services agreements. Our future results are also dependent upon the level of our expenses, which are subject to fluctuation for the following or other reasons: changes in the level of our advertising expenses in response to market conditions, including our efforts to expand our investment advisory business to investors outside the United States and to further penetrate our distribution channels within the United States; variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, changes in our employee count and mix, and competitive factors; any goodwill impairment that may arise; fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates applicable to the costs of our international operations; expenses and capital costs, such as technology assets, depreciation, amortization, and research and development, incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure; unanticipated costs that may be incurred to protect investor accounts and the goodwill of our Page 21 clients; and disruptions of services, including those provided by third parties, such as facilities, communications, power, and the mutual fund transfer agent and accounting systems. Our business is also subject to substantial governmental regulation, and changes in legal, regulatory, accounting, tax, and compliance requirements may have a substantial effect on our operations and results, including but not limited to effects on costs that we incur and effects on investor interest in mutual funds and investing in general, or in particular classes of mutual funds or other investments. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. Our revenues and net income are based primarily on the value of assets under our management. Accordingly, declines in financial market values directly and negatively impact our investment advisory revenues and net income. We invest in our sponsored mutual funds, which are market risk sensitive financial instruments held for purposes other than trading; we do not invest in derivative financial or commodity instruments. Mutual fund investments have inherent market risk in the form of equity price risk; that is, the potential future loss of value that would result from a decline in the fair values of the mutual fund shares. Each fund and its underlying net assets are also subject to market risk which may arise from changes in equity prices, credit ratings, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. The following table (in thousands of dollars) presents the equity price risk from investments in sponsored mutual funds by assuming a hypothetical decline in the fair values of mutual fund shares. This potential future loss of value, before any income tax benefits, reflects the valuation of mutual fund investments at year end using each funds lowest fair value per share during the past year. In considering this presentation, it is important to note that: all funds did not experience their lowest fair value per share on the same day; it is likely that the composition of the mutual fund investment portfolio would be changed if adverse market conditions persist; and we could experience future losses in excess of those presented below. Fair value at Potential December 31, % of lower % of 2003 Portfolio value Portfolio Potential loss Stock funds $ 106,728 66 $ 79,615 63 $ 27,113 25 % Bond funds 55,555 34 47,605 37 7,950 14 $ 162,283 100 $ 127,220 100 $ 35,063 22 The comparable potential loss of value shown in last years annual report was $16.1 million on sponsored mutual fund investments of $123.2 million at the end of 2002. During 2003, we actually experienced net unrealized gains of $32.4 million as positive market conditions significantly improved the value of our fund investments. Investments in mutual funds generally moderate market risk because funds, by their nature, are diversified investment portfolios that invest in a number of different financial instruments. T. Rowe Price further manages its exposure to market risk by diversifying its investments among many Page 22 domestic and international funds. In addition, investment holdings may be altered from time to time, in response to changes in market risks and other factors, as deemed appropriate by management. The investment portfolio and customer deposit liabilities of our savings bank subsidiary are subject to interest rate risk. If interest rates change 1%, the change in the net value of these assets and liabilities would not be material. We also make other investments that we include in our balance sheet in other assets. We are at risk for losses on these investments should market conditions deteriorate. At December 31, 2003, we hold a $4.5 million investment in a sponsored high yield collateralized bond obligation and investments totaling $6.1 million in private equity and other entities. Our risk of future loss on these investments cannot exceed the $10.6 million recognized in our balance sheet. Additionally, we have recognized our 10% interest in Daiwa SB Investments (Japan) at $15 million using the cost basis of accounting. Our market risk on this investment is primarily limited to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen because the functional currency of Daiwa SB Investments is the yen. The U.S. dollar weakened versus the currencies of several foreign countries in which we operate, most prominent among which is Great Britain. We incur operating expenses and have foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities associated with these operations, though our revenue stream is predominately realized in U.S. dollar receipts. We do not believe that foreign currency fluctuations materially impact our results of operations. 
 
