ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Item 6. Selected Financial Data and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included in Item 8. INTRODUCTION We derive our revenues from one reportable segment by providing specialized contracting services and offering comprehensive network solutions. Our customers include electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental entities. Assuming all companies we acquired prior to December 31, 2001 had been acquired on January 1, 2001, we had pro forma combined revenues for the year ended December 31, 2001 of $2.1 billion, of which 40% was attributable to electric power and gas companies, 30% was attributable to telecommunications customers, 14% was attributable to cable television operators and 16% was attributable to ancillary services, such as installing intelligent traffic networks, cable and control systems for light rail lines, airports and highways, and providing specialty rock trenching, directional boring and road milling for industrial and commercial customers. We acquired nine companies in 2001, three of which have continued as separate operating and reporting subsidiaries, or "platform" companies, while the remaining six acquired companies were "tuck in" acquisitions whose operating and accounting activities were absorbed into other operating subsidiaries. We enter into contracts principally on the basis of competitive unit price or fixed price bids, the final terms and prices of which we frequently negotiate with the customer. Although the terms of our contracts vary considerably, most are made on either a unit price or fixed price basis in which we agree to do the work for a price per unit of work performed (unit price) or for a fixed amount for the entire project (fixed price). We also perform services on a cost plus or time and materials basis. We complete most installation projects within one year, while we frequently provide maintenance and repair work under open ended, unit price master service agreements which are renewable annually. We generally recognize revenue when services are performed except when work is being performed under fixed price contracts. We typically record revenues from fixed price contracts on a percentage of completion basis, using the cost to cost method based on the percentage of total costs incurred to date in proportion to total estimated costs to complete the contract. Some of our customers require us to post performance and payment bonds upon execution of the contract, depending upon the nature of the work to be performed. Our fixed price contracts often include payment provisions pursuant to which the customer withholds a 5% to 10% retainage from each progress payment and remits the retainage to us upon completion and approval of the work. Cost of services consists primarily of salaries, wages and benefits to employees, depreciation, fuel and other vehicle expenses, equipment rentals, subcontracted services, insurance, facilities expenses, materials and parts and supplies. Our gross margin, which is gross profit expressed as a percentage of revenues, is typically higher on projects where labor, rather than materials, constitutes a greater portion of the cost of services. We can predict materials costs more accurately than labor costs. Therefore, to compensate for the potential variability of labor costs, we seek to maintain higher margins on labor intensive projects. Certain of our subsidiaries were previously subject to deductibles ranging from $100,000 to $1,000,000 for workers compensation insurance and, as of August 1, 2000, we have a deductible of $500,000 per occurrence related to 17 workers compensation, employers liability, automobile and general liability claims. In addition, effective January 1, 2002, we consolidated the various non union employee related health care benefits plans that existed at certain of our subsidiaries into one corporate plan which is subject to a deductible of $250,000 per claimant per year. Fluctuations in insurance accruals related to these deductibles could have an impact on operating margins in the period in which such adjustments are made. Due in part to the events of September 11, 2001, the insurance market for large risks, including specialty service contractors, continues to experience increasing premiums. This increased pricing pressure may cause us to increase our deductibles to defray certain of these costs. We continue to build long term relationships with our insurance carriers to minimize such market swings. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and related benefits to management, administrative salaries and benefits, marketing, office rent and utilities, communications, professional fees and bad debt expense. Selling, general and administrative expenses can be impacted by our customers inability to pay for services performed. Through December 31, 2001, we have recorded goodwill of $1.1 billion, which primarily equals the excess amount we have paid for businesses over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of such businesses acquired using the purchase method of accounting. Through December 31, 2001, we amortized this goodwill over its estimated useful life of 40 years as a non cash charge to operating income. We are unable to deduct the majority of amortized goodwill from our income for tax purposes. SEASONALITY; FLUCTUATIONS OF QUARTERLY RESULTS Our results of operations can be subject to seasonal variations. During the winter months, demand for new projects and new maintenance service arrangements may be lower due to reduced construction activity. However, demand for repair and maintenance services attributable to damage caused by inclement weather during the winter months may partially offset the loss of revenues from lower demand for new projects and new maintenance service arrangements. Additionally, our industry can be highly cyclical. As a result, our volume of business may be adversely affected by declines in new projects in various geographic regions in the U.S. Typically, we experience lower gross and operating margins during the winter months. The timing of acquisitions, variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter, the timing and magnitude of acquisition assimilation costs, regional economic conditions and our customers access to capital may also materially affect quarterly results. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other quarter or for the entire year. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of December 31, 2001, we had cash and cash equivalents of $6.3 million, working capital of $335.6 million and long term debt of $500.3 million, net of current maturities. Our long term debt balance at that date included borrowings of $109.3 million under our credit facility, $210.0 million of senior secured notes, $172.5 million of convertible subordinated notes and $8.5 million of other debt. During the year ended December 31, 2001, operating activities provided net cash to us of $210.0 million. Operating cash flow before changes in working capital and other operating accounts totaled $196.6 million. Net changes in working capital and other operating accounts generated $13.4 million, net in 2001, primarily as a result of management focus on working capital and a general business slowdown. Cash flow from operations is primarily influenced by demand for our services, operating margins and the type of services we provide. Acquisitions created significant changes in our working capital accounts throughout the year and such accounts are not comparable to prior periods. We used net cash in investing activities of $221.8 million, including $119.5 million used for the purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired and $85.0 million used for additions of property and equipment. Financing activities provided net cash of $0.8 million, resulting primarily from $16.5 million in net borrowings under our credit facility and $8.7 million from the issuance of stock under the employee stock purchase plan, partially offset by $15.0 million in net repayments of long term debt and $15.3 million used for the purchase of treasury stock. 18 We currently have a $350.0 million credit facility with 14 participating banks. The credit facility is secured by a pledge of all of the capital stock of our operating subsidiaries and the majority of our assets. We use the credit facility to provide funds to be used for working capital, to finance acquisitions and for other general corporate purposes. Amounts borrowed under the credit facility bear interest at a rate equal to either (a) LIBOR plus 1.00% to 2.00%, as determined by the ratio of our total funded debt to EBITDA (as defined in the credit facility) or (b) the banks prime rate plus up to 0.25%, as determined by the ratio of our total funded debt to EBITDA. We pay commitment fees of 0.25% to 0.50% (based on the ratio of our total funded debt to EBITDA) on any unused borrowing capacity under the credit facility. Our subsidiaries guarantee repayment of all amounts due under the credit facility, and the credit facility restricts pledges of material assets. We agreed to usual and customary covenants for a credit facility of this nature, including a prohibition on the payment of dividends on common stock, certain financial ratios and indebtedness covenants and a requirement to obtain the consent of the lenders for acquisitions exceeding a certain level of cash consideration. As of March 20, 2002, we had borrowing availability of $199.6 million under the credit facility. The weighted average borrowing rate on the credit facility for the year ended December 31, 2001 was 5.55%. As of December 31, 2001, we had $210.0 million of senior secured notes which have maturities ranging from four to nine years with a weighted average interest rate of 8.41% and, pursuant to an intercreditor agreement, rank equally in right of repayment with indebtedness under our credit facility. The senior secured notes have financial covenants similar to those under the credit facility. As of December 31, 2001, we had $172.5 million in convertible subordinated notes that bear interest at 4.0% per year and are convertible into shares of our common stock at a price of $54.53 per share, subject to adjustment as a result of certain events. The convertible subordinated notes require semi annual interest payments until the notes mature on July 1, 2007. We have the option to redeem some or all of the convertible subordinated notes beginning July 3, 2003 at specified redemption prices, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If certain fundamental changes occur, as described in the indenture under which we issued the convertible subordinated notes, holders of the convertible subordinated notes may require us to purchase all or part of their notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. We have specifically provided for the possibility of a non cash goodwill impairment charge in our credit facility resulting from the adoption of SFAS No. 142 and, accordingly, expect no impact on our credit facility as a result of this charge. We are currently seeking to avoid any potential covenant violations through a similar amendment with holders of our senior secured notes and expect the completion of an amendment prior to the occurrence of any covenant violation. A goodwill impairment charge will not violate any covenants in our convertible subordinated notes. Other Commitments. As is common in our industry, we have entered into certain off balance sheet arrangements in the ordinary course of business that result in risks not directly reflected in our balance sheets. Our significant off balance sheet transactions include liabilities associated with non cancelable operating leases, letter of credit obligations and surety guarantees. We have not engaged in any off balance sheet financing arrangements through special purpose entities. We enter into non cancelable operating leases for many of our facility, vehicle and equipment needs. These leases allow us to conserve cash by paying a monthly lease rental fee for use of facilities, vehicles and equipment rather than purchasing them. At the end of the lease, we have no further obligation to the lessor. We may decide to cancel or terminate a lease before the end of its term. Typically we are liable to the lessor for the remaining lease payments under the term of the lease. Some customers require us to post letters of credit to guarantee performance under our contracts and to ensure payment to our subcontractors and vendors under those contracts. Certain of our vendors also require letters of credit to ensure reimbursement for amounts they are disbursing on behalf of us, such as to beneficiaries under our self funded insurance programs. Such letters of credit are generally issued by a bank or similar financial institution. The letter of credit commits the issuer to pay specified amounts to the holder of the letter of credit if the holder demonstrates that we have failed to perform specified actions. If this were to occur, we would be required to reimburse the issuer of the letter of credit. Depending on the circumstances of such a reimbursement, we may also have to record a charge to earnings for the reimbursement. To date we 19 have not had a claim made against a letter of credit that resulted in payments by the issuer of the letter of credit or by us and do not believe that it is likely that any claims will be made under a letter of credit in the foreseeable future. Many customers, particularly in connection with new construction, require us to post performance and payment bonds issued by a financial institution known as a surety. These bonds provide a guarantee to the customer that we will perform under the terms of a contract and that we will pay subcontractors and vendors. If we fail to perform under a contract or to pay subcontractors and vendors, the customer may demand that the surety make payments or provide services under the bond. We must reimburse the surety for any expenses or outlays it incurs. To date, we have not had any significant reimbursements to our surety for bond related costs. We believe that it is unlikely that we will have to fund claims under our surety arrangements in the foreseeable future. The Companys future contractual obligations, including interest under capital leases, are as follows (in thousands): LESS THAN TOTAL ONE YEAR 2003 2004 2005 2006 THEREAFTER Long term debt obligations including capital leases...... $508,381 $ 8,067 $ 4,798 $111,202 $103,882 $5,326 $275,106 Operating lease obligations..... $ 65,380 $30,772 $14,122 $ 8,281 $ 6,680 $2,915 $ 2,610 The Company also had $46.4 million in letters of credit outstanding under our credit facility primarily to secure obligations under our casualty insurance program at year end. While not actual borrowings, letters of credit do reflect potential liabilities under our credit facility and therefore are treated as a use of borrowing capacity under our credit facility. These are irrevocable stand by letters of credit with maturities expiring at various times throughout 2002. Upon maturity, it is expected that the majority of these letters of credit will be renewed for subsequent one year periods. Borrowing availability under our credit facility was $194.3 million as of December 31, 2001. Stock Repurchase Plan. Our board of directors has authorized a Stock Repurchase Plan under which up to $75.0 million of our common stock may be repurchased. Under the Stock Repurchase Plan, we may conduct purchases through open market transactions in accordance with applicable securities laws. During 2001, we purchased 986,000 shares of common stock for approximately $15.3 million. The amount of shares purchased and the timing of any future purchases will be based on a number of factors, including the market price of the stock, market conditions and as our management deems appropriate. Stock Employee Compensation Trust. On March 13, 2002, our board of directors approved the creation of a SECT to fund certain of our future employee benefit obligations using our common stock. The SECT was established by selling 8.0 million shares of our common stock, including the 986,000 shares we purchased during 2001 pursuant to our Stock Repurchase Plan, to the SECT in exchange for a promissory note plus an amount equal to the aggregate par value of the shares. The SECT is a trust that holds shares of our common stock to be used to fund our obligations during the term of the trust in respect of certain benefit plans. The SECT will release the shares over 15 years, the life of the trust, as the note is paid down through contributions by us to satisfy certain benefit requirements of our benefit plans. In addition, we believe that the SECT will reduce our cash obligations to fund these programs and provide us with a pre determined method to increase our equity base over time, which we believe will have a positive impact on our credit ratios. We will recognize compensation expense for certain shares released based on the fair value of such shares as they are released from the SECT. Unallocated shares held by the SECT will not be included in calculating our earnings per share. In all matters submitted to our stockholders for a vote or any tender offers made to our stockholders, the unallocated shares in the SECT will be voted or tendered based on the direction of the participants in our broad based Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Litigation. On November 28, 2001, Aquila filed an arbitration demand against us with the Kansas City, Missouri office of the American Arbitration Association. In its demand, Aquila alleged that the amendment to our stockholder rights plan adopted by our board of directors on November 15, 2001, and subsequently ratified 20 and reauthorized by a committee of our board of directors, violated the terms of our 1999 securities purchase agreement with Aquila. In its demand, Aquila seeks (i) damages which may occur if the price of our shares rises during the period in which the rights plan amendment is in effect, (ii) a declaratory judgment that the rights plan amendment is void, and (iii) an order requiring us to take all necessary steps to amend our rights plan to allow Aquila to acquire up to 49% of our shares on a fully diluted basis without any economic penalty. The arbitration proceeding is in the discovery stage and no prediction can be made as to the probable outcome of the proceeding at this time or as to the amount, if any, in damages we may be found to owe. In addition, defense fees will be incurred associated with this case and other litigation with Aquila and no prediction can be made as to the range of these fees. In addition, we are from time to time a party to other litigation or administrative proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. We do not believe that any of these other proceedings, separately or in the aggregate would, in the opinion of management, be expected to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. Proxy Solicitation. On February 8, 2002, Aquila announced its intention to conduct a proxy solicitation to replace members of our board of directors with a slate of its own nominees. We intend to oppose the Aquila proxy contest. The proxy contest has resulted in, and will continue to result in, the incurrence of substantial fees and no prediction can be made as to the total amount of these fees. Change of Control. We entered into new employment agreements with certain employees, as of March 13, 2002, which become effective upon a change of control (as defined in the new employment agreements) of Quanta. The new employment agreements supplemented existing employment agreements already in effect. The new employment agreements provide that, following a change of control, if we terminate the employees employment without cause (as defined in the new employment agreements), the employee terminates employment for good reason (as defined in the new employment agreements), or the employees employment terminates due to death or disability, we will pay certain amounts to the employee, which may vary with the level of the employees responsibility and the terms of the employees prior employment arrangements. In addition, in the case of certain senior executives, these payments would also be due if the employee terminates his or her employment within the 30 day window period commencing six months after the change in control. In addition, an event of default could occur under our credit facility and senior secured notes in the event that Aquila prevails in its recently announced proxy contest for control of our board of directors. No such event of default provision exists under our convertible subordinated notes. We cannot be certain that the affected lenders and note holders would waive such an event of default or that we or Aquila would be able to refinance any defaulted indebtedness. Acquisitions. During 2001, we acquired nine companies for an aggregate consideration of 2.4 million shares of common stock and $119.9 million in cash. The cash portion of such consideration was provided by proceeds from borrowings under the credit facility. We anticipate that our cash flow from operations and our credit facility will provide sufficient cash to enable us to meet our working capital needs, debt service requirements and planned capital expenditures for property and equipment for at least the next 12 months. However, if companies we wish to acquire are unwilling to accept our common stock as part of the consideration for the sale of their businesses, we could be required to utilize more cash to complete acquisitions. If sufficient funds were not available from operating cash flow or through borrowings under the credit facility, we may be required to seek additional financing through the public or private sale of equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance that we could secure such financing if and when we need it or on terms we would deem acceptable. Concentration of Credit Risk. The Company grants credit, generally without collateral, to its customers, which include electric power and gas companies, telecommunications and cable television system operators, governmental entities, general contractors, builders and owners and managers of commercial and industrial properties located primarily in the United States. Consequently, the Company is subject to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors throughout the United States. However, the Company generally is entitled to payment for work performed and has certain lien rights on that work and concentrations 21 of credit risk are limited due to the diversity of the Companys customer base. Further, management believes that its contract acceptance, billing and collection policies are adequate to minimize the potential credit risk. No customer accounted for more than 10% of accounts receivable or revenues as of or during the years ended December 31, 1999, 2000 or 2001. Related Party Transactions. In the normal course of business, we from time to time enter into transactions with related parties. These transactions typically take the form of network service work for Aquila or facility leases with prior owners. See additional discussion in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. INFLATION Due to relatively low levels of inflation experienced during the years ended December 31, 1999, 2000 and 2001, inflation did not have a significant effect on our results. SIGNIFICANT BALANCE SHEET CHANGES Total assets increased approximately $171.0 million in 2001 compared to 2000. This increase is primarily due to the following: Goodwill, net increased $131.0 million resulting from acquisitions in 2001. Property and equipment, net increased $44.5 million due to expenditures for equipment necessary to perform contracts and equipment obtained through the acquisition of nine companies during 2001. Other assets, net increased $18.7 million due primarily to notes receivable from one of our customers. We have agreed to long term payment terms while this customer is pursuing alternative financing. The receivables are partially secured and bear interest at 9% per year. At December 31, 2001, the total amount due under this arrangement was $27.6 million, with $23.4 million classified as non current. Prepaid expenses and other current assets increased $12.2 million, primarily as a result of $9.7 million of current deferred tax assets associated with various expenses that are not currently deductible. The above increases were partially offset by decreased accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts of $29.4 million that resulted from a provision of $20.2 million to allow for uncollectible receivables associated with the continued decline in the financial strength of certain customers in the telecommunications industry, continued emphasis on working capital management and lower levels of revenue during the fourth quarter of 2001. In 2001, total liabilities increased approximately $33.2 million and stockholders equity increased approximately $137.8 million. These increases were primarily due to the following: Stockholders equity increased $137.8 million during 2001. This was primarily the result of the issuance of approximately $49.5 million in shares of common stock for the acquisition of purchased companies, the issuance of approximately $14.7 million in shares of common stock pursuant to the employee stock purchase plan and stock option exercises, and net income of $84.8 million. These increases were partially offset by $15.3 million of purchases of common stock under the Stock Repurchase Plan. Deferred income taxes and other non current liabilities increased $29.0 million due to an increase of $21.8 million in deferred income tax liabilities resulting primarily from timing differences associated with property, equipment and goodwill and an increase of $8.7 million in self insurance accruals related to claims that are not expected to be settled during 2002. 22 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table sets forth selected statements of operations data and such data as a percentage of revenues for the years indicated (dollars in thousands): YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999 2000 2001 Revenues.............................. $925,654 100.0% $1,793,301 100.0% $2,014,877 100.0% Cost of services (including depreciation)....................... 711,353 76.8 1,379,204 76.9 1,601,039 79.5 Gross profit........................ 214,301 23.2 414,097 23.1 413,838 20.5 Selling, general and administrative expenses............................ 80,132 8.7 143,564 8.0 194,575 9.6 Merger and special charges............ 6,574 0.7 28,566 1.6 0.0 Goodwill amortization................. 10,902 1.2 19,805 1.1 25,998 1.3 Income from operations.............. 116,693 12.6 222,162 12.4 193,265 9.6 Interest expense...................... (15,184) (1.6) (25,708) (1.4) (36,072) (1.8) Other income (expense), net........... 1,429 0.1 2,597 0.1 (227) 0.0 Income before income tax provision.... 102,938 11.1 199,051 11.1 156,966 7.8 Provision for income taxes............ 48,999 5.3 93,328 5.2 71,200 3.5 Net income.......................... $ 53,939 5.8% $ 105,723 5.9% $ 85,766 4.3% YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 Revenues. Revenues increased $221.6 million, or 12.4%, to $2.01 billion for the year ended December 31, 2001. This increase was attributable to strong growth in electric power and gas revenues as a result of increased outsourcing and deregulation, a full year of contributed revenues in 2001 for those companies acquired in 2000 and revenues of $42.3 million from platform companies acquired in 2001 which continued to exist as separate reporting subsidiaries. The increase was partially offset by decreased revenues from telecommunications customers due in part to the continued inability of certain of the customers to raise new capital and the overall downturn in the national economy. Gross profit. Gross profit decreased $0.3 million to $413.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Gross margin decreased from 23.1% for the year ended December 31, 2000 to 20.5% for the year ended December 31, 2001. The decrease in gross margin resulted from lower margins on work performed for telecommunications customers due to increased pricing pressures, lower asset utilization and the economic factors noted above, partially offset by higher margins received on work performed for the electric power and gas customers. Selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $51.0 million, or 35.5%, to $194.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2001 include $20.5 million in charges consisting of: a charge of $16.2 million to provide allowances for accounts receivable risk associated with the continued decline in the financial strength of certain customers in the telecommunications industry, $3.2 million in charges associated with the realignment of field personnel and discontinuance of negotiations regarding the acquisition of certain telecommunications contractors and $1.1 million in costs associated with negotiations with Aquila. In addition, $4.2 million of the increase was attributable to the platform companies we acquired subsequent to December 31, 2000. Selling, general and administrative expenses also included a full period of costs in 2001 associated with those companies acquired during 2000. The remainder of the increase was attributable to tuck in acquisitions and the continued establishment of infrastructure to facilitate our growth and to integrate our acquired businesses. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses increased due to the items noted above. Merger and special charges. In December 2000, we agreed to conclude our obligations under the management services agreement with Aquila in exchange for a one time payment to Aquila of approximately $28.6 million. 23 Interest expense. Interest expense increased $10.4 million, or 40.3%, to $36.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, due to higher average levels of debt experienced during 2001. Provision for income taxes. The provision for income taxes was $71.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, with an effective tax rate of 45.4% compared to $93.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2000 and an effective tax rate of 46.9%. In 2000, the provision reflected a portion of the merger and special charges for which no tax benefit had been provided. Net income. Net income decreased $20.0 million, or 18.9%, to $85.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, compared to $105.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Diluted earnings per share before charges. For the year ended December 31, 2001, we incurred $20.5 million in charges, consisting of $16.2 million to provide allowances for certain accounts receivable, $3.2 million in charges associated with the realignment of field personnel and certain acquisition costs and $1.1 million in costs associated with negotiations with Aquila. Diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2001, excluding these charges and the tax related impacts of these charges, was $1.27. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999 Revenues. Revenues increased $867.6 million, or 93.7%, to $1.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2000. This increase was attributable to strong growth in key business areas as a result of greater demand for bandwidth, increased outsourcing, deregulation and industry convergence, a full year of contributed revenues in 2000 for those companies acquired in 1999, revenues of $226.5 million from platform companies acquired in 2000 which continued to exist as separate reporting subsidiaries, as well as contributed revenues from tuck in acquisitions whose operations were absorbed into other operating subsidiaries. Gross profit. Gross profit increased $199.8 million, or 93.2%, to $414.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2000 as a result of higher revenues. Gross margin decreased slightly from 23.2% for the year ended December 31, 1999 to 23.1% for the year ended December 31, 2000. This decrease in gross margin resulted from lower margins on work performed for gas transmission and inside electrical customers. Selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $63.4 million, or 79.2%, to $143.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. This increase was attributable to a full year of costs in 2000 associated with companies acquired in 1999, $15.3 million of additional selling, general and administrative expenses attributable to the platform companies we acquired in 2000 and the continued establishment of infrastructure to facilitate our growth and integrate our acquired businesses. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased due to better absorption associated with a higher level of revenues. Merger and special charges. Merger and special charges increased $22.0 million, or 334.5%, to $28.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. In December 2000, we agreed to conclude our obligations under the management services agreement with Aquila in exchange for a one time payment to Aquila of approximately $28.6 million. Merger and special charges for the year ended December 31, 1999 included $5.3 million of non cash compensation charges, which were related to the allocation of shares of common stock to participants in an employee stock ownership plan associated with one of the companies we acquired in a pooling transaction, and $1.1 million of related excise tax charges. Interest expense. Interest expense increased $10.5 million, or 69.3%, to $25.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, due to higher levels of debt resulting from the acquisitions of the companies we purchased in 2000. We also borrowed funds under our credit facility for equipment purchases and other operating activities to support higher levels of revenue. In addition, interest expense increased due to higher interest rates under our credit facility during 2000 and from our issuance of the senior secured notes in March 2000. These increases were partially offset by lower interest rates on the convertible subordinated notes issued in July 2000. Provision for income taxes. The provision for income taxes was $93.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, with an effective tax rate of 46.9% compared to $49.0 million for the year ended 24 December 31, 1999 and an effective tax rate of 47.6%. In 2000, the provision reflected a portion of the merger and special charges for which no tax benefit had been provided. In 1999, the provision reflected the non deductibility of the merger and special charges and a non cash non recurring tax charge of $677,000 as a result of a change in the tax status of a company acquired in a pooling of interest transaction from an S corporation to a C corporation. Net income. Net income increased $51.8 million, or 96.0%, to $105.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, compared to $53.9 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. Diluted earnings per share before charges. In December 2000, the Company agreed to conclude its obligations under its management services agreement with Aquila in exchange for a one time payment to Aquila of approximately $28.6 million. Diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2000 excluding this charge and the related tax impact was $1.72. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In July 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations." SFAS No. 141 requires that all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001, be accounted for using the purchase method. The FASB also issued SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." SFAS No. 142 requires that goodwill be assessed at least annually for impairment by applying a fair value based test. Goodwill will no longer be subject to amortization over its estimated useful life. In addition, acquired intangible assets are required to be recognized and amortized over their useful lives if the benefit of the asset is based on contractual or legal rights. While most provisions of SFAS No. 142 are effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2002, goodwill and intangible assets acquired after June 30, 2001, are subject immediately to the non amortization and amortization provisions of the statement, respectively. At December 31, 2001, our net goodwill was $1.037 billion and annual amortization of such goodwill was approximately $26 million. Based on a preliminary review of the new standard, we believe that we will record a non cash goodwill impairment charge upon adoption and that the amount of such charge will be material in relation to our unamortized goodwill balance. Such charge, however, will not impact cash flow or operating income but will be reflected as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. We have specifically provided for the possibility of a non cash goodwill impairment charge in our credit facility resulting from the adoption of SFAS No. 142, and accordingly, expect no impact on our credit facility as a result of this charge. We are currently seeking to avoid any potential covenant violations through a similar amendment with holders of our senior secured notes and expect the completion of an amendment prior to the occurrence of any covenant violation. A goodwill impairment charge will not violate any covenants in our convertible subordinated notes. In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets." SFAS No. 144 supersedes SFAS No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to be Disposed Of," and the accounting and reporting provisions of APB Opinion 30. SFAS No. 144 addresses the financial accounting and reporting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets and establishes criteria for determining when a long lived asset is held for sale. We are required to and will adopt SFAS No. 144 on January 1, 2002, and believe that the adoption will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The Company evaluates its estimates on an ongoing basis, based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from those 25 estimates. We believe the following accounting policies, which are also described in Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: Accounts Receivable and Provision for Doubtful Accounts. As discussed in Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we provide an allowance for doubtful accounts when collection of an account receivable is considered doubtful. Inherent in the assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts are certain judgements and estimates including, among others, our customers access to capital, our customers willingness to pay, general economic conditions and the ongoing relationship with the customer. Goodwill. As stated in Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under New Accounting Pronouncements, FASB Statement No. 142 provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives will not be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives should continue to be amortized over their useful lives. Statement No. 142 also provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other nonamortized intangible assets for impairment. The Statement requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions in order to allocate goodwill to reporting units and to determine the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets, as compared to our accounting policy for the assessment of goodwill impairment in 2001, which was based on an undiscounted cash flow model. Revenue Recognition. We typically record revenues from fixed price contracts on a percentage of completion basis, using the cost to cost method based on the percentage of total costs incurred to date in proportion to total estimated costs to complete the contract. Changes in job performance, job conditions and final contract settlements, among others, are the factors that influence the assessment of the total estimated costs to complete these contracts. Self Insurance. We are insured for workers compensation, employers liability, auto liability and general liability claims, subject to a deductible of $500,000 per accident or occurrence. In addition, effective January 1, 2002, we consolidated the various non union employee related health care benefits plans that existed at certain of its subsidiaries into one corporate plan which is subject to a deductible of $250,000 per claimant per year. Losses up to the deductible amounts are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported. However, insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends and management believes such accruals to be adequate. OUTLOOK The following statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward looking, and actual results may differ materially. We expect continued growth and demand for our services from our utility and gas customers throughout 2002. We expect continued weakness in demand for our services from our telecommunications customers and relatively level demand for our services from our cable television and ancillary customers. The economic conditions prevalent in 2001 impacted our ability to grow at historical levels and a continued economic downturn may lead to less demand for our services. We intend to continue to emphasize internal growth, although we also plan to continue to selectively pursue acquisitions of profitable companies with strong management teams and good reputations to broaden our customer base, expand our geographic area of operation and grow our portfolio of services. We regularly evaluate potential acquisition opportunities, but we are not currently engaged in any negotiations to make any material acquisitions. 26 FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Except for the historical financial information contained in this report, statements made or incorporated by reference in this report may be considered "forward looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward looking statements include, without limitation, declarations regarding our intent, belief or current expectations, statements regarding the future results of acquired companies and our gross margins and any other statement that may project, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements. Such statements may contain the words "expect," "intend," "plan," "anticipate," "estimate," "believe," "will be," "will continue," "will likely result" and similar expressions. Statements in this report that contain forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, discussions regarding future market conditions and the effect of such conditions on our future results of operations (see "Business Industry Overview," " Strategy" and " Customers, Strategic Alliances and Preferred Provider Relationships") and future uses of and requirements for financial resources including, but not limited to, expenditures related to future acquisitions (see " Liquidity and Capital Resources"). Any such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, general economic and business conditions, the pace and nature of technological change, our ability to integrate companies we acquire, our ability to generate internal growth, competition, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and ability to raise capital, the outcome of our proxy contest with Aquila and various other matters, many of which are beyond our control. Actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward looking statements. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward looking statements are those discussed in "Business Risk Factors" in this report. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward looking statements. We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward looking statement to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward looking statement is based. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We are exposed to market risk primarily related to potential adverse changes in interest rates and, to a certain extent, commodity prices, as discussed below. Management does not generally use derivative financial instruments for trading or to speculate on changes in interest rates or commodity prices. As of December 31, 2001, however, we had one derivative contract outstanding which related to anticipated exposure in the price of gas. We are exposed to credit risk in the event of non performance by the derivative counterparty. However, we monitor our derivative position by regularly evaluating our position and the credit worthiness of the counterparty, which we consider credit worthy at December 31, 2001. Management is actively involved in monitoring exposure to market risk and continues to develop and utilize appropriate risk management techniques. We are not exposed to any other significant market risks, foreign currency exchange risk or interest rate risk from the use of derivative financial instruments. The sensitivity analyses below, which hypothetically illustrates our potential market risk exposure, estimates the effects of hypothetical sudden and sustained changes in the applicable market conditions on 2001 earnings. The sensitivity analyses presented do not consider any additional actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to such changes. The hypothetical changes and assumptions may be different from what actually occurs in the future. Interest Rates. As of December 31, 2001, we had no derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk. As such, we are exposed to earnings and fair value risk due to changes in interest rates with respect to our long term obligations. As of December 31, 2001, approximately 21.5% of our long term obligations were floating rate obligations. As of December 31, 2001, the fair value of our variable rate debt of $109.3 million approximated book value, and the fair value of our fixed rate debt of $399.0 million was approximately $357.1 million based upon discounted future cash flows using incremental borrowing rates and current market prices. The detrimental effect on our pretax earnings of a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in both variable and fixed interest rates would be approximately $0.5 million and $2.0 million, respectively. 27 Commodity Price Exposure. In October 2001, we entered into a forward purchase contract with settlements through 2006, in order to secure pricing on anticipated gas requirements related to a project in process at December 31, 2001. The objective is to mitigate the variability in the price of gas by fixing the price we will have to pay to our counterparty. As of December 31, 2001, the fair value of this derivative was $0.4 million and recorded as a liability on the consolidated balance sheet. As of March 29, 2001, we entered into a sub services agreement with our customer whereby the customer assumed all liabilities associated with this contract. We had no derivative instruments outstanding as of or during the year ended December 31, 2000. 28 
 
