Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 hereof, a significant portion of our revenues are recognized using the percentage of completion method of accounting, utilizing the cost to cost method. This method is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. This accounting method is generally accepted for fixed price contracts. The percentage of completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. Contract losses are recognized in full when determined, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. Further, a substantial portion of our contracts contain various cost and performance incentives. Penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally occurs during the latter stages of the contract. In addition, we record cost recovery claims when we believe recovery is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. Actual collection of claims could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. We may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth. Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: expand the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving network needs; attract new customers; increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; hire and retain qualified employees; and expand geographically, including internationally. In addition, our customers may delay or reduce the number or size of projects available to us due to their inability to obtain capital or pay for services provided. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be successful or that we will be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. If we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve internal growth, expand our operations or grow our business. Our industry is highly competitive. Our industry is served by numerous small, owner operated private companies, a few public companies and several large regional companies. In addition, relatively few barriers prevent entry into some of our industries. As a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. Competition in the industry depends on a number of factors, including price. Certain of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures and, therefore, may be able to provide their services at lower rates than we are able to provide. In addition, some of our competitors have significant resources including financial, technical and marketing resources. We cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. Similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or 17 Table of Contents enhance our competitive position within our industry or maintain our customer base at current levels. We also may face competition from the in house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers. Electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television service providers usually employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services we do. We cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 may fail to result in increased spending on the electric power transmission infrastructure. Implementation of the Energy Act is still subject to considerable fiscal and regulatory uncertainty. Regulations implementing the components of the Energy Act that may affect demand for our services have only recently been finalized and in some cases remain subject to challenge before the Department of Energy and in the federal courts. Accordingly, the effect of these regulations, once finally implemented, is uncertain. As a result, the legislation may not result in increased spending on the electric power transmission infrastructure. Continued uncertainty regarding the implementation of the Energy Act may result in slower growth in demand for our services. Our business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. Our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. For instance, we may experience shortages of qualified journeyman linemen. In addition, we cannot be certain that our labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues. Our business growth could outpace the capability of our corporate management infrastructure. We cannot be certain that our infrastructure will be adequate to support our operations as they expand. Future growth also could impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. We cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain such additional managers and executives. To the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan. Factors beyond our control may affect our ability to successfully execute our acquisition strategy, which may have an adverse impact on our growth strategy. Our business strategy includes expanding our presence in the industries we serve through strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. We expect to face competition for acquisition opportunities, and some of our competitors may have access to financing on more favorable terms than us or have greater financial resources. This competition may limit our acquisition opportunities and our ability to grow through acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive or possibly non accretive to us. Acquisitions that we may pursue may also involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence or the issuance of securities. Any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unsuccessful at integrating companies that either we have acquired or that we may acquire in the future. As a part of our business strategy, we have acquired, and seek to acquire in the future, companies that complement or enhance our business. However, we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully integrate each of these companies with our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. If we do not implement proper overall business controls, our decentralized 18 Table of Contents operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices at the companies we acquire and our overall profitability could be adversely affected. Integrating our acquired companies involves a number of special risks which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including: failure of acquired companies to achieve the results we expect; diversion of our managements attention from operational and other matters; difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; inability to retain key personnel of acquired companies; risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; and potential disruptions of our business. If one of our acquired companies suffers customer dissatisfaction or performance problems, the reputation of our entire company could suffer. Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairments. When we acquire a business, we record an asset called goodwill equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. For example, in connection with the Merger, we recorded approximately $989.8 million in goodwill and $158.8 million of intangible assets based on the application of purchase accounting. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142 provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead be tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be amortized over their useful lives. SFAS No. 142 provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non amortized intangible assets for impairment. SFAS No. 142 requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. Absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. As part of our 2006 annual test for goodwill impairment, goodwill in the amount of $56.8 million was written off as a non cash operating expense associated with a decrease in the expected future demand for the services of one of our businesses, which has historically served the cable television industry. Any future impairments, including impairments of the goodwill or intangible assets recorded in connection with the Merger, would negatively impact our results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized. Our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, several estimates and assumptions are used by management in determining the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or is not capable of being readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. In some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. Estimates are primarily used in our assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives of property and equipment, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill and long lived asset impairments, self insured claims liabilities, forfeiture estimates relating to stock based compensation, revenue recognition under percentage of completion accounting and provision for income taxes. Actual results for all 19 Table of Contents estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. During the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings during the ordinary course of our business. These actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses or injunctive or declaratory relief. In addition, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide and actions we take under our contracts with them, and, in some instances, we may be allocated risk through our contract terms for actions by our customers or other third parties. Because our services in certain instances may be integral to the operation and performance of our customers infrastructure, we may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we work on, even if our services are not the cause of such failures, and we could be subject to civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage, personal injury or system failure. The outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of managements attention to the business. Payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our reputation, liquidity and results of operations. We are self insured against potential liabilities. Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to employers liability, general liability, automobile and workers compensation claims, those policies are subject to deductibles ranging from $1.0 million to $3.0 million per occurrence depending on the insurance policy. We are primarily self insured for all claims that do not exceed the amount of the applicable deductible. Additionally, we are subject to an annual cumulative aggregate liability of up to $1.0 million on workers compensation claims in excess of $2.0 million per occurrence. We also have an employee health care benefits plan for employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, which was subject to a deductible of $250,000 per claimant per year until December 31, 2007. The deductible for employee health care benefits was increased to $350,000 per claimant per year effective January 1, 2008. Effective upon the Merger, InfraSource became insured under Quantas property and casualty insurance program. Previously, InfraSource was insured for workers compensation, general liability and employers liability, each subject to a deductible of $0.75 million per occurrence. InfraSource was also insured for auto liability, subject to a deductible of $0.5 million per occurrence. InfraSource continued to operate its own health plan for employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements through December 31, 2007, which was subject to a deductible of $150,000 per claimant per year. Losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third party actuaries. However, insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends and management believes such accruals to be adequate. If we were to experience insurance claims or costs significantly above our estimates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected in a given period. Our casualty insurance carrier for prior periods is experiencing financial distress, which may require us to make payments for losses that otherwise would be insured. Our casualty insurance carrier for the policy periods from August 1, 2000 to February 28, 2003 is experiencing financial distress, but is currently paying valid claims. In the event that this insurers financial situation deteriorates, we may be required to pay certain obligations that otherwise would have been paid by 20 Table of Contents this insurer. We estimate that the total future claim amount that this insurer is currently obligated to pay on our behalf for the above mentioned policy periods is approximately $4.5 million; however, our estimate of the potential range of these future claim amounts is between $2.1 million and $7.8 million. The actual amounts ultimately paid by us related to these claims, if any, may vary materially from the above range and could be impacted by further claims development and the extent to which the insurer can not honor its obligations. In any event, we do not expect any failure by this insurer to honor its obligations to us to have a material adverse impact on our financial condition; however, the impact could be material to our results of operations or cash flow in a given period. We may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial impact relating to occupational health and safety matters. Our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. While we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. Although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered fatalities in the past and may suffer additional fatalities in the future. Claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities. In addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time, our customers could cancel our contracts and not award us future business. Our profitability and financial operations may be negatively affected by changes in, or interpretations of, existing state or federal telecommunications regulations or new regulations that could adversely affect our dark fiber leasing business. In connection with the Merger, we acquired InfraSources dark fiber leasing business. Many of the dark fiber customers benefit from the Universal Service E rate program, which was established by Congress in the 1996 Telecommunications Act and is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (the USAC) under the oversight of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). Under the E rate program, schools, libraries and certain health care facilities may receive subsidies for certain approved telecommunications services, internet access and internal connections. From time to time, bills have been introduced in Congress that would eliminate or curtail the E rate program. Passage of such actions by the FCC or USAC to further limit E rate subsidies could decrease the demand for telecommunications infrastructure service by certain customers. The telecommunications services we provide through our dark fiber leasing business are subject to regulation by the FCC, to the extent that they are interstate telecommunications services, and by state regulatory agencies, when wholly within a particular state. To remain eligible to provide services under the E rate program, we must maintain telecommunications authorizations in every state where we operate. Changes in federal or state regulations could reduce the profitability of our dark fiber leasing business. We could be subject to fines if the FCC or a state regulatory agency were to determine that any of our activities or positions are not in compliance with certain regulations. If the profitability of our dark fiber leasing business were to decline, or if this business were to become subject to fines, our profitability and results of operations could also be adversely affected. Our dark fiber leasing business is capital intensive and requires a substantial investment before returns can be realized. Our dark fiber leasing business requires substantial amounts of capital investment to build out new fiber networks. In 2008, our proposed capital expenditures for our dark fiber leasing business is approximately $85 million, with another $75 million estimated to be expended in 2009. Although we do not commit capital to new networks until we have a committed lease arrangement in place with at least one customer, we may not be able to recoup our initial investment in the network if that customer defaults on its commitment. Even if the customer does not default or we add additional customers to the network, we still may not realize a return on the capital investment for an extended period of time. Additionally, new or developing technologies 21 Table of Contents could negatively impact our dark fiber leasing business. If any of the above events occur, it could result in an impairment of our dark fiber network. Many of our contracts may be canceled on short notice or may not be renewed upon completion or expiration, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts in such events. We could experience a decrease in our revenue, net income and liquidity if any of the following occur: our customers cancel a significant number of contracts or contracts having significant value; we fail to win a significant number of our existing contracts upon re bid; we complete a significant number of non recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects; or we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent with any decrease in our revenue. Many of our customers may cancel our contracts on short notice, typically 30 90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. Certain of our customers assign work to us on a project by project basis under master service agreements. Under these agreements, our customers often have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. Our operations could decline significantly if the anticipated volume of work is not assigned to us. Many of our contracts, including our master service agreements, are opened to public bid at the expiration of their terms. There can be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that come up for re bid. Backlog may not be realized or may not result in profits. Backlog is difficult to determine with certainty. Customers often have no obligation under our contracts to assign or release work to us, and many contracts may be terminated on short notice. Reductions in backlog due to cancellation by a customer or for other reasons could significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive from contracts included in backlog. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. The backlog we obtain in connection with any companies we acquire, including InfraSource, may not be as large as we believed or may not result in the revenue or profits we expected. In addition, projects may remain in backlog for extended periods of time. Consequently, we cannot assure you as to our customers requirements or that our estimates are accurate. We extend credit to customers for purchases of our services, and in the past we have had, and in the future we may have, difficulty collecting receivables from major customers that have filed bankruptcy or are otherwise experiencing financial difficulties. We grant credit, generally without collateral, to our customers, which include electric power and gas companies, telecommunications and cable television system operators, governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of commercial and industrial properties located primarily in the United States. Consequently, we are subject to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors throughout the United States. In the past, our customers in the telecommunications business have experienced significant financial difficulties and in several instances have filed for bankruptcy. A number of our utility customers have also experienced business challenges in the past. If additional major customers file for bankruptcy or continue to experience financial difficulties, or if anticipated recoveries relating to receivables in existing bankruptcies or other workout situations fail to materialize, we could experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of current allowances provided. In addition, material changes in any of our customers revenues or cash flows could affect our ability to collect amounts due from them. 22 Table of Contents A portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds. We may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain the necessary surety bonds. Current or future market conditions, including losses incurred in the construction industry or as a result of large corporate bankruptcies, as well as changes in our suretys assessment of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety providers to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. These actions could be taken on short notice. If our surety providers were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more business that does not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. We may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all, which could affect our ability to bid for or work on future projects requiring financial assurances. We have also granted security interests in various of our assets to collateralize our obligations to the surety. Furthermore, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project by project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds. If we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity as a result of these or any other reasons, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects that would require bonding. The departure of key personnel could disrupt our business. We depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and on senior management of our operating units, including the businesses we acquire. Although we have entered into employment agreements with terms of one to three years with most of our executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our employees. Our unionized workforce could adversely affect our operations and our ability to complete future acquisitions. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 50% of our hourly employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Although the majority of these agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. Strikes or work stoppages would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could cause us to lose business and decrease our revenue. Additionally, these agreements may require us to participate with other companies in multi employer pension plans. To the extent those plans are underfunded, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Multi Employer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980, may subject us to substantial liabilities under those plans if we withdraw from them or they are terminated. Furthermore, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 added new funding rules generally applicable to plan years beginning after 2007 for multi employer plans that are classified as endangered, seriously endangered, or critical status. For a plan in critical status, additional required contributions and benefit reductions apply; however, we are not currently aware of any multi employer plan to which any of our subsidiaries contributes being in critical status. Our ability to complete future acquisitions could be adversely affected because of our union status for a variety of reasons. For instance, our union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements of a business we want to acquire and some businesses may not want to become affiliated with a union based company. Additionally, we may increase our exposure to withdrawal liabilities for underfunded multi employer pension plans to which an acquired company contributes. We may not be successful in continuing to meet the requirements of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 has introduced many requirements applicable to us regarding corporate governance and financial reporting, including the requirements for management to report on our internal 23 Table of Contents controls over financial reporting and for our independent registered public accounting firm to express an opinion over the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. During 2007, we continued actions to ensure our ability to comply with these requirements. As of December 31, 2007, our internal control over financial reporting was effective; however, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in future years. In accordance with SEC guidance, our assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include InfraSource, which will be included in future assessments. Failure to maintain effective internal controls or the identification of significant internal control deficiencies in InfraSource or other acquisitions made during 2007 or in the future could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock and our other publicly traded securities, the reduced ability to obtain financing, the loss of customers, penalties and additional expenditures to meet the requirements. Our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, PCBs, fuel storage and air quality. We perform work in many different types of underground environments. If the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil, some of which may contain pollutants. These objects may also rupture, resulting in the discharge of pollutants. In such circumstances, we may be liable for fines and damages, and we may be unable to obtain reimbursement from the parties providing the incorrect information. In addition, we perform directional drilling operations below certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies. Due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such directional drilling may cause a surface fracture, resulting in the release of subsurface materials. These subsurface materials may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. We also own and lease several facilities at which we store our equipment. Some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks which are above or below ground. If these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines. In addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could harm our financial condition and results of operations. In certain instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such cleanup and other obligations and liabilities that we believe are adequate to cover such obligations and liabilities. However, such third party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of our costs, and such unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or future obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our business operations or financial condition. Further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify or be indemnified for all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business. Risks associated with operating in international markets could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects. While only a small percentage of our revenue is currently derived from international markets, we hope to continue to expand the volume of services that we provide internationally. We presently conduct our international sales efforts in Canada, Mexico and selected countries overseas, but expect that the number of countries that we operate in could expand significantly over the next few years. Economic conditions, including those resulting from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts, may adversely affect the global economy, our customers and their ability to pay for our services. In addition, there are numerous risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including, but not limited to, potential instability in international markets, changes in regulatory requirements applicable to international operations, currency fluctuations in foreign countries, political, economic and social conditions in foreign countries and complex U.S. and foreign laws and treaties, including tax laws and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. These risks 24 Table of Contents could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers and could adversely affect our ability to operate our business profitably. Opportunities within the government arena could lead to increased governmental regulation applicable to us and unrecoverable start up costs. Most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. As we pursue increased opportunities in the government arena, managements focus associated with the start up and bidding process may be diverted away from other opportunities. If we were to be successful in being awarded government contracts, a significant amount of costs could be required before any revenues were realized from these contracts. In addition, as a government contractor, we would be subject to a number of procurement rules and other public sector liabilities, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a loss of business. Government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. Government agencies may review a contractors performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If government agencies determine through these audits or reviews that costs were improperly allocated to specific contracts, they will not reimburse the contractor for those costs or may require the contractor to refund previously reimbursed costs. If government agencies determine that we engaged in improper activity, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties. In addition, if the government were to even allege improper activity, we also could experience serious harm to our reputation. Many government contracts must be appropriated each year. If appropriations are not made in subsequent years we would not realize all of the potential revenues from any awarded contracts. The industries we serve are subject to rapid technological and structural changes that could reduce the demand for the services we provide. The electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television industries are undergoing rapid change as a result of technological advances that could, in certain cases, reduce the demand for our services, impair the value of our dark fiber network or otherwise negatively impact our business. New or developing technologies could displace the wireline systems used for voice, video and data transmissions, and improvements in existing technology may allow telecommunications and cable television companies to significantly improve their networks without physically upgrading them. We may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance desired growth and operations. If we cannot secure additional financing in the future on acceptable terms, we may be unable to support our growth strategy or future operations. We cannot readily predict the ability of certain customers to pay for past services or the timing, size and success of our acquisition efforts. Using cash for acquisitions limits our financial flexibility and makes us more likely to seek additional capital through future debt or equity financings. Our existing debt agreements contain significant restrictions on our operational and financial flexibility, including our ability to incur additional debt or conduct equity financings, and if we seek more debt we may have to agree to additional covenants that limit our operational and financial flexibility. When we seek additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be certain that additional debt or equity will be available to us on terms acceptable to us or at all. Furthermore, our credit facility has commitments from several banks. With the current turbulent credit markets resulting from, among other factors, losses from the sub prime mortgage crisis, banks may become more restrictive in their lending practices or unable to fund their commitments, which may limit our access to the capital needed to fund our growth and operations. Our convertible subordinated notes are presently convertible or may be convertible in the future, which, if converted, may result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders, lower prevailing market prices for our common stock or cause a significant cash outlay. As a result of our common stock satisfying the market price condition of our convertible subordinated notes, our 4.5% convertible subordinated notes due 2023 (4.5% Notes) were convertible at the option of the holder during each quarter of 2006 and 2007, and our 3.75% convertible subordinated notes due 2026 (3.75% Notes) were convertible at the option of the holders during the third quarter of 2007. During 2007, 25 Table of Contents $21,000 in aggregate principal amount of the 4.5% Notes were settled in cash upon conversion by the holders. The remaining 4.5% Notes are presently convertible at the option of each holder, and the conversion period will expire on March 31, 2008, but may continue or resume in future periods upon the satisfaction of the market price condition or other conditions. The 3.75% Notes are not presently convertible, but may resume convertibility in future periods upon satisfaction of the market price condition or other conditions. At any time on or after October 8, 2008, we may redeem for cash some or all of the 4.5% Notes at the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The holders of the 4.5% Notes that are called for redemption will have the right to convert all or some of their notes. We have the right to deliver shares of our common stock, cash or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock upon a conversion of the notes. The number of shares issuable upon conversion will be determined based on a conversion rate of approximately $11.14 per share for the 4.5% Notes and approximately $22.41 for the 3.75% Notes. In the event that all 4.5% Notes were converted for common stock, we would issue an aggregate of 24.2 million shares of our common stock. In the event that all 3.75% Notes were converted for common stock, we would issue an aggregate of 6.4 million shares of our common stock. The conversion of some or all of our 4.5% or 3.75% Notes into our common stock could cause substantial dilution to existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issued upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the possibility that the notes may be converted may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common stock. If we elect to satisfy the conversion obligation in cash, the amount of cash payable upon conversion of the notes will be determined by the product of (i) the number of shares issuable for the principal amount of the converted notes at a conversion rate of approximately $11.14 per share for the 4.5% Notes and approximately $22.41 per share for the 3.75% Notes and (ii) the average closing price of our common stock during a 20 day trading period following the holders unretracted election to convert the notes. To the extent we decide to pay cash to settle any conversions and the average closing price of our common stock during this period exceeds $11.14 per share for the 4.5% Notes or $22.41 for the 3.75% Notes, we would have to pay cash in excess of the principal amount of the notes being converted, which would result in the recording of a loss on extinguishment of debt. On October 1, 2008, the holders of the 4.5% Notes may elect repayment, which would require us to pay, in cash, the aggregate principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, of the notes held by the holders who elect repayment. As a result of the holders repayment right, we reclassified the $270 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of the 4.5% Notes into a current obligation in October 2007. Currently, our common stock price exceeds the conversion price. If our common stock price exceeds the conversion price in October 2008, it is not likely that any holder of the 4.5% Notes will elect repayment on October 1, 2008, but it is likely that if we were to redeem the 4.5% Notes on or after October 8, 2008, the holders of the notes subject to redemption would convert their notes. On the other hand, if our common stock price is below the conversion price, it is more likely that the holders of the 4.5% Notes would elect repayment or would not convert upon a redemption. We have not yet determined whether we will use cash on hand, issue equity or incur additional debt to fund our cash obligation if we are required to repay or determine to redeem the 4.5% Notes. We have also not yet determined whether we will settle any conversion obligation with respect to the 4.5% Notes in shares of our common stock, cash or a combination thereof. Certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult. The following provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as currently in effect, as well as our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law, could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or 26 Table of Contents prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock: our certificate of incorporation permits our Board of Directors to issue blank check preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our bylaws; our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to act by written consent; we are subject to provisions of Delaware law which prohibit us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date such stockholder became classified as an interested stockholder; and we have adopted a stockholder rights plan that could cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors or permitted by the stockholder rights plan. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. ITEM 2. Properties Facilities We lease our corporate headquarters in Houston, Texas and maintain facilities nationwide. Our facilities are used for offices, equipment yards, warehouses, storage and vehicle shops. As of December 31, 2007, we own 30 of the facilities we occupy, many of which are encumbered by our credit facility, and we lease the remainder. We believe that our existing facilities are sufficient for our current needs. Equipment We operate a nationwide fleet of owned and leased trucks and trailers, support vehicles and specialty construction equipment, such as backhoes, excavators, trenchers, generators, boring machines, cranes, wire pullers and tensioners, all of which are encumbered by our credit facility. As of December 31, 2007, the total size of the rolling stock fleet was approximately 25,000 units. Most of this fleet is serviced by our own mechanics who work at various maintenance sites and facilities. We believe that these vehicles generally are well maintained and adequate for our present operations. ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings InfraSource, certain of its officers and directors and various other parties, including David R. Helwig, the former chief executive officer of InfraSource who became a director of Quanta after completion of the Merger, are defendants in a lawsuit seeking unspecified damages filed in the State District Court in Harris County, Texas on September 21, 2005. The plaintiffs allege that the defendants violated their fiduciary duties and committed constructive fraud by failing to maximize shareholder value in connection with certain acquisitions by InfraSource Incorporated that closed in 1999 and 2000 and the acquisition of InfraSource Incorporated by InfraSource in 2003 and committed other acts of misconduct following the filing of the petition. The parties settled this lawsuit in January 2008 and agreed to a dismissal of all material claims, although the dismissal has not yet been ordered by the court. At December 31, 2007, we had accrued a reserve for the settlement amount. We are from time to time a party to various lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. These actions typically seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, breach of contract and or property damages, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses, or injunctive or declaratory relief. With respect to all such lawsuits, claims and proceedings, we record 27 Table of Contents reserves when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We do not believe that any of these proceedings, separately or in the aggregate, would be expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders During the fourth quarter of the year covered by this report, no matters were submitted to a vote of our security holders, through the solicitation of proxies or otherwise. PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol PWR. Our common stock trades with an attached right to purchase Series D Junior Participating Preferred Stock as more fully described under the heading Stockholder Rights Plan in Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 hereof. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of our common stock per quarter, as reported by the NYSE, for the two most recent fiscal years. High Low Year Ended December 31, 2006 1st Quarter $ 16.09 $ 12.24 2nd Quarter 18.92 14.47 3rd Quarter 18.02 14.40 4th Quarter 20.05 16.32 Year Ended December 31, 2007 1st Quarter $ 26.04 $ 18.66 2nd Quarter 32.11 25.27 3rd Quarter 32.58 23.36 4th Quarter 33.42 23.58 On February 20, 2008, there were 1,049 holders of record of our common stock and 15 holders of record of our Limited Vote Common Stock. There is no established trading market for the Limited Vote Common Stock; however, the Limited Vote Common Stock converts into common stock immediately upon sale. See Note 10 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our Limited Vote Common Stock. Unregistered Sales of Securities During the Fourth Quarter of 2007 Between October 1, 2007 and December 31, 2007, Quanta completed one acquisition in which some of the consideration was unregistered securities of Quanta. The aggregate consideration paid in this transaction was $15.5 million in cash and 337,108 shares of common stock. This acquisition was not affiliated with any other acquisition prior to such transaction. All securities listed on the following table were shares of common stock. Quanta relied on Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), as the basis for exemption from registration. For all issuances, the purchasers were accredited investors as defined in Rule 501 of the Securities Act. All issuances were to the owners of the business acquired in privately negotiated transactions, and not pursuant to public solicitations. Period Number of Shares Purchaser Consideration October 1, 2007 October 31, 2007 337,108 Stockholders of Sale of acquired acquired company company 28 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities During the Fourth Quarter of 2007 The following table contains information about our purchases of equity securities during the three months ended December 31, 2007. (d) Maximum (c) Total Number Number of Shares of Shares Purchased That May Yet be as Part of Publicly Purchased Under (a) Total Number of (b) Average Price Announced Plans or the Plans or Period Shares Purchased Paid per Share Programs Programs December 1, 2007 December 31, 2007 1,268 (i) $ 26.45 None None (i) Represents shares purchased from employees to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards pursuant to the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated March 13, 2003). Dividends We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the growth, development and expansion of our business. Accordingly, we currently do not intend to declare or pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the immediate future. The declaration, payment and amount of future cash dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors after taking into account various factors. These factors include our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows from operations, current and anticipated capital requirements and expansion plans, the income tax laws then in effect and the requirements of Delaware law. In addition, as discussed in Debt Instruments Credit Facility in Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, our credit facility includes limitations on the payment of cash dividends without the consent of the lenders. Performance Graph The following Performance Graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing. The following graph compares, for the period from December 31, 2002 to December 31, 2007, the cumulative stockholder return on our common stock with the cumulative total return on the Standard Poors 500 Index (the SP 500 Index), the Russell 2000 Index, and a peer group index previously selected by our management that includes six public companies within our industry (the Peer Group). The comparison assumes that $100 was invested on December 31, 2002 in our common stock, the SP 500 Index, the Russell 2000 Index and the Peer Group, and further assumes all dividends were reinvested. The stock price performance reflected on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. The Peer Group is composed of Dycom Industries, Inc., MasTec, Inc., Chicago Bridge Iron Company N.V., Shaw Group, Inc. and Pike Electric Corporation. InfraSource Services, Inc. was included in the Peer Group from 2004 through 2006 but has been deleted from the Peer Group for 2007 as a result of its acquisition by us in 2007. The companies in the Peer Group were selected because they comprise a broad group of publicly held corporations, each of which has some operations similar to ours. When taken as a whole, the Peer Group more closely resembles our total business than any individual company in the group. 29 Table of Contents COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN AMONG QUANTA SERVICES, INC., THE S P 500 INDEX, THE RUSSELL 2000 INDEX AND THE PEER GROUP Measurement Period 12/31/2002 12/31/2003 12/31/2004 12/31/2005 12/31/2006 12/31/2007 Quanta Services, Inc. $ 100.00 208.57 228.57 376.29 562.00 749.71 SP 500 Index $ 100.00 128.68 142.69 149.70 173.34 182.87 Russell 2000 Index $ 100.00 147.25 174.24 182.18 215.64 212.26 Peer Group $ 100.00 180.62 210.36 242.08 273.52 455.28 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data The following historical selected financial data has been derived from the audited financial statements of Quanta. The historical financial statement data reflects the acquisitions of businesses accounted for as purchase transactions as of their respective acquisition dates. On August 31, 2007, we sold the operating assets associated with the business of Environmental Professional Associates, Limited (EPA), a Quanta subsidiary. The statements of operations data below do not reflect the operations of EPA in any periods since EPAs results of operations are reflected as discontinued operations in our accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Accordingly, the 2003 through 2006 amounts below do not agree to the amounts previously reported. The historical selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the historical Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 30 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007(f) (In thousands, except per share information) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenues $ 1,624,563 $ 1,608,577 $ 1,842,255 $ 2,109,632 $ 2,656,036 Cost of services (including depreciation) 1,427,405 1,428,646 1,587,556 1,796,916 2,227,289 Gross profit 197,158 179,931 254,699 312,716 428,747 Selling, general and administrative expenses 176,912 170,231 186,411 181,478 240,508 Amortization of intangible assets 367 367 365 363 18,759 Goodwill impairment 6,452 (a) 56,812 (d) Income from operations 13,427 9,333 67,923 74,063 169,480 Interest expense (31,822 ) (25,067 ) (23,949 ) (26,822 ) (21,515 ) Interest income 1,065 2,551 7,416 13,924 19,977 Gain (loss) on early extinguishment of debt, net (35,055 )(b) 1,598 (e) (34 ) Other income (expense), net (2,481 ) 17 235 425 (546 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes (54,866 ) (13,166 ) 51,625 63,188 167,362 Provision (benefit) for income taxes (18,772 ) (3,689 ) 22,446 46,955 34,222 Income (loss) from continuing operations (36,094 ) (9,477 ) 29,179 16,233 133,140 Dividends on preferred stock, net of forfeitures (2,109 )(c) Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to common stock $ (33,985 ) $ (9,477 ) $ 29,179 $ 16,233 $ 133,140 Basic earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations $ (0.31 ) $ (0.08 ) $ 0.25 $ 0.14 $ 0.98 Diluted earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations $ (0.31 ) $ (0.08 ) $ 0.25 $ 0.14 $ 0.87 (a) As part of our 2003 annual goodwill test for impairment, goodwill of $6.5 million was written off as a non cash operating expense associated with the closure of one of our telecommunications businesses. (b) In the fourth quarter of 2003, we recorded a $35.1 million loss on early extinguishment of debt comprised of make whole prepayment premiums, the write off of certain unamortized debt issuance costs and other related costs due to the retirement of our senior secured notes and termination of our then existing credit facility. (c) For the year ended December 31, 2003, we recorded approximately $2.1 million in forfeitures of dividends on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. During the first quarter of 2003, all outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock were converted into shares of common stock and the series was eliminated during the second quarter of 2003. Any dividends that had accrued on the respective shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock were forfeited and the dividend accrual was reversed on the date of conversion. 31 Table of Contents (d) As part of our 2006 annual goodwill test for impairment, goodwill of $56.8 million was written off as a non cash operating expense associated with a decrease in the expected future demand for the services of one of our businesses, which has historically served the cable television industry. (e) In the second quarter of 2006, we recorded a $1.6 million gain on early extinguishment of debt comprised of the gain from repurchasing a portion of our 4.0% convertible subordinated notes, partially offset by costs associated with the related tender offer for such notes. (f) On August 30, 2007, we acquired InfraSource and the results of InfraSources operations have been included in the consolidated financial statements subsequent to August 31, 2007. December 31, 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 (a) (In thousands) Balance Sheet Data: Working capital $ 476,703 $ 478,978 $ 572,939 $ 656,173 $ 547,333 Total assets 1,466,435 1,459,997 1,554,785 1,639,157 3,387,832 Long term debt, net of current maturities 58,051 21,863 7,591 Convertible subordinated notes, net of current maturities 442,500 442,500 442,500 413,750 143,750 Total stockholders equity 663,132 663,247 703,738 729,083 2,185,143 (a) On August 30, 2007, we acquired InfraSource and the results of InfraSources operations have been included in the consolidated financial statements subsequent to August 31, 2007. ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our historical consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto in 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, our credit facility includes limitations on the payment of cash dividends without the consent of the lenders. Performance Graph The following Performance Graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing. The following graph compares, for the period from December 31, 2002 to December 31, 2007, the cumulative stockholder return on our common stock with the cumulative total return on the Standard Poors 500 Index (the SP 500 Index), the Russell 2000 Index, and a peer group index previously selected by our management that includes six public companies within our industry (the Peer Group). The comparison assumes that $100 was invested on December 31, 2002 in our common stock, the SP 500 Index, the Russell 2000 Index and the Peer Group, and further assumes all dividends were reinvested. The stock price performance reflected on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. The Peer Group is composed of Dycom Industries, Inc., MasTec, Inc., Chicago Bridge Iron Company N.V., Shaw Group, Inc. and Pike Electric Corporation. InfraSource Services, Inc. was included in the Peer Group from 2004 through 2006 but has been deleted from the Peer Group for 2007 as a result of its acquisition by us in 2007. The companies in the Peer Group were selected because they comprise a broad group of publicly held corporations, each of which has some operations similar to ours. When taken as a whole, the Peer Group more closely resembles our total business than any individual company in the group. 29 Table of Contents COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN AMONG QUANTA SERVICES, INC., THE S P 500 INDEX, THE RUSSELL 2000 INDEX AND THE PEER GROUP Measurement Period 12/31/2002 12/31/2003 12/31/2004 12/31/2005 12/31/2006 12/31/2007 Quanta Services, Inc. $ 100.00 208.57 228.57 376.29 562.00 749.71 SP 500 Index $ 100.00 128.68 142.69 149.70 173.34 182.87 Russell 2000 Index $ 100.00 147.25 174.24 182.18 215.64 212.26 Peer Group $ 100.00 180.62 210.36 242.08 273.52 455.28 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data The following historical selected financial data has been derived from the audited financial statements of Quanta. The historical financial statement data reflects the acquisitions of businesses accounted for as purchase transactions as of their respective acquisition dates. On August 31, 2007, we sold the operating assets associated with the business of Environmental Professional Associates, Limited (EPA), a Quanta subsidiary. The statements of operations data below do not reflect the operations of EPA in any periods since EPAs results of operations are reflected as discontinued operations in our accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Accordingly, the 2003 through 2006 amounts below do not agree to the amounts previously reported. The historical selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the historical Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 30 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007(f) (In thousands, except per share information) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenues $ 1,624,563 $ 1,608,577 $ 1,842,255 $ 2,109,632 $ 2,656,036 Cost of services (including depreciation) 1,427,405 1,428,646 1,587,556 1,796,916 2,227,289 Gross profit 197,158 179,931 254,699 312,716 428,747 Selling, general and administrative expenses 176,912 170,231 186,411 181,478 240,508 Amortization of intangible assets 367 367 365 363 18,759 Goodwill impairment 6,452 (a) 56,812 (d) Income from operations 13,427 9,333 67,923 74,063 169,480 Interest expense (31,822 ) (25,067 ) (23,949 ) (26,822 ) (21,515 ) Interest income 1,065 2,551 7,416 13,924 19,977 Gain (loss) on early extinguishment of debt, net (35,055 )(b) 1,598 (e) (34 ) Other income (expense), net (2,481 ) 17 235 425 (546 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes (54,866 ) (13,166 ) 51,625 63,188 167,362 Provision (benefit) for income taxes (18,772 ) (3,689 ) 22,446 46,955 34,222 Income (loss) from continuing operations (36,094 ) (9,477 ) 29,179 16,233 133,140 Dividends on preferred stock, net of forfeitures (2,109 )(c) Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to common stock $ (33,985 ) $ (9,477 ) $ 29,179 $ 16,233 $ 133,140 Basic earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations $ (0.31 ) $ (0.08 ) $ 0.25 $ 0.14 $ 0.98 Diluted earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations $ (0.31 ) $ (0.08 ) $ 0.25 $ 0.14 $ 0.87 (a) As part of our 2003 annual goodwill test for impairment, goodwill of $6.5 million was written off as a non cash operating expense associated with the closure of one of our telecommunications businesses. (b) In the fourth quarter of 2003, we recorded a $35.1 million loss on early extinguishment of debt comprised of make whole prepayment premiums, the write off of certain unamortized debt issuance costs and other related costs due to the retirement of our senior secured notes and termination of our then existing credit facility. (c) For the year ended December 31, 2003, we recorded approximately $2.1 million in forfeitures of dividends on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. During the first quarter of 2003, all outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock were converted into shares of common stock and the series was eliminated during the second quarter of 2003. Any dividends that had accrued on the respective shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock were forfeited and the dividend accrual was reversed on the date of conversion. 31 Table of Contents (d) As part of our 2006 annual goodwill test for impairment, goodwill of $56.8 million was written off as a non cash operating expense associated with a decrease in the expected future demand for the services of one of our businesses, which has historically served the cable television industry. (e) In the second quarter of 2006, we recorded a $1.6 million gain on early extinguishment of debt comprised of the gain from repurchasing a portion of our 4.0% convertible subordinated notes, partially offset by costs associated with the related tender offer for such notes. (f) On August 30, 2007, we acquired InfraSource and the results of InfraSources operations have been included in the consolidated financial statements subsequent to August 31, 2007. December 31, 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 (a) (In thousands) Balance Sheet Data: Working capital $ 476,703 $ 478,978 $ 572,939 $ 656,173 $ 547,333 Total assets 1,466,435 1,459,997 1,554,785 1,639,157 3,387,832 Long term debt, net of current maturities 58,051 21,863 7,591 Convertible subordinated notes, net of current maturities 442,500 442,500 442,500 413,750 143,750 Total stockholders equity 663,132 663,247 703,738 729,083 2,185,143 (a) On August 30, 2007, we acquired InfraSource and the results of InfraSources operations have been included in the consolidated financial statements subsequent to August 31, 2007. ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our historical consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto in 
 
