Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 hereof, a significant portion of our revenues is recognized using the percentage of completion method of accounting, utilizing the cost to cost method. This method is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. This accounting method is generally accepted for fixed price contracts. The percentage of completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. Contract losses are recognized in full when determined to be probable and reasonably estimatable, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. Further, a substantial portion of our contracts contain various cost and performance incentives. Penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally occurs during the latter stages of the contract. In addition, we record cost recovery claims when we believe recovery is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. Actual collection of claims could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. We may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth. Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: expand the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving network needs; attract new customers; increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; hire and retain qualified employees; expand geographically, including internationally; and address the challenges presented by difficult economic or market conditions that may affect us or our customers. In addition, our customers may cancel or delay or reduce the number or size of projects available to us due to their inability to obtain capital or pay for services provided, the risk of which has become evident in light of the continuing economic downturn. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies for achieving internal growth will be successful. 14 Table of Contents As a result of the acquisition of Price Gregory, our profitability and financial condition may be adversely affected by risks associated with the natural gas and oil industry, such as price fluctuations and supply and demand for natural gas. As a result of our acquisition of Price Gregory, our exposure to risks associated with providing services under our Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment have now increased due to the increase in the portion of our revenues attributable to these services. These risks, which are not subject to our control, include the volatility of natural gas prices, the lack of demand for power generation from natural gas and a slowdown in the discovery or development of natural gas and or oil reserves. Specifically, lower natural gas and oil prices generally result in decreased spending by our Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment customers. While higher natural gas and oil prices generally result in increased spending by these customers, sustained high energy prices could be an impediment to economic growth and could result in reduced spending by such customers. Additionally, higher prices will likely reduce demand for power generation from natural gas, which could result in decreased demand for the expansion of North Americas natural gas pipeline infrastructure, and consequently result in less capital spending by these customers and less demand for our services. Further, if the discovery or development of natural gas and or oil reserves slowed or stopped, customers would likely reduce capital spending on transmission pipelines, gas gathering and compressor systems and other related infrastructure, resulting in less demand for our services. If the profitability of our business under Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment were to decline, our overall profitability, results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from acquiring Price Gregory. The success of our acquisition of Price Gregory will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated benefits from acquiring Price Gregory, including the significant expansion of our operations in our Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment, certain eliminations of redundant costs and cross selling opportunities with our other operations. To realize these benefits, however, we must successfully integrate the operations and personnel of Price Gregory into our business. If this integration is unsuccessful, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer or cost more to realize than expected. Because we and Price Gregory have previously operated as independent companies, it is possible the integration may result in the future loss of valuable employees, the disruption of our business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements. Furthermore, Price Gregory was formed on January 31, 2008 through a combination of H.C. Price Company and Gregory Cook Construction, Inc., both independently operated companies with separate ownership prior to the combination. Although substantial progress had been made at the time of the acquisition of Price Gregory, the integration of these two companies is continuing, and this integration may result in similar adverse impacts to our business. If we are unable to successfully complete these integrations, we may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Price Gregory or we may be impacted negatively by the integration process, which could adversely affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows. Our business is highly competitive. The specialty contracting business is served by numerous small, owner operated private companies, some public companies and several large regional companies. In addition, relatively few barriers prevent entry into some areas of our business. As a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. Competition in the industry depends on a number of factors, including price. For example, we are currently experiencing the impacts of competitive pricing in certain of the markets we serve. Certain of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures and, therefore, may be able to provide their services at lower rates than we are able to provide. In addition, some of our competitors have significant resources including financial, technical and marketing resources. We cannot be certain that our competitors do not have or will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. Similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within the specialty contracting business or maintain our customer base at current levels. We also may face competition from the in house service organizations of our existing or prospective 15 Table of Contents customers. Electric power, natural gas, oil and telecommunications service providers usually employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services we do, and we cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future. Legislative actions and initiatives relating to electric power, renewable energy and telecommunications may fail to result in increased demand for our services. Demand for our services may not result from renewable energy initiatives. While many states currently have mandates in place that require certain percentages of power to be generated from renewable sources, states could reduce those mandates or make them optional, which could reduce, delay or eliminate renewable energy development in the affected states. Additionally, renewable energy is generally more expensive to produce and may require additional power generation sources as backup. The locations of renewable energy projects are often remote and are not viable unless new or expanded transmission infrastructure to transport the power to demand centers is economically feasible. Furthermore, funding for renewable energy initiatives may not be available, which may be further constrained as a result of the current tight credit markets. These factors have resulted in fewer renewable energy projects than anticipated and a delay in the construction of these projects and the related infrastructure, which has adversely affected the demand for our services. These factors could continue to result in delays or reductions in projects, which could further negatively impact our business. The ARRA provides for various stimulus programs, such as grants, loan guarantees and tax incentives, relating to renewable energy, energy efficiency and electric power and telecommunications infrastructure. We cannot predict when programs under the ARRA will be implemented, the timing and scope of any investments to be made under these programs or whether these programs will result in increased demand for our services. Investments for renewable energy, electric power infrastructure and telecommunications fiber deployment under ARRA programs may not occur, may be less than anticipated or may be delayed, any of which would negatively impact demand for our services. In addition, other current and potential legislative initiatives may not result in increased demand for our services. For instance, certain provisions of the proposed American Clean Energy and Security Act (ACES Act) are intended to encourage electric power transmission and renewable energy projects. However, it is uncertain whether the ACES Act, if enacted, will positively impact infrastructure spending in the long term. Specifically, the ACES Act may not result in the anticipated acceleration of future transmission projects or encourage the installation of renewable energy generation facilities, which could result in fewer electric power transmission and substation projects than anticipated and consequently adversely impact demand for our services. It is not certain when or if these legislative initiatives, including the ACES Act, will be enacted or whether any potentially beneficial provisions will be included in the final legislation. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Energy Act) requires the power industry to meet certain federal reliability standards for its transmission and distribution systems and provides incentives to the industry to invest in and improve maintenance on its systems. However, regulations implementing various components of the Energy Act that could affect demand for our services remain subject to uncertainty. Accordingly, the effect of these regulations, once finally implemented, cannot be predicted. As a result, the legislation may not result in increased spending on electric power transmission infrastructure or increased demand for our services. There are also a number of other legislative and regulatory proposals, including the ACES Act, to address greenhouse gas emissions, which are in various phases of discussion or implementation. The outcome of federal and state actions to address global climate change could negatively affect the operations of our customers through costs of compliance or restraints on projects, which could reduce their demand for our services. Many of our contracts may be canceled on short notice or may not be renewed upon completion or expiration, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts in such events. We could experience a decrease in our revenue, net income and liquidity if any of the following occur: our customers cancel a significant number of contracts or contracts having significant value; we fail to win a significant number of our existing contracts upon re bid; 16 Table of Contents we complete a significant number of non recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects; or we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent with any decrease in our revenue. Many of our customers may cancel our contracts on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. Certain of our customers assign work to us on a project by project basis under master service agreements. Under these agreements, our customers often have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. Our operations could decline significantly if the anticipated volume of work is not assigned to us, which will be more likely if customer spending continues to decrease, for example, due to the current economic downturn. Many of our contracts, including our master service agreements, are opened to public bid at the expiration of their terms. There can be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that come up for re bid. Our business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. Our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. For instance, we may experience shortages of qualified journeyman linemen, who are integral to the provision of transmission and distribution services under our Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment. In addition, in our Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment, there is limited availability of experienced supervisors and foremen that can oversee large transmission pipeline projects. A shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel creates competitive hiring markets and may result in increased labor expenses. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues. Backlog may not be realized or may not result in profits. Backlog is difficult to determine with certainty. Customers often have no obligation under our contracts to assign or release work to us, and many contracts may be terminated on short notice. Reductions in backlog due to cancellation of one or more contracts by a customer or for other reasons could significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive from contracts included in backlog. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. The backlog we obtain in connection with any companies we acquire may not be as large as we believed or may not result in the revenue or profits we expected. In addition, projects may remain in backlog for extended periods of time. All of these uncertainties are heightened as a result of negative economic conditions and their impact on our customers spending. Consequently, we cannot assure you that our estimates of backlog are accurate or that we will be able to realize our estimated backlog. Our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, several estimates and assumptions are used by management in determining the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or is not capable of being readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. In some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. Estimates are primarily used in our assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives of assets, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill, other intangibles and long lived asset impairments, valuation of derivative contracts, purchase price allocations, liabilities for self insured claims, convertible debt, revenue recognition for construction contracts and fiber optic licensing, share based compensation, operating results of reportable segments, provision for income taxes and calculation of uncertain tax positions. Actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 17 Table of Contents Factors beyond our control may affect our ability to successfully execute our acquisition strategy, which may have an adverse impact on our growth strategy. Our business strategy includes expanding our presence in the industries we serve through strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. We expect to face competition for acquisition opportunities, and some of our competitors may offer more favorable terms than us or have greater financial resources than we do. This competition may limit our acquisition opportunities and our ability to grow through acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive or possibly non accretive to us. Acquisitions that we may pursue may also involve significant cash expenditures, the incurrence or assumption of debt or the issuance of securities. Any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if we issue equity securities in connection with our acquisitions, we may dilute our earnings per share and our shareholders percentage ownership. We may be unsuccessful at integrating companies that either we have acquired or that we may acquire in the future. As a part of our business strategy, we have acquired, and seek to acquire in the future, companies that complement or enhance our business. However, we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully integrate each of these companies with our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. If we do not implement proper overall business controls, our decentralized operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices at the companies we acquire and our overall profitability could be adversely affected. Integrating our acquired companies involves a number of special risks that could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including: failure of acquired companies to achieve the results we expect; diversion of our managements attention from operational and other matters; difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; inability to retain key personnel of acquired companies; risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; loss of business due to customer overlap; risks arising from the prior operations of acquired companies, such as performance, safety or workforce issues; and potential disruptions of our business. If one of our acquired companies suffers or has suffered customer dissatisfaction, performance problems or operational issues, the reputation of our entire company could suffer. Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairments. When we acquire a business, we record an asset called goodwill equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. For example, in connection with the acquisition of Price Gregory, we recorded approximately $68.5 million in goodwill and $76.5 million of intangible assets based on the application of acquisition accounting. Goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives cannot be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, while intangible assets that have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives. The accounting literature provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non amortized intangible assets for impairment. Refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Polices for a detailed discussion. Management is required to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of a reporting units net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, 18 Table of Contents market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. Absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. If there is a decrease in market capitalization below book value in the future, this may be considered an impairment indicator. Any future impairments, including impairments of the goodwill or intangible assets recorded in connection with the acquisition of Price Gregory, and other past or future acquisitions, would negatively impact our results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized. Our profitability and financial operations may be negatively affected by changes in, or interpretations of, existing state or federal telecommunications regulations or new regulations that could adversely affect our Fiber Optic Licensing segment. Many of our Fiber Optic Licensing segment customers benefit from the Universal Service E rate program, which was established by Congress in the 1996 Telecommunications Act and is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the oversight of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). Under the E rate program, schools, libraries and certain healthcare facilities may receive subsidies for certain approved telecommunications services, internet access and internal connections. From time to time, bills have been introduced in Congress that would eliminate or curtail the E rate program. Passage of such actions by the FCC or USAC to further limit E rate subsidies could decrease the demand by certain customers for the services offered by our Fiber Optic Licensing segment. The telecommunications services we provide through our Fiber Optic Licensing segment are subject to regulation by the FCC, to the extent that they are interstate telecommunications services, and by state regulatory agencies, when wholly within a particular state. To remain eligible to provide services under the E rate program, we must maintain telecommunications authorizations in every state where we operate, and we must obtain such authorizations in any new state where we plan to operate. Changes in federal or state regulations could reduce the profitability of our Fiber Optic Licensing segment, and delays in obtaining new authorizations could inhibit our ability to grow our Fiber Optic Licensing segment in new geographic areas. We could be subject to fines if the FCC or a state regulatory agency were to determine that any of our activities or positions are not in compliance with certain regulations. If the profitability of our Fiber Optic Licensing segment were to decline, or if the business of this segment were to become subject to fines, our overall results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected. The business of our Fiber Optic Licensing segment is capital intensive and requires substantial investments, and returns on investments may be less than expected for various reasons. The business of our Fiber Optic Licensing segment requires substantial amounts of capital investment to build out new fiber networks. In 2010, our proposed capital expenditures for our fiber optic licensing business is approximately $70.0 million, $12.1 million of which is related to committed licensing arrangements as of December 31, 2009. Although we generally do not commit capital to new networks until we have a committed license arrangement in place with at least one customer, we may not be able to recoup our initial investment in the network if that customer defaults on its commitment. Even if the customer does not default or we add additional customers to the network, we still may not realize a return on the capital investment for an extended period of time. Furthermore, the amount of capital that we invest in our fiber optic network may exceed planned expenditures as a result of various factors, including difficulty in obtaining permits or rights of way or unexpected increases in costs due to labor, materials or project productivity, which would result in a decrease in the returns on our capital investments if licensing fees for the network were committed and could not be renegotiated. New or developing technologies or significant competition in any of our markets could also negatively impact the business of our Fiber Optic Licensing segment. If any of the above events occur, it could adversely affect our results of operations or result in an impairment of our fiber optic network. 19 Table of Contents We extend credit to customers for purchases of our services and may enter into longer term deferred payment arrangements or provide other financing or investment arrangements with certain of our customers, which subjects us to potential credit or investment risk that could, if realized, adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We grant credit, generally without collateral, to our customers, which include electric power utilities, oil and gas companies, telecommunications and cable television system operators, governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of renewal energy facilities and commercial and industrial properties located primarily in the United States. We may also agree to allow our customers to defer payment on projects until certain milestones have been met or until the projects are substantially completed, although we generally obtain some form of financial assurance to ensure payment. In addition, we may provide other forms of financing or make investments in the projects we perform. Our payment arrangements with our customers subject us to potential credit or investment risk related to changes in business and economic factors affecting our customers. Some of our customers are currently experiencing financial difficulties as a result of the current economic downturn. If significant customers file for bankruptcy or continue to experience financial difficulties, (or if anticipated recoveries relating to receivables in existing bankruptcies or other workout situations fail to materialize), we could experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of current allowances provided or impairments of our investments. In addition, material changes in any of our customers revenues or cash flows could affect our ability to collect amounts due from them. We are self insured against potential liabilities. Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to employers liability, general liability, auto and workers compensation claims, those policies are subject to deductibles ranging from $1.0 million to $5.0 million per occurrence depending on the insurance policy. We are primarily self insured for all claims that do not exceed the amount of the applicable deductible. We also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year. Losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third party actuaries. These insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends and management believes such accruals to be adequate. If we were to experience insurance claims or costs significantly above our estimates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected in a given period. During the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings during the ordinary course of our business. These actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses or injunctive or declaratory relief. In addition, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide and actions we take under our contracts with them, and, in some instances, we may be allocated risk through our contract terms for actions by our customers or other third parties. Because our services in certain instances may be integral to the operation and performance of our customers infrastructure, we may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we work on, even if our services are not the cause of such failures, and we could be subject to civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage, personal injury or system failure. The outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of managements attention to the business. Payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our reputation, liquidity and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Unavailability or cancellation of third party insurance coverage would increase our overall risk exposure as well as disrupt our operations. We maintain insurance coverage from third party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. There can be no assurance that any of our existing insurance coverage will be renewable upon the expiration of the coverage period or that future coverage will be affordable at the required limits. In addition, our third party insurers could fail, suddenly cancel our coverage or otherwise be unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage. If any of these events occur, our overall risk exposure would increase and our operations could be disrupted. For example, we have significant operations in California, which has an environment conducive to wildfires. Should our insurer determine to exclude coverage for wildfires in the future, we could be exposed to significant liabilities and potentially a disruption of our California operations. If our risk exposure increases as a result of adverse changes in our insurance coverages, we could be subject to increased claims and liabilities that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. The departure of key personnel could disrupt our business. We depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and on senior management of our operating units, including the businesses we acquire. Although we have entered into employment agreements with terms of one to three years with most of our executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our employees. Our unionized workforce and related obligations could adversely affect our operations. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 44% of our hourly employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. The acquisition of Price Gregory increased our unionized workforce, as substantially all of their hourly employees are unionized. Although the majority of the collective bargaining agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. Strikes or work stoppages would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could cause us to lose business and decrease our revenue. Additionally, our collective bargaining agreements generally require us to participate with other companies in multi employer pension plans. To the extent those plans are underfunded, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Multi Employer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980, may subject us to substantial liabilities under those plans if we withdraw from them or they are terminated. Furthermore, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 added new funding rules generally applicable to plan years beginning after 2007 for multi employer plans that are classified as endangered, seriously endangered, or critical status. For a plan in critical status, additional required contributions or benefit reductions may apply if a plan is determined to be underfunded, which could detrimentally affect our financial condition or results of operation. We have received notifications regarding the funded status of certain multi employer plans to which Price Gregory contributes in certain states. Pursuant to the notifications, two plans were in critical status, one was in seriously endangered status and one was in endangered status, and in some cases additional contributions in the form of surcharges are required. Should we provide in the future a significant amount of services in areas that require us to utilize unionized employees covered by these affected plans, causing us to make substantial contributions, or should a determination be made that additional plans to which any of our operating units contribute are in a critical status requiring additional contributions, it could detrimentally affect our results of operations or financial condition if we are not able to adequately mitigate these costs. Our ability to complete future acquisitions could be adversely affected because of our union status for a variety of reasons. For instance, our union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements of a business we want to acquire and some businesses may not want to become affiliated with a union based company. Additionally, we may increase our exposure to withdrawal liabilities for underfunded multi employer pension plans to which an acquired company contributes. For example, the acquisition of Price Gregory increased the number of unions in which we participate, as well as the number of multi employer pension plans to which we contribute, some of which are subject to notices of underfunded status as described above or may not otherwise be as well funded as other 21 Table of Contents multi employer pension funds to which we contribute, potentially increasing our exposure to underfunded status, which could detrimentally affect our financial condition or results of operation. Approximately 56% of our hourly employees are not unionized. The new presidential administration has expressed strong support for proposed legislation that would create more flexibility and opportunity for labor unions to organize non union workers. If passed, this legislation could result in a greater percentage of our workforce being subject to collective bargaining agreements, heightening the risks described above. In addition, certain of our customers require or prefer a non union workforce, and they may reduce the amount of work assigned to us if our non union labor crews were to become unionized, which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. We may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts relating to occupational health and safety matters. Our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. While we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. Although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered fatalities in the past and may suffer additional fatalities in the future. Serious accidents, including fatalities, may subject us to substantial penalties, civil litigation or criminal prosecution. Claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time or we were to suffer substantial penalties or criminal prosecution for violation of health and safety regulations, our customers could cancel our contracts and not award us future business. Risks associated with operating in international markets could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects, and we could be adversely affected by our failure to comply with the laws applicable to our foreign activities, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other similar worldwide anti bribery laws. While only a small percentage of our revenue is currently derived from international markets, we hope to continue to expand the volume of services that we provide internationally. Our international operations are presently conducted primarily in Canada, but we have performed work in South Africa, Mexico and various other foreign countries, and we expect that the number of countries that we operate in could expand significantly over the next few years. Economic conditions, including those resulting from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts or volatility in the global markets, may adversely affect our customers, their demand for our services and their ability to pay for our services. In addition, there are numerous risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including, but not limited to, potential instability in international markets, changes in regulatory requirements applicable to international operations, currency fluctuations in foreign countries, political, economic and social conditions in foreign countries and complex U.S. and foreign laws and treaties, including tax laws and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). These risks could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers or to operate our international business profitably, and our overall business and results of operations could be negatively impacted by our foreign activities. The FCPA and similar anti bribery laws in other jurisdictions prohibit U.S. based companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We pursue opportunities in certain parts of the world that experience government corruption to some degree, and, in certain circumstances, compliance with anti bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti bribery laws. Further, we require our partners, subcontractors, agents and others who work for us or on our behalf that they are obligated to comply with the FCPA and other anti bribery laws. Although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees and our agents comply with the FCPA and other anti bribery laws, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will protect us against liability under the FCPA or other laws for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries. If we are found to be liable for FCPA violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from severe criminal or civil penalties or 22 Table of Contents other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged FCPA violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management. Our participation in joint ventures exposes us to liability and or harm to our reputation for failures of our partners. As part of our business, we have entered into joint venture arrangements and may enter into additional joint venture arrangements in the future. The purpose of these joint ventures is typically to combine skills and resources to allow for the performance of particular projects. Success on these jointly performed projects depends in large part on whether our joint venture partners satisfy their contractual obligations. We and our joint venture partners are generally jointly and severally liable for all liabilities and obligations of our joint ventures. If a joint venture partner fails to perform or is financially unable to bear its portion of required capital contributions or other obligations, including liabilities stemming from claims or lawsuits, we could be required to make additional investments, provide additional services or pay more than our proportionate share of a liability to make up for our partners shortfall. Further, if we are unable to adequately address our partners performance issues, the customer may terminate the project, which could result in legal liability to us, harm our reputation and reduce our profit on a project. These risks have been heightened as a result of our assumption of additional joint venture arrangements in connection with our acquisition of Price Gregory. We are in the process of implementing an information technology (IT) solution, which could temporarily disrupt day to day operations at certain operating units. We have begun to implement a comprehensive IT solution that we believe will allow for a seamless interface between functions such as accounting and finance, human resources, operations, and fleet management. Continued development and implementation of the IT solution will require substantial financial and personnel resources. While the IT solution is intended to improve and enhance our information systems, implementation of new information systems at each operating unit exposes us to the risks of start up of the new system and integration of that system with our existing systems and processes, including possible disruption of our financial reporting. Failure to properly implement the IT solution could result in substantial disruptions to our business, including coordinating and processing our normal business activities, testing and recording of certain data necessary to provide oversight over our disclosure controls and procedures and effective internal controls over our financial reporting, and other unforeseen problems. Our dependence on suppliers, subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could expose us to the risk of loss in our operations. On certain projects, we rely on suppliers to obtain the necessary materials and subcontractors to perform portions of our services. We also rely on equipment manufacturers to provide us with the equipment required to conduct our operations. Although we are not dependent on any single supplier, subcontractor or equipment manufacturer, any substantial limitation on the availability of required suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers could negatively impact our operations. The risk of a lack of available suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers is heightened under the current turbulent market conditions and economic downturn. To the extent we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials, we could experience losses in the performance of our operations. Our business growth could outpace the capability of our corporate management infrastructure. We cannot be certain that our infrastructure will be adequate to support our operations as they expand. Future growth also could impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. We cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain such additional managers and executives. To the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan. 23 Table of Contents Opportunities within the government arena could subject us to increased governmental regulation and costs. Most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. As we pursue increased opportunities in the government arena, managements focus associated with the start up and bidding process may be diverted away from other opportunities. Involvement with government contracts could require a significant amount of costs to be incurred before any revenues are realized from these contracts. In addition, as a government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and other public sector liabilities, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a loss of business. Government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. Government agencies may review a contractors performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If government agencies determine through these audits or reviews that costs were improperly allocated to specific contracts, they will not reimburse the contractor for those costs or may require the contractor to refund previously reimbursed costs. If government agencies determine that we engaged in improper activity, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties. In addition, if the government were to even allege improper activity, we also could experience serious harm to our reputation. Many government contracts must be appropriated each year. If appropriations are not made in subsequent years we would not realize all of the potential revenues from any awarded contracts. A portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds. We may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain the necessary surety bonds. Current or future market conditions, including losses incurred in the construction industry or as a result of large corporate bankruptcies, as well as changes in our sureties assessment of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety providers to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. These actions could be taken on short notice. If our surety providers were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more business that does not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. We may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all, which could affect our ability to bid for or work on future projects requiring financial assurances. We have also granted security interests in various of our assets to collateralize our obligations to our sureties. Furthermore, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project by project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds. If we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity as a result of these or any other reasons, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects that would require bonding. Our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, PCBs, fuel storage and air quality. We perform work in many different types of underground environments. If the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil, some of which may contain pollutants. These objects may also rupture, resulting in the discharge of pollutants. In such circumstances, we may be liable for fines and damages, and we may be unable to obtain reimbursement from the parties providing the incorrect information. As a result of our acquisition of Price Gregory, we expect an increase in the amount of work performed in and around environmentally sensitive areas such as rivers, lakes and wetlands. In addition, we perform directional drilling operations below certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies. Due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such directional drilling may cause a surface fracture, resulting in the release of subsurface materials. These subsurface materials may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. We also own and lease several facilities at which we store our equipment. Some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks that are above or below ground. If these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines. 24 Table of Contents In addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. In certain instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such cleanup and other obligations and liabilities that we believe are adequate to cover such obligations and liabilities. However, such third party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of our costs, and such unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or future obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition or cash flows. Further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify or be indemnified for all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business. There are also other legislative and regulatory proposals, including the ACES Act, to address greenhouse gas emissions. These proposals, if enacted, could result in a variety of regulatory programs including potential new regulations, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, or other regulatory actions. Any of these actions could result in increased costs associated with our operations and impact the prices we charge our customers. For example, if new regulations are adopted regulating greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources such as cars and trucks, we could experience a significant increase in environmental compliance costs in light of our large rolling stock fleet. In addition, if our operations are perceived to result in high greenhouse gas emissions, our reputation could suffer. We may not be successful in continuing to meet the requirements of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 has many requirements applicable to us regarding corporate governance and financial reporting, including the requirements for management to report on our internal controls over financial reporting and for our independent registered public accounting firm to express an opinion over the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. During 2009, we continued actions to ensure our ability to comply with these requirements. As of December 31, 2009, our internal control over financial reporting was effective; however, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in future years. Failure to maintain effective internal controls or the identification of significant internal control deficiencies in acquisitions already made or made in the future could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock and our other publicly traded securities, the reduced ability to obtain financing, the loss of customers, penalties and additional expenditures to meet the requirements. If we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights become obsolete, our competitive position could be adversely impacted. We utilize a variety of intellectual property rights in our services. We view our portfolio of proprietary energized services tools and techniques as well as our other process and design technologies as one of our competitive strengths, and we use it as part of our efforts to differentiate our service offerings. We may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our services may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We also license certain technologies from third parties, and there is a risk that our relationships with licensors may terminate or expire or may be interrupted or harmed. If we are unable to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, or if there are any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us, our ability to differentiate our service offerings could be reduced. In addition, if our intellectual property rights or work processes become obsolete, we may not be able to differentiate our service offerings, and some of our competitors may be able to offer more attractive services to our customers. As a result, our business and revenue could be materially and adversely affected. We may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance desired growth and operations. If we cannot secure funds in the future, including financing on acceptable terms, we may be unable to support our growth strategy or future operations. We cannot readily predict the ability of certain customers to pay for past services, and the current economic downturn may negatively impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us. We also cannot readily predict the timing, size and success of our acquisition efforts. Using cash for acquisitions limits our 25 Table of Contents financial flexibility and makes us more likely to seek additional capital through future debt or equity financings. Our existing credit facility contains significant restrictions on our operational and financial flexibility, including our ability to incur additional debt or conduct equity financings, and if we seek more debt we may have to agree to additional covenants that limit our operational and financial flexibility. When we seek additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be certain that additional debt or equity will be available to us on terms acceptable to us or at all, in particular under the current volatile market conditions. Furthermore, our credit facility is based upon existing commitments from several banks. With the current tight credit markets, banks have become more restrictive in their lending practices, and some may be unable or unwilling to fund their commitments, which may limit our access to the capital needed to fund our growth and operations. We also rely on financing companies to fund the leasing of certain of our trucks and trailers, support vehicles and specialty construction equipment. The current credit market may cause certain of these financing companies to restrict or withhold access to capital to fund the leasing of additional equipment. Although we are not dependent on any single equipment lessor, a widespread lack of available capital to fund the leasing of equipment could negatively impact our future operations. Additionally, the market price of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, which will impact our ability to use equity to obtain funds. A variety of events may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including overall market conditions or volatility, a shortfall in our operating results from those anticipated, negative results or other unfavorable information relating to our market peers on the risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The industries we serve are subject to rapid technological and structural changes that could reduce the demand for the services we provide. The electric power, gas and oil, telecommunications and cable television industries are undergoing rapid change as a result of technological advances that could, in certain cases, reduce the demand for our services, impair the value of our fiber optic network or otherwise negatively impact our business. New or developing technologies could displace the wireline systems used for voice, video and data transmissions, and improvements in existing technology may allow our Telecommunications Infrastructure Services segment customers to significantly improve their networks without physically upgrading them. Our convertible subordinated notes may be convertible in the future, which, if converted, may result in dilution to existing stockholders, lower prevailing market prices for our common stock or cause a significant cash outlay. As a result of our common stock satisfying the market price condition of our convertible subordinated notes, our 3.75% convertible subordinated notes due 2026 (3.75% Notes) have been convertible at the option of the holders at various times in the past. The 3.75% Notes are not presently convertible, but may resume convertibility in future periods upon satisfaction of the market price condition or other conditions. We have the right to deliver shares of our common stock, cash or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock upon a conversion of the 3.75% Notes. The number of shares issuable upon conversion will be determined based on a conversion rate of approximately $22.41. In the event that all 3.75% Notes were converted for common stock, we would issue an aggregate of 6.4 million shares of our common stock. The conversion of some or all of our 3.75% Notes into our common stock would dilute existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issued upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the possibility that the notes may be converted may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common stock. If we elect to satisfy the conversion obligation in cash, the amount of cash payable upon conversion of the 3.75% Notes will be determined by the product of (i) the number of shares issuable for the principal amount of the converted notes at a conversion rate of approximately $22.41 per share and (ii) the average closing price of our common stock during a 20 day trading period following the holders unretracted election to convert the notes. To the extent we decide to pay cash to settle any conversions and the average closing price of our common stock during this 26 Table of Contents period exceeds $22.41 for the 3.75% Notes, we would have to pay cash in excess of the principal amount of the notes being converted, which would result in the recording of a loss on extinguishment of debt. Certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult. The following provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as currently in effect, as well as our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law, could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock: our certificate of incorporation permits our Board of Directors to issue blank check preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our bylaws; our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to act by written consent; and we are subject to provisions of Delaware law which prohibit us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date such stockholder became classified as an interested stockholder. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. ITEM 2. Properties Facilities We lease our corporate headquarters in Houston, Texas and maintain other facilities throughout North America. Our facilities are used for offices, equipment yards, warehouses, storage and vehicle shops. As of December 31, 2009, we own 36 of the facilities we occupy, many of which are encumbered by our credit facility, and we lease the remainder. We believe that our existing facilities are sufficient for our current needs. Equipment We operate a fleet of owned and leased trucks and trailers, support vehicles and specialty construction equipment, such as backhoes, excavators, trenchers, generators, boring machines, cranes, wire pullers and tensioners, all of which are encumbered by our credit facility. As of December 31, 2009, the total size of the rolling stock fleet was approximately 25,000 units. Most of this fleet is serviced by our own mechanics who work at various maintenance sites and facilities. We believe that these vehicles generally are well maintained and adequate for our present operations. ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings We are from time to time a party to various lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. These actions typically seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, breach of contract and or property damages, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses, or injunctive or declaratory relief. With respect to all such lawsuits, claims and proceedings, we record reserves when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. None of these proceedings, separately or in the aggregate, are expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 27 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 4. Reserved ITEM 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol PWR. Our common stock trades with an attached right to purchase Series D Junior Participating Preferred Stock as more fully described under the heading Stockholder Rights Plan in Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 hereof. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of our common stock per quarter, as reported by the NYSE, for the two most recent fiscal years. High Low Year Ended December 31, 2008 1st Quarter $ 26.77 $ 18.38 2nd Quarter 34.51 23.40 3rd Quarter 35.39 22.81 4th Quarter 26.72 10.56 Year Ended December 31, 2009 1st Quarter $ 23.65 $ 15.84 2nd Quarter 25.80 20.46 3rd Quarter 25.40 19.34 4th Quarter 23.34 17.73 On February 18, 2010, there were 1,732 holders of record of our common stock and 10 holders of record of our Limited Vote Common Stock. There is no established trading market for the Limited Vote Common Stock; however, the Limited Vote Common Stock converts into common stock immediately upon sale. See Note 11 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our Limited Vote Common Stock. Unregistered Sales of Securities During the Fourth Quarter of 2009 In October 2009, we completed the acquisition of two companies in which some of the consideration consisted of our unregistered securities of Quanta. The aggregate consideration paid in these transactions was $106.3 million in cash and 11,096,733 shares of common stock. These acquisitions were not affiliated with any other acquisitions prior to such transactions. All securities listed on the following table are shares of our common stock. We relied on Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), as the basis for exemption from registration. For all issuances, the purchasers were accredited investors as defined in Rule 501 of the Securities Act. All issuances were as a result of privately negotiated transactions, and not pursuant to public solicitations. Period Number of Shares Purchaser Consideration October 1, 2009 October 31, 2009 11,096,733 Stockholders of acquired companies Sale of acquired companies 28 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities During the Fourth Quarter of 2009 The following table contains information about our purchases of equity securities during the three months ended December 31, 2009. (d) Maximum (c) Total Number Number of Shares of Shares Purchased That May Yet be as Part of Publicly Purchased Under (a) Total Number of (b) Average Price Announced Plans or the Plans or Period Shares Purchased Paid per Share Programs Programs November 1, 2009 November 30, 2009 1,523 (i) $ 19.32 None None (i) Represents shares purchased from employees to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards pursuant to the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated March 13, 2003) and the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan. Dividends We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the growth, development and expansion of our business. Accordingly, we currently do not intend to declare or pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the immediate future. The declaration, payment and amount of future cash dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors after taking into account various factors. These factors include our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows from operations, current and anticipated capital requirements and expansion plans, the income tax laws then in effect and the requirements of Delaware law. In addition, as discussed in Debt Instruments Credit Facility in Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, our credit facility includes limitations on the payment of cash dividends without the consent of the lenders. 29 Table of Contents Performance Graph The following Performance Graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing. The following graph compares, for the period from December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2009, the cumulative stockholder return on our common stock with the cumulative total return on the Standard Poors 500 Index (the SP 500 Index), the Russell 2000 Index, a peer group index previously selected by our management that includes six public companies within our industry (the Peer Group). The comparison assumes that $100 was invested on December 31, 2004 in our common stock, the SP 500 Index, the Russell 2000 Index and the Peer Group, and further assumes all dividends were reinvested. The stock price performance reflected on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. The Peer Group is composed of Dycom Industries, Inc., MasTec, Inc., Chicago Bridge Iron Company N.V., Shaw Group, Inc., Pike Electric Corporation and MYR Group Inc. MYR Group Inc. completed its initial public offering on August 12, 2008. Accordingly, the Peer Group graph assumes $100 was invested in MYR Group Inc. on August 12, 2008. The companies in the Peer Group were selected because they comprise a broad group of publicly held corporations, each of which has some operations similar to ours. When taken as a whole, the Peer Group more closely resembles our total business than any individual company in the group. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN AMONG QUANTA SERVICES, INC., THE SP 500 INDEX, THE RUSSELL 2000 INDEX AND THE PEER GROUP Measurement Period 12/31/2004 12/31/2005 12/31/2006 12/31/2007 12/31/2008 12/31/2009 Quanta Services, Inc. $ 100.00 164.63 245.88 328.00 247.50 260.50 SP 500 Index $ 100.00 104.91 121.48 128.16 80.74 102.11 Russell 2000 Index $ 100.00 104.55 123.76 121.82 80.66 102.58 Peer Group $ 100.00 116.54 126.84 220.93 70.29 98.74 30 Table of Contents ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data The following historical selected financial data has been derived from the financial statements of Quanta. The results of Price Gregorys and InfraSources operations have been included in the consolidated financial statements beginning October 1, 2009 and September 1, 2007, respectively. On August 31, 2007, we sold the operating assets of Environmental Professional Associates, Limited, a Quanta subsidiary. The historical results of operations associated with this business have been presented as a discontinued operation in Quantas statement of operations, and as a result have been excluded from the information presented below. The historical selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the historical Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Year Ended December 31, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (In thousands, except per share information) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenues $ 1,842,255 $ 2,109,632 $ 2,656,036 $ 3,780,213 $ 3,318,126 Cost of services (including depreciation) 1,587,556 1,796,916 2,227,289 3,145,347 2,724,638 Gross profit 254,699 312,716 428,747 634,866 593,488 Selling, general and administrative expenses 186,411 181,478 240,508 309,399 312,414 Amortization of intangible assets 365 363 18,759 36,300 38,952 Goodwill impairment 56,812 (a) Operating income 67,923 74,063 169,480 289,167 242,122 Interest expense (23,949 )(f) (26,822 )(f) (39,328 )(f) (32,002 )(f) (11,269 ) Interest income 7,416 13,924 19,977 9,765 2,456 Gain (loss) on early extinguishment of debt, net 1,598 (b) (34 ) (2 ) Other income (expense), net 235 425 (546 ) 342 421 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 51,625 63,188 149,549 267,270 233,730 Provision for income taxes 22,446 46,955 (c) 27,684 (d) 109,705 70,195 (e) Income from continuing operations 29,179 16,233 121,865 157,565 163,535 Discontinued operation: Income from discontinued operation 378 1,250 2,837 Net income 29,557 17,483 124,702 157,565 163,535 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 1,373 Net income attributable to common stock $ 29,557 $ 17,483 $ 124,702 $ 157,565 $ 162,162 Basic earnings per share attributable to common stock from continuing operations(f) $ 0.25 $ 0.14 $ 0.89 $ 0.89 $ 0.81 Diluted earnings per share attributable to common stock from continuing operations(f) $ 0.25 $ 0.14 $ 0.86 $ 0.87 $ 0.81 (a) As part of our 2006 annual test for goodwill impairment, goodwill of $56.8 million was written off as non cash operating expense associated with a decrease in the expected future demand for the services of one of our businesses, which has historically served the cable television industry. 31 Table of Contents (b) In the second quarter of 2006, we recorded a $1.6 million gain on early extinguishment of debt comprised of the gain from repurchasing a portion of our 4.0% convertible subordinated notes, partially offset by costs associated with the related tender offer for such notes. (c) The higher tax rate in 2006 results primarily from the goodwill impairment charge recorded during 2006, the majority of which is not deductible for tax purposes. (d) The lower effective tax rate in 2007 results from $34.4 million of tax benefits recorded in 2007 primarily due to a decrease in reserves for uncertain tax positions resulting from a settlement of a multi year Internal Revenue Service audit in the first quarter of 2007 and the expiration of various federal and state tax statutes of limitations during the third quarter of 2007. (e) The lower effective tax rate in 2009 results primarily from $23.7 million of tax benefits recorded in 2009 primarily due to a decrease in reserves for uncertain tax positions resulting from the expiration of various federal and state tax statutes of limitations. December 31, 2005(f)(g) 2006(f)(g) 2007(f)(g) 2008(f)(g) 2009 (In thousands) Balance Sheet Data: Working capital $ 572,939 $ 656,173 $ 562,134 $ 933,609 $ 1,087,104 Goodwill 387,307 330,495 1,355,098 1,363,100 1,449,558 Total assets 1,554,785 1,639,157 3,390,806 3,558,159 4,116,954 Long term debt, net of current maturities 7,591 Convertible subordinated notes, net of current maturities 442,500 413,750 118,266 122,275 126,608 Total stockholders equity 714,897 740,242 2,218,727 2,682,374 3,109,183 (f) Our historical selected financial data has been retrospectively restated in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Staff Position (FSP) FSP APB 14 1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Settlement) (FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 470 20, Debt Debt with Conversion and Other Options) and FSP Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 03 6 1, Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share Based Payment Transactions are Participating Securities (ASC 260, Earnings Per Share). The adoption of FSP ABP 14 1 (ASC 470 20) impacted the reported amounts of interest expense and equity for the periods 2007, 2008, and 2009, with amounts relating to the pre 2007 period having been recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment as of January 1, 2007. Accordingly, the 2005 and 2006 selected historical financial data information does not include any impact from the adoption of FSP APB 14 1 (ASC 470 20). A more in depth discussion of how the adoption of FSP APB 14 1 (ASC 470 20) and EITF 03 6 1 (ASC 260) impacted Quantas consolidated financial statements can be found in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements. (g) We recorded a correction of certain errors identified in our deferred tax asset and liability accounts relating to the years 2000 to 2004. These corrections were recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment to the retained earnings portion of stockholders equity as of December 31, 2005. For more details regarding how these correcting adjustments impacted Quantas consolidated financial statements, see the notes to our consolidated financial statements. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our historical consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto in 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, our credit facility includes limitations on the payment of cash dividends without the consent of the lenders. 29 Table of Contents Performance Graph The following Performance Graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing. The following graph compares, for the period from December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2009, the cumulative stockholder return on our common stock with the cumulative total return on the Standard Poors 500 Index (the SP 500 Index), the Russell 2000 Index, a peer group index previously selected by our management that includes six public companies within our industry (the Peer Group). The comparison assumes that $100 was invested on December 31, 2004 in our common stock, the SP 500 Index, the Russell 2000 Index and the Peer Group, and further assumes all dividends were reinvested. The stock price performance reflected on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. The Peer Group is composed of Dycom Industries, Inc., MasTec, Inc., Chicago Bridge Iron Company N.V., Shaw Group, Inc., Pike Electric Corporation and MYR Group Inc. MYR Group Inc. completed its initial public offering on August 12, 2008. Accordingly, the Peer Group graph assumes $100 was invested in MYR Group Inc. on August 12, 2008. The companies in the Peer Group were selected because they comprise a broad group of publicly held corporations, each of which has some operations similar to ours. When taken as a whole, the Peer Group more closely resembles our total business than any individual company in the group. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN AMONG QUANTA SERVICES, INC., THE SP 500 INDEX, THE RUSSELL 2000 INDEX AND THE PEER GROUP Measurement Period 12/31/2004 12/31/2005 12/31/2006 12/31/2007 12/31/2008 12/31/2009 Quanta Services, Inc. $ 100.00 164.63 245.88 328.00 247.50 260.50 SP 500 Index $ 100.00 104.91 121.48 128.16 80.74 102.11 Russell 2000 Index $ 100.00 104.55 123.76 121.82 80.66 102.58 Peer Group $ 100.00 116.54 126.84 220.93 70.29 98.74 30 Table of Contents ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data The following historical selected financial data has been derived from the financial statements of Quanta. The results of Price Gregorys and InfraSources operations have been included in the consolidated financial statements beginning October 1, 2009 and September 1, 2007, respectively. On August 31, 2007, we sold the operating assets of Environmental Professional Associates, Limited, a Quanta subsidiary. The historical results of operations associated with this business have been presented as a discontinued operation in Quantas statement of operations, and as a result have been excluded from the information presented below. The historical selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the historical Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Year Ended December 31, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (In thousands, except per share information) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenues $ 1,842,255 $ 2,109,632 $ 2,656,036 $ 3,780,213 $ 3,318,126 Cost of services (including depreciation) 1,587,556 1,796,916 2,227,289 3,145,347 2,724,638 Gross profit 254,699 312,716 428,747 634,866 593,488 Selling, general and administrative expenses 186,411 181,478 240,508 309,399 312,414 Amortization of intangible assets 365 363 18,759 36,300 38,952 Goodwill impairment 56,812 (a) Operating income 67,923 74,063 169,480 289,167 242,122 Interest expense (23,949 )(f) (26,822 )(f) (39,328 )(f) (32,002 )(f) (11,269 ) Interest income 7,416 13,924 19,977 9,765 2,456 Gain (loss) on early extinguishment of debt, net 1,598 (b) (34 ) (2 ) Other income (expense), net 235 425 (546 ) 342 421 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 51,625 63,188 149,549 267,270 233,730 Provision for income taxes 22,446 46,955 (c) 27,684 (d) 109,705 70,195 (e) Income from continuing operations 29,179 16,233 121,865 157,565 163,535 Discontinued operation: Income from discontinued operation 378 1,250 2,837 Net income 29,557 17,483 124,702 157,565 163,535 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 1,373 Net income attributable to common stock $ 29,557 $ 17,483 $ 124,702 $ 157,565 $ 162,162 Basic earnings per share attributable to common stock from continuing operations(f) $ 0.25 $ 0.14 $ 0.89 $ 0.89 $ 0.81 Diluted earnings per share attributable to common stock from continuing operations(f) $ 0.25 $ 0.14 $ 0.86 $ 0.87 $ 0.81 (a) As part of our 2006 annual test for goodwill impairment, goodwill of $56.8 million was written off as non cash operating expense associated with a decrease in the expected future demand for the services of one of our businesses, which has historically served the cable television industry. 31 Table of Contents (b) In the second quarter of 2006, we recorded a $1.6 million gain on early extinguishment of debt comprised of the gain from repurchasing a portion of our 4.0% convertible subordinated notes, partially offset by costs associated with the related tender offer for such notes. (c) The higher tax rate in 2006 results primarily from the goodwill impairment charge recorded during 2006, the majority of which is not deductible for tax purposes. (d) The lower effective tax rate in 2007 results from $34.4 million of tax benefits recorded in 2007 primarily due to a decrease in reserves for uncertain tax positions resulting from a settlement of a multi year Internal Revenue Service audit in the first quarter of 2007 and the expiration of various federal and state tax statutes of limitations during the third quarter of 2007. (e) The lower effective tax rate in 2009 results primarily from $23.7 million of tax benefits recorded in 2009 primarily due to a decrease in reserves for uncertain tax positions resulting from the expiration of various federal and state tax statutes of limitations. December 31, 2005(f)(g) 2006(f)(g) 2007(f)(g) 2008(f)(g) 2009 (In thousands) Balance Sheet Data: Working capital $ 572,939 $ 656,173 $ 562,134 $ 933,609 $ 1,087,104 Goodwill 387,307 330,495 1,355,098 1,363,100 1,449,558 Total assets 1,554,785 1,639,157 3,390,806 3,558,159 4,116,954 Long term debt, net of current maturities 7,591 Convertible subordinated notes, net of current maturities 442,500 413,750 118,266 122,275 126,608 Total stockholders equity 714,897 740,242 2,218,727 2,682,374 3,109,183 (f) Our historical selected financial data has been retrospectively restated in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Staff Position (FSP) FSP APB 14 1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Settlement) (FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 470 20, Debt Debt with Conversion and Other Options) and FSP Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 03 6 1, Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share Based Payment Transactions are Participating Securities (ASC 260, Earnings Per Share). The adoption of FSP ABP 14 1 (ASC 470 20) impacted the reported amounts of interest expense and equity for the periods 2007, 2008, and 2009, with amounts relating to the pre 2007 period having been recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment as of January 1, 2007. Accordingly, the 2005 and 2006 selected historical financial data information does not include any impact from the adoption of FSP APB 14 1 (ASC 470 20). A more in depth discussion of how the adoption of FSP APB 14 1 (ASC 470 20) and EITF 03 6 1 (ASC 260) impacted Quantas consolidated financial statements can be found in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements. (g) We recorded a correction of certain errors identified in our deferred tax asset and liability accounts relating to the years 2000 to 2004. These corrections were recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment to the retained earnings portion of stockholders equity as of December 31, 2005. For more details regarding how these correcting adjustments impacted Quantas consolidated financial statements, see the notes to our consolidated financial statements. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our historical consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto in 
 
