Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, a significant portion of our revenues are recognized using the percentage of completion method of accounting, utilizing the cost to cost method. This method is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. This accounting method is generally accepted for fixed price contracts. The percentage of completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. Contract losses are recognized in full when determined to be probable and reasonably estimable, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. Further, a substantial portion of our contracts contain various cost and performance incentives. Penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally occurs during the latter stages of the contract. In addition, we record cost recovery claims when we believe recovery is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. Actual collection of claims could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. Our operating results can be negatively affected by weather conditions. We perform substantially all of our services in the outdoors. As a result, adverse weather conditions, such as rainfall or snow, may affect our productivity in performing our services or may temporarily prevent us from performing services. The effect of weather delays on projects that are under fixed price arrangements may be greater if we are unable to adjust the project schedule for such delays. A reduction in our productivity in any given period or our inability to meet guaranteed schedules may adversely affect the profitability of our projects, and as a result, our results of operations. We may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth. Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: expand the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving network needs; attract new customers; increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; hire and retain qualified employees; expand geographically, including internationally; and address the challenges presented by stringent regulatory, environmental and permitting requirements and difficult economic or market conditions that may affect us or our customers. 16 Table of Contents In addition, our customers may cancel, delay or reduce the number or size of projects available to us for a variety of reasons, including capital constraints or inability to the meet regulatory requirements. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies for achieving internal growth will be successful. Our business is highly competitive. The specialty contracting business is served by numerous small, owner operated private companies, some public companies and several large regional companies. In addition, relatively few barriers prevent entry into some areas of our business. As a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. Competition in the industry depends on a number of factors, including price. For example, we are currently experiencing the impacts of competitive pricing in certain of the markets we serve, such as the electric power market with respect to smaller scale transmission projects and distribution services. Certain of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures and, therefore, may be able to provide their services at lower rates than we are able to provide. In addition, some of our competitors have significant resources, including financial, technical and marketing resources. We cannot be certain that our competitors do not have or will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. Similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within the specialty contracting business or maintain our customer base at current levels. We also face competition from the in house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers. Electric power, natural gas, oil and telecommunications service providers usually employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services we do, and we cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future. Legislative actions and initiatives relating to renewable energy, telecommunications and electric power may fail to result in increased demand for our services. Demand for our services may not result from renewable energy initiatives. While many states currently have mandates in place that require specified percentages of power to be generated from renewable sources, states could reduce those mandates or make them optional, which could reduce, delay or eliminate renewable energy development in the affected states. Additionally, renewable energy is generally more expensive to produce and may require additional power generation sources as backup. The locations of renewable energy projects are often remote and are not viable unless new or expanded transmission infrastructure to transport the power to demand centers is economically feasible. Furthermore, funding for renewable energy initiatives may not be available, which has been further constrained as a result of tight credit markets. These factors have resulted in fewer renewable energy projects than anticipated and a delay in the construction of these projects and the related infrastructure, which has adversely affected the demand for our services. These factors could continue to result in delays or reductions in projects, which could further negatively impact our business. The ARRA provides for various stimulus programs, such as grants, loan guarantees and tax incentives, relating to renewable energy, energy efficiency and electric power and telecommunications infrastructure. Some of these programs have expired, which may affect the economic feasibility of future projects. Additionally, while a significant amount of stimulus funds have been awarded, we cannot predict the timing and scope of any investments to be made under stimulus funding or whether stimulus funding will result in increased demand for our services. Investments for renewable energy, electric power infrastructure and telecommunications fiber deployment under ARRA programs may not occur, may be less than anticipated or may be delayed, any of which would negatively impact demand for our services. Other current and potential legislative or regulatory initiatives may not result in increased demand for our services. Examples include legislation or regulations to require utilities to meet reliability standards, to ease siting and right of way issues for the construction of transmission lines, and to encourage installation of new electric power transmission and renewable energy generation facilities. It is not certain whether existing legislation will create sufficient incentives for new projects, when or if proposed legislative initiatives will be enacted or whether any potentially beneficial provisions will be included in the final legislation. 17 Table of Contents There are also a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions, which are in various phases of discussion or implementation. The outcome of federal and state actions to address global climate change could negatively affect the operations of our customers through costs of compliance or restraints on projects, which could reduce their demand for our services. We are self insured against certain potential liabilities. Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to employers liability, general liability, auto and workers compensation claims, those policies are subject to deductibles ranging from $1.0 million to $5.0 million per occurrence depending on the insurance policy. We are primarily self insured for all claims that do not exceed the amount of the applicable deductible. We also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year. Our insurance policies include various coverage requirements, including the requirement to give appropriate notice. If we fail to comply with these requirements, our coverage could be denied. Losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third party actuaries. These insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. If we were to experience insurance claims or costs significantly above our estimates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected in a given period. During the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings during the ordinary course of our business. These actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, environmental liabilities, punitive damages, and civil penalties or other losses or injunctive or declaratory relief. In addition, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide and actions we take under our contracts with them, and, in some instances, we may be allocated risk through our contract terms for actions by our customers or other third parties. Because our services in certain instances may be integral to the operation and performance of our customers infrastructure, we have been and may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we work on, even if our services are not the cause of such failures, and we could be subject to civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage, personal injury or system failure. Insurance coverage may not be available or may be insufficient for these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings. The outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of managements attention to the business. Payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our reputation, liquidity and results of operations. For details on our existing litigation and claims, refer to Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, our credit facility includes limitations on the payment of cash dividends without the consent of the lenders. Performance Graph The following Performance Graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing. The following graph compares, for the period from December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2011, the cumulative stockholder return on our common stock with the cumulative total return on the Standard & Poors 32 Table of Contents 500 Index (the S&P 500 Index) and a peer group selected by our management that includes public companies within our industry. The companies in the peer group were selected because they comprise a broad group of publicly held corporations, each of which has some operations similar to ours. The current peer group (the 2011 Peer Group) includes Chicago Bridge & Iron Company N.V., Dycom Industries, Inc., EMCOR Group Inc., Fluor Corporation, Jacobs Engineering Group Inc., MasTec, Inc., MYR Group Inc., Pike Electric Corporation, The Shaw Group, Inc., URS Corp. and Willbros Group, Inc. The peer group used in the previous year (the 2010 Peer Group) included each of the foregoing companies as well as Comfort Systems USA Inc. The shift to the 2011 Peer Group was based on our decision to focus the comparison on companies that are similar to us in market capitalization and lines of business and for consistency with other comparisons, as management and the Board utilize the 2011 Peer Group when evaluating various aspects of our business. The graph below assumes an investment of $100 (with reinvestment of all dividends) in our common stock, the S&P 500 Index and each of the peer groups on December 31, 2006 and tracks their relative performance through December 31, 2011. MYR Group Inc. completed its initial public offering on August 12, 2008, and accordingly, the performance graph below assumes $100 was invested in MYR Group Inc. in 2008. The returns of each company in the peer group are weighted based on the market capitalization of each constituent company at the beginning of the measurement period. The stock price performance reflected on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN Among Quanta Services, Inc., the S&P 500 Index, 2010 Peer Group and 2011 Peer Group 12/06 12/07 12/08 12/09 12/10 12/11 Quanta Services, Inc. $ 100.00 133.40 100.66 105.95 101.27 109.51 S&P 500 $ 100.00 105.49 66.46 84.05 96.71 98.75 2010 Peer Group $ 100.00 175.61 91.13 97.28 122.85 106.65 2011 Peer Group $ 100.00 177.19 91.26 97.24 123.12 106.96 33 Table of Contents ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data The following historical selected financial data has been derived from the financial statements of Quanta. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in 
 
