FILE:DHI/DHI-8K-20041214170923.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
Item 8.01. Other Events.
       On December 10, 2004, the Company filed a prospectus supplement under its Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-117531), relating to the offering of $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 5.625% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "Notes"). In connection with the offering and issuance of the Notes, the Company is hereby filing the following exhibits which are incorporated by reference herein:
Exhibit 1.1 is the Underwriting Agreement, dated as of December 8, 2004, among D.R. Horton, Inc., the Guarantors named therein and Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
Exhibit 4.1 is the Twenty-Second Supplemental Indenture, to be dated as of December 15, 2004, among D.R. Horton, Inc., the Guarantors named therein and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as trustee, relating to the 5.625% Senior Notes Due 2016 of D.R. Horton, Inc.
Exhibit 5.1 is the opinion of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP, Dallas, Texas.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)
Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 14, 2004
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 1.1
Execution Copy
December 8, 2004
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. 388 Greenwich Street New York, New York 10013
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     D.R. Horton, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 5.625% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "Notes") to Citigroup Global Markets Inc. ("you" or the "Underwriter"). The Notes are to be issued pursuant to the provisions of an Indenture dated as of June 9, 1997 as supplemented (the "Base Indenture") and a supplemental indenture to be dated as of December 15, 2004 (the "Supplemental Indenture" and together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture") among the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company and American Stock Transfer and Trust Company, as Trustee (the "Trustee"). The Company's obligations under the Indenture and the Notes will be unconditionally guaranteed (the "Guarantees"), jointly and severally, by each of the subsidiaries of the Company listed on the signature pages hereof (the "Guarantors"). The Company and the Guarantors are collectively referred to herein as the "Issuers" and the Notes and the Guarantees are collectively referred to herein as the "Securities."
     1. Registration Statement and Prospectus. The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") in accordance with the provisions of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the published rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, the "Act"), a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-117531), including a base prospectus relating to the Securities. The registration statement as amended at the time it became effective on August 12, 2004, including information (if any) deemed to be part of the registration statement at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430A under the Act, is hereinafter referred to as the "Registration Statement"; and the base prospectus dated August 12, 2004 (the "Base Prospectus"), as supplemented by the prospectus supplement to be dated December 10, 2004 relating to the Securities in the form first used to confirm sales of Securities (the "Prospectus Supplement") is hereinafter referred to as the "Prospectus." Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, a pre-
 
liminary prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Act, as of the effective date of the Registration Statement or the date of such preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (the "Incorporated Documents"), and, except as otherwise indicated, when reference is made to information "in" (including by use of the terms "set forth in," "described in" and similar terms) the Prospectus or the Registration Statement, such reference shall be deemed to include information incorporated by reference in the Prospectus or the Registration Statement, as the case may be.
     2. Agreements To Sell and Purchase. The Company agrees to issue and sell, and, on the basis of the representations and warranties contained in this Underwriting Agreement (the "Agreement") and subject to its terms and conditions, the Underwriter agrees to purchase from the Company $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Notes at an aggregate purchase price of 98.897% of the principal amount thereof ($296,691,000), plus accrued interest, if any, from December 15, 2004 to the date of payment and delivery (collectively, the "Purchase Price").
     3. Terms of Public Offering. The Company is advised by the Underwriter that the Underwriter proposes to make a public offering of the Securities as soon after the execution and delivery of this Agreement as in judgment of the Underwriter is advisable on the basis set forth in the Prospectus Supplement.
     4. Delivery and Payment. Delivery to the Underwriter of and payment for the Securities shall be made at 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on December 15, 2004 (the "Closing Date"), at such place as you shall designate. The Closing Date and the location of delivery of and the form of payment for the Securities may be varied by agreement between you and the Company.
     Certificates for the Securities shall be registered in such names and issued in such denominations as you shall request in writing not later than two full business days prior to the Closing Date. Such certificates shall be made available to you for inspection not later than 9:30 A.M., New York City time, on the business day next preceding the Closing Date. Certificates in definitive form evidencing the Securities shall be delivered to you on the Closing Date with any transfer taxes thereon duly paid by the Company, for the account of the Underwriter, against payment of the Purchase Price therefor by wire or certified or official bank checks payable in Federal funds to the order of the Company. If the Securities will be issued in book-entry form, the Company shall deposit the global certificate(s) representing the Securities with the Depository Trust Company ("DTC"), or its designated custodian, on the Closing Date, and the Company will deliver such global certificate(s) to the Underwriter by causing DTC to credit the Securities to the accounts of the Underwriter at DTC against payment therefor as set forth above.
 
     5. Agreements of the Issuers. The Issuers, jointly and severally, agree with the Underwriter as follows:
     (a) The Issuers will, if necessary or required by law, file an amendment to the Registration Statement or, if necessary pursuant to Rule 430A under the Act, a post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement, as soon as practicable after the execution and delivery of this Agreement, and will use their best efforts to cause the Registration Statement or such post-effective amendment to become effective at the earliest possible time. The Company will comply fully and in a timely manner with the applicable provisions of Rule 424 and Rule 430A under the Act.
     (b) The Issuers will advise you promptly and, if requested by you, will confirm such advice in writing: (i) of the effectiveness of any amendment to the Registration Statement; (ii) of the transmission to the Commission for filing of any supplement to the Prospectus (including any document that would as a result of such filing become an Incorporated Document) and to furnish you with copies thereof; (iii) of the receipt of any comments from the Commission that relate to the Registration Statement or of any request by the Commission for amendment of or a supplement to the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or for additional information; (iv) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or any order preventing or suspending the use of the Prospectus or of the suspension of qualification of the Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or the threatening of any proceeding for such purpose; and (v) within the period of time referred to in paragraph (e) below, of any change in the Company's condition (financial or other), business, prospects, properties, net worth or results of operations, or of the happening of any event, which makes any statement of a material fact made in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus (as then amended or supplemented) untrue or which requires the making of any additions to or changes in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus (as then amended or supplemented) in order to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading, or of the necessity to amend or supplement the Prospectus (as then amended or supplemented) to comply with the Act or any other law. If at any time any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or any order preventing or suspending the use of the Prospectus or suspending any such qualification shall be issued, the Issuers will promptly use their best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of such order at the earliest possible time.
     (c) The Issuers will furnish to you, without charge, (i) five copies of the registration statement as originally filed with the Commission and of each amendment thereto, including all exhibits thereto, (ii) the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto, (iii) such number of copies of the registration statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto, but without exhibits, as you may request,
 
(iv) such number of copies of the Incorporated Documents, without exhibits, as you may request, and (v) five copies of the exhibits to the Incorporated Documents.
     (d) The Issuers will not file any amendment to the Registration Statement or make any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or, prior to the end of the period of time referred to in paragraph (e) below, file any document which, upon filing becomes an Incorporated Document, of which you shall not previously have been advised or to which, after you shall have received a copy of the document proposed to be filed, you shall reasonably object.
     (e) As soon after the execution and delivery of this Agreement as possible and thereafter from time to time for such period as in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriter a prospectus is required by the Act to be delivered in connection with sales by the Underwriter or any dealer, the Issuers will expeditiously deliver to the Underwriter and each dealer, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus (and of any amendment or supplement thereto) as you may reasonably request. The Issuers consent to the use of the Prospectus (and of any amendment or supplement thereto) in accordance with the provisions of the Act and with the securities or Blue Sky laws of the jurisdictions in which the Securities are offered by the Underwriter and by all dealers to whom Securities may be sold, both in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities and for such period of time thereafter as the Prospectus is required by the Act to be delivered in connection with sales by the Underwriter or any dealer.
     (f) If during the period of time referred to in paragraph (e) above any event shall occur as a result of which, in the judgment of the Issuers or in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriter, it becomes necessary to amend or supplement the Prospectus in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances when the Prospectus is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading, or if it is necessary to amend or supplement the Prospectus to comply with the Act or any other law, the Issuers will forthwith prepare and, subject to the provisions of paragraph (d) above, file with the Commission an appropriate amendment or supplement to the Prospectus so that the statements in the Prospectus, as so amended or supplemented, will not, in the light of the circumstances when it is so delivered, be misleading, or so that the Prospectus will comply with law, and to furnish to the Underwriter and to such dealers as you shall specify such number of copies thereof as the Underwriter or such dealers may reasonably request. In the event that the Issuers and you agree that the Prospectus should be amended or supplemented, the Issuers, if requested by you, will promptly issue a press release, in compliance with applicable securities laws, announcing or disclosing the matters to be covered by the proposed amendment or supplement.
     (g) The Issuers will cooperate with you and with counsel for the Underwriter in connection with the registration or qualification of the Securities for offering and sale by the Underwriter and by dealers under the securities or Blue Sky laws of
 
such jurisdictions as you may designate and will file such consents to service of process or other documents necessary or appropriate in order to effect such registration or qualification; provided, however, that in no event shall any Issuer be obligated to qualify to do business in any jurisdiction where it is not now so qualified or to take any action which would subject it to service of process in suits, other than those arising out of the offering or sale of the Securities, in any jurisdiction where it is not now so subject.
     (h) The Issuers will make generally available to its security holders a consolidated earnings statement, which need not be audited, covering a twelve-month period commencing after the date of the Prospectus and ending not later than 15 months thereafter, as soon as practicable after the end of such period, which consolidated earnings statement shall satisfy the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Act and Rule 158 thereunder, and will advise you in writing when such statement has been made available.
     (i) During the period of five years hereafter, the Issuers will furnish to you as soon as available, a copy of all public materials furnished by the Company to its stockholders and all public reports and financial statements furnished by the Company to the principal national securities exchange upon which the common stock of the Company may be listed pursuant to requirements of or agreements with such exchange or to the Commission.
     (j) The Company will apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Securities in accordance with the description set forth in the Prospectus under the caption "Use of Proceeds."
     (k) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has taken, or will take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that might reasonably be expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Securities to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
     (l) The Issuers will pay all costs, expenses, fees and taxes incident to (i) the preparation, printing, filing and distribution under the Act of the Registration Statement (including financial statements and exhibits), and all amendments and supplements thereto prior to or during the period specified in paragraph (e) above, (ii) the preparation of the Indenture, the issuance of the Notes and the fees of the Trustee; (iii) the printing and delivery (including postage, air freight charges and charges for counting and packaging) of such copies of the Prospectus and all amendments or supplements thereto during the period specified in paragraph (e) above, (iv) the printing and delivery of this Agreement, the Preliminary and Supplemental Blue Sky Memoranda and all other agreements, memoranda, correspondence and other documents printed and delivered in connection with the offering of the Securities (including in each case
 
any disbursements of counsel for the Underwriter relating to such printing and delivery), (v) the registration or qualification of the Securities for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of the several states (including in each case the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriter relating to such registration or qualification and memoranda relating thereto), (vi) filings and clearance with the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. in connection with the offering, (vii) the listing, if any, of the Securities on any national securities exchange and (viii) furnishing such copies of the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and all amendments and supplements thereto as may be requested for use in connection with the offering or sale of the Securities by the Underwriter or by dealers to whom Securities may be sold.
     (m) The Issuers will not during the period beginning on the date hereof and continuing to and including the Closing Date, offer, sell, contract to sell or otherwise dispose of any debt securities of the Company or any warrants, options or other rights to purchase or acquire debt securities of the Company or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for debt securities of the Company (other than (i) the Securities and (ii) commercial paper issued in the ordinary course of business), without the prior written consent of the Underwriter.
     (n) The Issuers will use their best efforts to do and perform all things required or necessary to be done and performed under this Agreement by the Issuers prior to the Closing Date and to satisfy all conditions precedent to the delivery of the Securities.
     6. Representations and Warranties of the Issuers. The Issuers, jointly and severally, represent and warrant to the Underwriter that:
     (a) Each preliminary prospectus included as part of the registration statement as originally filed or as part of any amendment or supplement thereto, or filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Act, complied when so filed in all material respects with the provisions of the Act. The Commission has not issued any order preventing or suspending the use of any preliminary prospectus.
     (b) The Registration Statement has become effective and at the date of the Prospectus (if different), including at the date of any post-effective amendment or supplement, the Registration Statement will comply in all material respects with the provisions of the Act, and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; the Prospectus (and any supplements or amendments thereto) will at all such times comply in all material respects with the provisions of the Act and will not at any such time contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in
 
the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided, however, that no representation or warranty is made as to information contained in or omitted from the Registration Statement or the Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Issuers with respect to the Underwriter specifically for inclusion therein.
     (c) The Incorporated Documents, at the time they were filed with the Commission complied, or, to the extent such documents were subsequently amended prior to the date hereof, at the time so amended complied, or in the case of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K to be filed on December 10, 2004, on the date of such filing will comply, in all material respects with the requirements of the Act or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the published rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, the "Exchange Act"), as applicable, and such documents do not on the date hereof, or in the case of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K to be filed on December 10, 2004, will not on such date, and will not on the Closing Date contain an untrue statement of a material fact and do not on the date hereof, or in the case of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K to be filed on December 10, 2004, will not on such date, and will not on the Closing Date omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
     (d) The financial statements (including the related notes and supporting schedules) in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus present fairly the consolidated financial position and results of operations of the entities purported to be shown thereby, at the dates and for the periods indicated, and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except for changes in accounting principles described therein.
     (e) Ernst & Young LLP, who have reported on the financial statements of the Company, are independent public accountants with respect to the Company and its subsidiaries as required by the Act and, to the Company's knowledge, are not in violation of the auditor independence requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act") and the rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
     (f) The Company and each of its subsidiaries have been duly formed and are validly existing in good standing under the laws of their respective jurisdictions of organization, are duly qualified to do business and are in good standing in each jurisdiction in which their respective ownership or lease of property or the conduct of their respective businesses requires such qualification except where the failure to so qualify, singly or in the aggregate, would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects of the Company and its subsidi-
 
aries taken as a whole (a "Material Adverse Effect"), and have all power and authority necessary to own or hold their respective properties and to conduct the businesses in which they are engaged.
     (g) The Company has an authorized capitalization as set forth in the Prospectus; and all of the issued equity interests of each subsidiary of the Company have been duly authorized and validly issued and, as to shares of capital stock of any corporation constituting a subsidiary, are fully paid and non-assessable and (except for directors' qualifying shares as disclosed in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or minority interests in non-Guarantor subsidiaries) are owned directly or indirectly by the Company, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, equities or claims other than restrictions on transfer imposed by applicable securities laws.
     (h) The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Indenture and the Securities by the Issuers, compliance by the Issuers of all the provisions hereof and thereof and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will not conflict with or result in a breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other material agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject, nor will such actions result in any violation of the provisions of the organizational documents of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any statute or any order, rule or regulation of any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their property or assets; and except for such consents, approvals, authorizations, registrations or qualifications as may be required under the Act or applicable state or foreign securities laws in connection with the purchase and distribution of the Securities by the Underwriter, no consent, approval, authorization or order of, or filing or registration with, any such court or governmental agency or body is required for the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Indenture and the Securities by the Issuers, compliance by the Issuers of all the provisions hereof and thereof and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.
     (i) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Issuers and is a valid and binding agreement of the Issuers enforceable in accordance with its terms (except as rights to indemnity and contribution hereunder may be limited by applicable law).
     (j) The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "TIA"), and has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Issuers and is a valid and binding agreement of the Issuers, enforceable in accordance with its terms except as (i) the enforceability thereof may be limited by
 
bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and (ii) rights of acceleration and the availability of equitable remedies may be limited by equitable principles of general applicability.
     (k) The Notes have been duly authorized and, when executed and authenticated in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and delivered to the Underwriter against payment therefor as provided by this Agreement, will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture, and will be valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms except as (i) the enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and (ii) rights of acceleration and the availability of equitable remedies may be limited by equitable principles of general applicability.
     (l) The Guarantees have been duly authorized and, upon endorsement on the Notes by the Guarantors, execution and authentication of the Notes in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and delivery of the Notes to the Underwriter against payment therefor as provided by this Agreement, will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture, and will be valid and binding obligations of the Guarantors, enforceable in accordance with their terms except as (i) the enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and (ii) rights of acceleration and the availability of equitable remedies may be limited by equitable principles of general applicability.
     (m) The Securities and the Indenture conform to the description thereof in the Prospectus.
     (n) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has sustained, since the date of the latest audited financial statements in the Prospectus, any loss or interference with the business of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor dispute or court or governmental action, order or decree, otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the Prospectus, resulting in a Material Adverse Effect; and, since such date, there has not been any material change in the capital stock or long-term debt of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any material adverse change, or any development involving a prospective material adverse change, in or affecting the general affairs, management, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the Prospectus.
     (o) There are no contracts, agreements or understandings between the Company and any person granting such person the right to require the Company to file a registration statement under the Act with respect to any securities of the Company owned or to be owned by such person or to require the Company to include such secu-
 
rities in the securities registered pursuant to the Registration Statement or in any securities being registered pursuant to any other registration statement filed by the Company under the Act.
     (p) The Company and its subsidiaries own the items of real property and personal property purported to be owned by them which are material to the conduct of the business of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances and defects, except such as are described in the Prospectus or such as would not have a Material Adverse Effect. All real property held under lease by the Company and its subsidiaries are held by them under valid, subsisting and enforceable leases, with such exceptions as are described in the Prospectus or such as would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (q) Except as described in the Prospectus, there are no legal or governmental proceedings pending to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is the subject which are reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect; and to the Issuers' knowledge, no such proceedings are threatened by governmental authorities or by others.
     (r) The conditions for use of Form S-3, as set forth in the General Instructions thereto, have been satisfied.
     (s) To the Issuers' knowledge, all real property owned (either presently or at any time in the past) or presently leased by the Company and its subsidiaries in connection with the operation of their business, including, without limitation, any subsurface soils and ground water (collectively, the "Realty"), is free of contamination from any substance or material presently known to be toxic or hazardous, including, without limitation, any radioactive substance, methane, volatile hydrocarbons or industrial solvents (each, a "Hazardous Substance"), which could reasonably be expected to materially impair the beneficial use thereof by the Company and its subsidiaries or constitute or cause a significant health, safety or other environmental hazard to occupants or users (except for contaminations which would not have a Material Adverse Effect); and to the Issuers' knowledge, the Realty does not contain any underground storage or treatment tanks, active or abandoned water, gas or oil wells, or any other underground improvements or structures, other than the foundations, footings or other supports for the improvements located thereon, the presence of which would have a Material Adverse Effect. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Hazardous Substances shall be deemed not to include any supplies or substances maintained, used, stored or held on the Realty which are (i) naturally occurring, (ii) installed by public utilities or (iii) used in the ordinary course of the Company's or its subsidiaries' business, provided that such supplies or substances are stored, used, maintained and held in all material respects in accordance with any applicable governmental requirements
 
and with restrictions, conditions and standards suggested by the manufacturer and the Company's insurance carriers.
     (t) The Company and its subsidiaries carry, or are covered by, insurance in such amounts and covering such risks as is adequate for the conduct of their respective businesses.
     (u) The Company and its subsidiaries own or possess adequate rights to use all material patents, patent applications, trademarks, service marks, trade names, trademark registrations, service mark registrations, copyrights and licenses necessary for the conduct of their respective businesses the absence of which would have a Material Adverse Effect and have no reason to believe that the conduct of their respective businesses will conflict with, and have not received any notice of any claim of conflict with, any such rights of others which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (v) There are no contracts or other documents which are required to be described in the Prospectus or filed as exhibits to the Registration Statement by the Act which have not been described in the Prospectus or filed as exhibits to the Registration Statement or incorporated therein by reference as permitted by the Act.
     (w) No labor disturbance by the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists or, to the Issuers' knowledge, is imminent which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (x) The Company and its subsidiaries have filed all federal, state and local income and franchise tax returns required to be filed through the date hereof and has paid all taxes due thereon, except where the failure to do so has not had and would reasonably not be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and no tax deficiency has been determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries which has had (nor does any Issuer have any knowledge of any tax deficiency which would reasonably likely have) a Material Adverse Effect.
     (y) Since the date as of which information is given in the Prospectus, and except as may otherwise be disclosed in the Prospectus, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has (i) entered into any material transaction not in the ordinary course of business or (ii) declared or paid any dividend on its capital stock, and, from the date of the Prospectus, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has incurred any liability other than in the ordinary course of business that is material to the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
     (z) The Company is in full compliance with Section 13(b)(2) of the Exchange Act.
 
     (aa) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries (i) is in violation of its organizational documents, (ii) is in default in any material respect, and no event has occurred which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute such a default, in the due performance or observance of any term, covenant or condition contained in any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other material agreement or instrument to which it is a party or by which it is bound or to which any of its properties or assets is subject as a result of which default there would be a Material Adverse Effect or (iii) is in violation of any law, ordinance, governmental rule, regulation or court decree to which it or its property or assets may be subject or has failed to obtain any license, permit, certificate, franchise or other governmental authorization or permit necessary to the ownership of its property or to the conduct of its business which violation or failure would have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (bb) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is an "investment company" or an entity "controlled" by an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
     7. Indemnification. (a) The Issuers, jointly and severally, agree to indemnify and hold harmless the Underwriter, each person, if any, who controls the Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, and the directors, officers, employees and agents of each of the foregoing (collectively, the "Underwriter Indemnified Parties"), from and against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and judgments caused by any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus (as amended or supplemented if the Company shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto) or any preliminary prospectus, or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, except insofar as such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or judgments are caused by any such untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission based upon information relating to the Underwriter furnished in writing to the Issuers by or on behalf of the Underwriter expressly for use therein; provided, however, that the foregoing indemnity agreement with respect to any preliminary prospectus shall not inure to the benefit of any Underwriter Indemnified Party asserted by a person with respect to any such losses, claims, damages and liabilities and judgments, if a copy of the Prospectus (as then amended or supplemented if the Issuers shall have furnished such amendment or supplement thereto in the requisite quantity on a timely basis to permit such sending or giving) was not sent or given by or on behalf of the Underwriter or related Underwriter Indemnified Party to such person, if required by law so to have been delivered, at or prior to the written confirmation of the sale of Securities to such person, and if the Prospectus (as so amended and supplemented) would have cured the defect giving rise to such loss, claim, damage, liability or judgment. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Underwriter shall not be obligated to send or give any Incorporated
 
Document, or any amendment or supplement thereto, to any person in order to benefit from the indemnity provisions herein or otherwise. The foregoing indemnity agreement shall be in addition to any liability that the Issuers may otherwise have.
     (b) In case any action shall be brought against any Underwriter Indemnified Party, based upon any preliminary prospectus, the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto and with respect to which indemnity may be sought against the Issuers, the Underwriter shall promptly notify the Issuers in writing and the Issuers shall assume the defense thereof, including the employment of counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party and payment of all fees and expenses. Such Underwriter Indemnified Party shall have the right to employ separate counsel in any such action and participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Underwriter Indemnified Party unless (i) the employment of such counsel shall have been specifically authorized in writing by the Issuers, (ii) the Issuers shall have failed to assume the defense and employ counsel or (iii) the named parties to any such action (including any impleaded parties) include both such Underwriter Indemnified Party and the Issuers and such Underwriter Indemnified Party shall have been advised by such counsel that there may be one or more legal defenses available to it which are different from or additional to those available to the Issuers (in which case the Issuers shall not have the right to assume the defense of such action on behalf of such Underwriter Indemnified Party, it being understood, however, that the Issuers shall not, in connection with any one such action or separate but substantially similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to any local counsel) for all such Underwriter Indemnified Parties, which firm shall be designated in writing by the Underwriter and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred). The Issuers shall not be liable for any settlement of any such action effected without the Company's written consent but if settled with the written consent of the Company, the Issuers agree to indemnify and hold harmless the Underwriter Indemnified Parties from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement. The Company shall not, without the prior written consent of the Underwriter Indemnified Parties, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which the Underwriter Indemnified Party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such Underwriter Indemnified Party, unless such settlement includes an unconditional release of such Underwriter Indemnified Party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding.
     (c) The Underwriter agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Issuers, their directors, their officers who sign the Registration Statement and any person controlling the Issuers within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Issuers to the Underwriter Indemnified Parties but only with reference to information relating to the Underwriter furnished in writing by or on behalf of the Underwriter expressly for use in the Registration Statement, the Pro-
 
spectus or any preliminary prospectus. In case any action shall be brought against the Issuers, any of its directors, any such officer or any person controlling the Issuers based on the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any preliminary prospectus and in respect of which indemnity may be sought against the Underwriter, the Underwriter shall have the rights and duties given to the Issuers (except that if the Issuers shall have assumed the defense thereof, the Underwriter shall not be required to do so, but may employ separate counsel therein and participate in the defense thereof but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of the Underwriter), and the Issuers, their directors, any such officers and any person controlling the Issuers shall have the rights and duties given to the Underwriter, by Section 7(b) hereof.
     (d) If the indemnification provided for in this Section 7 is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or judgments referred to therein, then each indemnifying party, in lieu of indemnifying such indemnified party, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such losses, claims, damages, liabilities and judgments (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Issuers on the one hand and the Underwriter on the other hand from the offering of the Securities or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Issuers and the Underwriter in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or judgments, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Issuers and the Underwriter shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, and the compensation received by the Underwriter (based on discount to investors on resale), bear to the sum of such total net proceeds and such compensation. The relative fault of the Issuers and the Underwriter shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Issuers or the Underwriter and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
     The Issuers and the Underwriter agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7(d) were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph. The amount paid or payable by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities or judgments referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, the Underwriter shall not be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities underwritten by it and
 
distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which the Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
     (e) The Underwriter confirms and the Issuers acknowledge that the statements with respect to the public offering of the Securities by the Underwriter set forth in the third, fifth and sixth paragraphs of the section entitled "Underwriting" in the Prospectus Supplement are correct and constitute the only information concerning the Underwriter furnished in writing to the Issuers by or on behalf of the Underwriter specifically for inclusion in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus.
     8. Conditions of Underwriter's Obligation. The obligation of the Underwriter to purchase the Securities under this Agreement is subject to the satisfaction of each of the following conditions:
     (a) All the representations and warranties of the Issuers contained in this Agreement shall be true and correct on the Closing Date with the same force and effect as if made on and as of the Closing Date. The Issuers shall have performed or complied with all of their agreements herein contained and required to be performed or complied with by them at or prior to the Closing Date.
     (b) (i) No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been commenced or shall be pending before or threatened by the Commission, (ii) every request for additional information on the part of the Commission shall have been complied with in all material respects, and (iii) no stop order suspending the sale of the Securities in any jurisdiction referred to in Section 6(f) shall have been issued and no proceeding for that purpose shall have been commenced or shall be pending or threatened which would, in your reasonable judgment, make it impracticable or inadvisable to market the Securities or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Securities.
     (c) Subsequent to the execution and delivery of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date, there shall not have been any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of any intended or potential downgrading or of any review for a possible change that does not indicate the direction of the possible change, in the rating accorded any Issuer's debt by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization," as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Act.
     (d) (i) Since the date of the latest balance sheet included in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, there shall not have been any material adverse change, or any development involving a prospective material adverse change, in the condition,
 
financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, affairs or business prospects, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, (ii) since the date of the latest balance sheet included in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus there shall not have been any material change in the capital stock or in the long-term debt of the Company or any of its subsidiaries from that set forth in the Registration Statement and Prospectus and (iii) the Company and its subsidiaries shall have no liability or obligation, direct or contingent, which is material to the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, other than those reflected in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus.
     (e) You shall have received on the Closing Date a certificate dated the Closing Date, signed by (i) Donald R. Horton, Donald J. Tomnitz or Samuel R. Fuller and (ii) Bill W. Wheat or Stacey H. Dwyer in their capacities as (A) the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President or Senior Executive Vice President and (B) Chief Financial Officer or Treasurer of the Company, respectively, confirming the matters set forth in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this Section 8.
     (f) You shall have received on the Closing Date an opinion (satisfactory to you and counsel for the Underwriter), dated the Closing Date, of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP, special counsel for the Company, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto.
     (g) You shall have received on the Closing Date letters, dated the Closing Date, of Cahill Gordon and Reindel llp, counsel for the Underwriter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Underwriter.
     (h) You shall have received letters on and as of the Closing Date, in form and substance satisfactory to you, from Ernst & Young LLP, independent public accountants, with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus and substantially in the form and substance of the letter previously delivered to you by Ernst & Young LLP in connection with the Registration Statement and the Prospectus.
     (i) (i) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries shall have sustained since the date of the latest audited financial statements in the Prospectus any loss or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor dispute or court or governmental action, order or decree, otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the Prospectus or (ii) since such date there shall not have been any change in the capital stock, net revenues, per share or total amounts of income before extraordinary items or of net income or long-term debt of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any change, or any development involving a prospective change, in or affecting the general affairs, management, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Com-
 
pany and its subsidiaries, otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the Prospectus, the effect of which, in any such case described in clause (i) or (ii), is, in the judgment of the Underwriter, so material and adverse as to make it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the public offering or the delivery of the Securities being delivered on the Closing Date on the terms and in the manner contemplated in the Prospectus.
     (j) The Issuers shall have furnished to you such other documents and certificates as to the accuracy and completeness of any statement in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus as you reasonably may request.
     (k) You shall have been furnished with such additional documents and certificates as you or counsel for the Underwriter may reasonably request.
     All such opinions, certificates, letters and other documents will be in compliance with the provisions hereof only if they are reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to you and your counsel.
     Any certificate or document signed by any officer of the Issuers and delivered to you or to your counsel shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Issuers to the Underwriter as to the statements made therein.
     9. Termination. This Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the Closing Date by Citigroup Global Markets Inc. by written notice to the Issuers if any of the following has occurred: (i) since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, any material adverse change or development involving a prospective material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, of the Company and its subsidiaries or the earnings, affairs, or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, which would, in your judgment, make it impracticable to market the Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated in the Prospectus, (ii) any outbreak or escalation of hostilities or other national or international calamity or crisis or change in economic conditions or in the financial markets of the United States or elsewhere that, in your judgment, is material and adverse and would, in your judgment, make it impracticable to market the Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated in the Prospectus, (iii) the suspension or material limitation of trading in securities on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq National Market or limitation on prices for securities on any such exchange, (iv) the enactment, publication, decree or other promulgation of any federal or state statute, regulation, rule or order of any court or other governmental authority which in your opinion materially and adversely affects, or will materially and adversely affect, the business or operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, (v) the declaration of a banking moratorium by either federal or New York State authorities or (vi) the taking of any action by any federal, state or local government or agency in respect of its mone-
 
tary or fiscal affairs which in your opinion has a material adverse effect on the financial markets in the United States.
     10. Miscellaneous. Notices given pursuant to any provision of this Agreement shall be addressed as follows: (a) if to the Issuers, to D.R. Horton, Inc., 301 Commerce Street, Fort Worth, Texas 76102, Attention: Chief Financial Officer, and (b) if to the Underwriter, to Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013, Attention: General Counsel, or in any case to such other address as the person to be notified may have requested in writing.
     The respective indemnities, contribution agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company, its officers and directors (in their capacities as such) and of the Underwriter set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement shall remain operative and in full force and effect, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Securities, regardless of (i) any investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of the Underwriter or by or on behalf of the Company, the officers or directors of the Company or any controlling person of the Company (in their capacities as such), (ii) acceptance of the Securities and payment for them hereunder and (iii) termination of this Agreement.
     If this Agreement shall be terminated by the Underwriter because of any failure or refusal on the part of any Issuer to perform any of its agreements in this Agreement or to fulfill any of the conditions of Section 8 of this Agreement, the Issuers, jointly and severally, agree to reimburse the Underwriter for all out-of-pocket expenses (including the fees and disbursements of counsel) reasonably incurred by it.
     Except as otherwise provided, this Agreement has been and is made solely for the benefit of and shall be binding upon the Issuers, the Underwriter, any controlling persons referred to herein, the other indemnitees referred to herein and their respective successors and assigns, all as and to the extent provided in this Agreement, and no other person shall acquire or have any right under or by virtue of this Agreement. The term "successors and assigns" shall not include a purchaser of any of the Securities from the Underwriter merely because of such purchase.
     This Agreement shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
     This Agreement may be signed in various counterparts which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
 
     Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the agreement between the Issuers and the Underwriter.
 
GUARANTORS:
C. RICHARD DOBSON BUILDERS, INC. CHTEX OF TEXAS, INC. CONTINENTAL RESIDENTIAL, INC. D.R. HORTON, INC.  BIRMINGHAM D.R. HORTON, INC.  CHICAGO D.R. HORTON, INC.  DENVER D.R. HORTON, INC.  DIETZ-CRANE D.R. HORTON, INC.  GREENSBORO D.R. HORTON, INC.  JACKSONVILLE D.R. HORTON, INC.  LOUISVILLE D.R. HORTON, INC.  MINNESOTA D.R. HORTON, INC.  NEW JERSEY D.R. HORTON, INC.  PORTLAND D.R. HORTON, INC.  SACRAMENTO D.R. HORTON, INC.  TORREY D.R. HORTON LOS ANGELES HOLDING COMPANY, INC. D.R. HORTON MATERIALS, INC. D.R. HORTON SAN DIEGO HOLDING COMPANY, INC. DRH CAMBRIDGE HOMES, INC. DRH ENERGY, INC. DRH REGREM IV, INC. DRH REGREM V, INC. MEADOWS I, LTD. MEADOWS VIII, LTD. MEADOWS IX, INC. MEADOWS X, INC. MELMORT CO. SCHULER HOMES OF CALIFORNIA, INC. SCHULER HOMES OF OREGON, INC. SCHULER HOMES OF WASHINGTON, INC. SCHULER MORTGAGE, INC. SCHULER REALTY HAWAII, INC. SHLR OF CALIFORNIA, INC. SHLR OF COLORADO, INC. SHLR OF NEVADA, INC. SHLR OF UTAH, INC. SHLR OF WASHINGTON, INC. VERTICAL CONSTRUCTION CORPORATION WESTERN PACIFIC FUNDING, INC. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING, INC. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING MANAGEMENT, INC.
 
CH INVESTMENTS OF TEXAS, INC. MEADOWS II, LTD. THE CLUB AT PRADERA, INC.
 
CHI CONSTRUCTION COMPANY CONTINENTAL HOMES, INC. DRH CONSTRUCTION, INC. DRH SOUTHWEST CONSTRUCTION, INC. DRH TUCSON CONSTRUCTION, INC. DRHI, INC. KDB HOMES, INC. MELODY HOMES, INC.
CONTINENTAL HOMES OF TEXAS, L.P.
D.R. HORTON MANAGEMENT COMPANY, LTD. D.R. HORTON  EMERALD, LTD. D.R. HORTON  TEXAS, LTD. DRH REGREM VII, LP
 
SGS COMMUNITIES AT GRANDE QUAY, LLC
and
DRH CAMBRIDGE HOMES, LLC DRH REGREM VIII, LLC
 
       
HPH HOMEBUILDERS 2000 L.P. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING CO., A CALIFORNIA LIMITED
PARTNERSHIP WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-ANTIGUA, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-AVIARA, L.P. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-BOARDWALK, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-BROADWAY, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-CANYON PARK, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-CARMEL, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-CARRILLO, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-COMMUNICATIONS HILL, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-COPPER CANYON, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-CREEKSIDE, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-CULVER CITY, L.P. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-DEL VALLE, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-LOMAS VERDES, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-LOST HILLS PARK, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-MCGONIGLE CANYON, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-MOUNTAINGATE, L.P. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-NORCO ESTATES, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-OSO, L.P. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-PACIFIC PARK II, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-PARK AVENUE EAST, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-PARK AVENUE WEST, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-PLAYA VISTA, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-POINSETTIA, L.P. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-RIVER RIDGE, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-ROBINHOOD RIDGE, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-SANTA FE, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-SCRIPPS, L.P. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-SCRIPPS II, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-SEACOVE, L.P. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-STUDIO 528, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-TERRA BAY DUETS, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-TORRANCE, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-TORREY COMMERCIAL, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-TORREY MEADOWS, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-TORREY MULTI-FAMILY, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-TORREY VILLAGE CENTER, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-VINEYARD TERRACE, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-WINDEMERE, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-WINDFLOWER, L.P. WPH-CAMINO RUIZ, LLC
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
     (i)   The Company is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware and has all corporate power and authority necessary to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the Notes. Each of the Guarantors that are organized under the laws of the States of California, Colorado, Delaware, Nevada and Texas (the "Specified Guarantors") that is a corporation is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of its state of incorporation and has all corporate power and authority necessary to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the Guarantees. Each Specified Guarantor that is a limited liability company or a limited partnership is validly existing as a limited liability company or a limited partnership, as the case may be, under the laws of its state of its formation and has all limited liability company or partnership power and authority necessary to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the Guarantees.
     (ii)   To such counsel's knowledge and other than as described in the Prospectus, there are no legal or governmental proceedings pending to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is the subject which is of a character which is required to be disclosed in the Prospectus; and, to such counsel's knowledge, no such proceedings are threatened by governmental authorities or by others.
     (iii)   The Registration Statement was declared effective under the Act as of the date and time specified in such opinion, the Prospectus was filed with the Commission pursuant to the subparagraph of Rule 424(b) under the Act on the date specified therein, and, to such counsel's knowledge, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceeding for that purpose is pending or threatened by the Commission.
     (iv)   The Registration Statement and the Prospectus and any further amendments or supplements thereto made by the Company prior to the Closing Date (other than the financial data (and the related notes thereto) and statistical data and the financial statements and related schedules therein, as to which such counsel need express no opinion) appear on their face to comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Act; the documents incorporated by reference in the Prospectus and any further amendment or supplement to any such incorporated document made by the Company prior to the Closing Date (other than the financial data (and the related notes thereto) and statistical data and the financial statements, and related schedules therein, as to which such counsel need express no
 
opinion), when they were filed with the Commission appear on their face to have been appropriately responsive in all material respects to the requirements of the Act and the Exchange Act.
     (v)   To such counsel's knowledge, there are no contracts or other documents which are required to be described in the Prospectus or filed as exhibits to the Registration Statement by the Act which have not been described in the Prospectus or filed as exhibits to the Registration Statement or incorporated therein by reference as permitted by the Act.
     (vi)   The Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Issuers.
     (vii)   The execution and delivery of the Underwriting Agreement, the issuance and sale of the Securities and the execution, delivery and performance of the Indenture and the Securities by the Issuers will not result in a material breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a material default under, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other material agreement or instrument listed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2004 or to any subsequent filing under the Exchange Act or the Act by the Company, nor will such actions result in any violation of the provisions of the articles or certificates of incorporation, bylaws, limited liability company agreement, limited partnership agreement, operating agreement or other constitutive document of the Company or any Specified Guarantor under any Applicable Law (as defined below) or any order, judgment or decree known to us under any court or government agency or body of the United States of America or the States of New York, California or Texas having jurisdiction over the Company or any Specified Guarantor or any of its property or assets under any Applicable Law.
     For the purposes of this clause (vii), the term "Applicable Law" shall mean the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act and the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, the Nevada General Corporation Law, the present corporation, partnership and limited liability company statutes of the States of California, Texas and Colorado, any of the present laws of the United States of America, any of the present laws of the State of New York, the statutes, rules or regulations of the State of California and Texas, in each case generally applicable to transactions in the nature of those contemplated by the Underwriting Agreement and the Indenture, and to present judicial interpretations thereto and to the facts as they presently exist.
     (viii)   The Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and the Specified Guarantors and is a valid and binding agreement of the Company and the Guarantors, enforceable against the Company and the Guarantors in accordance with its terms.
 
     (ix)   The Notes have been duly authorized and executed by the Company and, when authenticated in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and delivered to the Underwriter against payment therefor as provided by the Agreement, will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture, and will be valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms.
     (x)   The Guarantees have been duly authorized and endorsed on the Notes by the Guarantors, and, upon authentication of the Notes in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and delivery thereof to the Underwriter against payment therefor as provided by the Agreement, will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture, and will be valid and binding obligations of the Guarantors, enforceable against the Guarantors in accordance with their terms.
     (xi)   The Securities and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the descriptions thereof in the Prospectus.
     (xii)   The Supplemental Indenture is (x) authorized and permitted by the Indenture, (y) not inconsistent with the Indenture and (z) valid and binding upon the Issuers in accordance with its terms.
     In rendering such opinion, such counsel may state that its opinion is limited to the Federal laws of the United States of America, the laws of the States of Texas and New York and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
     Such counsel shall also have furnished to the Underwriter a written statement, addressed to the Underwriter and dated the Closing Date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Underwriter and counsel for the Underwriter, to the effect that (x) such counsel has acted as special counsel to the Company in connection with the preparation of the Registration Statement and during the course of the preparation of the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, such counsel participated in conferences with representatives of the Company, the Company's internal counsel, and its accountants and the representatives of the Underwriter and at which conferences the contents of the Registration Statement and the Prospectus and related matters were discussed, and (y) based on the foregoing, no facts have come to the attention of such counsel which lead it to believe that (I) the Registration Statement (except as to financial data (and related notes thereto) and statistical data and the financial statements and related schedules contained or incorporated by reference therein), as of the date the Registration Statement became effective, contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading, or that the Prospectus (except as to financial data (and related notes thereto) and statistical data and the financial statements and related schedules contained or incorporated by reference therein) contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading
 
or (II) any Incorporated Document or any amendment or supplement thereto made by the Company prior to such Closing Date, when they were filed with the Commission, as the case may be, contained (except as to financial data (and related notes thereto) and statistical data and the financial statements and related schedules contained or incorporated by reference therein) an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The foregoing opinion and statement may be qualified by a statement to the effect that such counsel has not independently verified the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or incorporated by reference therein, and such counsel is not passing upon and such counsel does not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus.

 
Exhibit 4.1
 
 
          TWENTY-SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE dated as of December 15, 2004 ("Supplemental Indenture"), to the Indenture dated as of June 9, 1997 (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time in accordance therewith, the "Indenture"), by and among D.R. HORTON, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), each of the Guarantors (as defined herein) and AMERICAN STOCK TRANSFER & TRUST COMPANY, as trustee (the "Trustee").
          Each party agrees as follows for the benefit of the other party and for the equal and ratable benefit of the holders of Notes (as defined herein):
          WHEREAS, the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee have duly authorized the execution and delivery of the Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of senior debt securities (the "Securities") to be issued in one or more series as in the Indenture provided;
          WHEREAS, the Company and the Guarantors desire and have requested the Trustee to join them in the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture in order to establish and provide for the issuance by the Company of a series of Securities designated as its 5.625% Senior Notes due 2016, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A (the "Notes"), guaranteed by the Guarantors, on the terms set forth herein;
          WHEREAS, Section 2.01 of the Indenture provides that a supplemental indenture may be entered into by the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee for such purpose provided certain conditions are met;
          WHEREAS, the conditions set forth in the Indenture for the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture have been complied with; and
          WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee, in accordance with its terms, and a valid amendment of, and supplement to, the Indenture have been done;
          NOW, THEREFORE:
          In consideration of the premises and the purchase and acceptance of the Notes by the holders thereof the Company and the Guarantors mutually covenant and agree with the Trustee, for the equal and ratable benefit of the holders, that the Indenture is supplemented and amended, to the extent expressed herein, as follows:
 
          The changes, modifications and supplements to the Indenture effected by this Supplemental Indenture shall be applicable only with respect to, and govern the terms of, the Notes, which shall not be limited in aggregate principal amount, and shall not apply to any other Securities that may be issued under the Indenture unless a supplemental indenture with respect to such other Securities specifically incorporates such changes, modifications and supplements. Pursuant to this Supplemental Indenture, there is hereby created and designated a series of Securities under the Indenture entitled "5.625% Senior Notes due 2016." The Notes shall be in the form of Exhibit A hereto. The Notes shall be guaranteed by the Guarantors as provided in such form and the Indenture. If required, the Notes may bear an appropriate legend regarding original issue discount for federal income tax purposes.
          In the event that a partial redemption is made pursuant to paragraph 5 of the Notes, selection of the Notes or portions thereof for redemption shall be made by the Trustee only on a pro rata basis or on as nearly a pro rata basis as is practicable (subject to the procedures of The Depository Trust Company), unless that method is otherwise prohibited.
          The following terms have the meanings set forth below in this Supplemental Indenture. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Indenture. To the extent terms defined herein differ from the Indenture the terms defined herein will govern.
          "Attributable Debt" means, in respect of a Sale and Leaseback Transaction, the present value (discounted at the weighted average effective interest cost of the outstanding debt securities of the Company of all series, compounded semiannually) of the obligation of the lessee for rental payments during the remaining term of the lease included in such transaction, including any period for which such lease has been extended or may, at the option of the lessor, be extended or, if earlier, until the earliest date on which the lessee may terminate such lease upon payment of a penalty (in which case the obligation of the lessee for rental payments shall include such penalty), after excluding all amounts required to be paid on account of maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments, water and utility rates and similar charges.
per annum
 
          "Bankruptcy Law" means title 11 of the United States Code, as amended, or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
          "Business Day" means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in New York, New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
          "Capital Stock" means, with respect to any Person, any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated) of or in such Person's capital stock or other equity interests.
          "Capitalized Lease Obligations" of any Person means the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under a lease that is required to be capitalized for financial reporting purposes in accordance with GAAP.
          "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Reference Treasury Dealer as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
          "Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, (a) the average of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount, on the third business day preceding such redemption date, as set forth in the daily statistical release (or any successor release) published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and designated "Composite 3:30 p.m. Quotations for U.S. Government Securities" or (b) if such release (or any successor release) is not published or does not contain such price on such business day, (i) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
          "Consolidated Adjusted Tangible Assets" of the Company as of any date means the Consolidated Tangible Assets of the Company and the Restricted Subsidiaries at the end of the fiscal quarter immediately preceding the date (a) any assets securing any Non-Recourse Indebtedness, as determined in accordance with GAAP and (b) all short term liabilities of the Company and the Restricted Subsidiaries, except for liabilities payable by their terms more than one year from the date of determination (or renewable or extendible at the option of the obligor for a period ending more than one year after such date) and liabilities in respect of retiree benefits other than persons for which the Company or the Restricted Subsidiaries are required to accrue pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106.
less
 
          "Consolidated Tangible Assets" of the Company as of any date means the total amount of assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (less applicable reserves) on a consolidated basis at the end of the fiscal quarter immediately preceding such date, as determined in accordance with GAAP, less: (i) Intangible Assets and (ii) appropriate adjustments on account of minority interests of other Persons holding equity investments in Restricted Subsidiaries.
          "Credit Facilities" means, collectively, each of the credit facilities of the Company or one or more Restricted Subsidiaries in existence on the Issue Date and one or more other facilities among or between the Company or one or more Restricted Subsidiaries and one or more lenders pursuant to which the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may incur indebtedness for working capital and general corporate purposes (including acquisitions), as any such facility or line of credit may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, and includes any agreement extending the maturity of, increasing the amount of, or restructuring, all or any portion of the Indebtedness under any such facility or line of credit or any successor facilities or lines of credit and includes any facility or line of credit with one or more lenders refinancing or replacing all or any portion of the Indebtedness under such facility or line of credit or any successor facility or line of credit.
          "Currency Agreement" of any Person means any foreign exchange contract, currency swap agreement or other similar agreement or arrangement designed to protect such Person or any of its Subsidiaries against fluctuations in currency values.
          "Custodian" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
          "Default" means any event, act or condition that is, or after notice or the passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default.
          "Dollars" and "$" mean United States Dollars.
          "Event of Default" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.01.
          "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession of the United States, as in effect from time to time.
          "Guarantors" means (i) initially, each of:
 
          C. Richard Dobson Builders, Inc., a Virginia corporation;           CH Investments of Texas, Inc., a Delaware corporation;           CHI Construction Company, an Arizona corporation;           CHTEX of Texas, Inc., a Delaware corporation;           Continental Homes, Inc., a Delaware corporation;           Continental Homes of Texas, L.P., a Texas limited partnership;           Continental Residential, Inc., a California corporation;           D.R. Horton-Emerald, Ltd., a Texas limited partnership;           D.R. Horton, Inc.-Birmingham, an Alabama corporation;           D.R. Horton, Inc.-Chicago, a Delaware corporation;           D.R. Horton, Inc.-Denver, a Delaware corporation;           D.R. Horton, Inc.-Dietz-Crane, a Delaware corporation;           D.R. Horton, Inc.-Greensboro, a Delaware corporation;           D.R. Horton, Inc.-Jacksonville, a Delaware corporation;           D.R. Horton, Inc.-Louisville, a Delaware corporation;           D.R. Horton, Inc.-Minnesota, a Delaware corporation;           D.R. Horton, Inc.-New Jersey, a Delaware corporation;           D.R. Horton, Inc.-Portland, a Delaware corporation;           D.R. Horton, Inc.-Sacramento, a California corporation;           D.R. Horton, Inc.-Torrey, a Delaware corporation;           D.R. Horton Los Angeles Holding Company, Inc., a California corporation;           D.R. Horton Management Company, Ltd., a Texas limited partnership;           D.R. Horton Materials, Inc., a Delaware corporation;           D.R. Horton San Diego Holding Company, Inc., a California corporation;           D.R. Horton-Schuler Homes, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           D.R. Horton-Texas, Ltd., a Texas limited partnership;           DRH Cambridge Homes, Inc., a California corporation;           DRH Cambridge Homes, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           DRH Construction, Inc., a Delaware corporation;           DRH Energy, Inc., a Colorado corporation;           DRH Regrem IV, Inc., a Delaware corporation;           DRH Regrem V, Inc., a Delaware corporation;           DRH Regrem VII, LP, a Texas limited partnership;           DRH Regrem VIII, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           DRH Southwest Construction, Inc., a California corporation;           DRH Tucson Construction, Inc., a Delaware corporation;           DRHI, Inc., a Delaware corporation;           HPH Homebuilders 2000 L.P., a California limited partnership;           KDB Homes, Inc., a Delaware corporation;           Meadows I, Ltd., a Delaware corporation;           Meadows II, Ltd., a Delaware corporation;           Meadows VIII, Ltd., a Delaware corporation;           Meadows IX, Inc., a New Jersey corporation;
 
          Meadows X, Inc., a New Jersey corporation;           Melmort Co., a Colorado corporation;           Melody Homes, Inc., a Delaware corporation;           Schuler Homes of Arizona, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Schuler Homes of California, Inc., a California corporation;           Schuler Homes of Oregon, Inc., an Oregon corporation;           Schuler Homes of Washington, Inc., a Washington corporation;           Schuler Mortgage, Inc., a Delaware corporation;           Schuler Realty Hawaii, Inc., a Hawaii corporation;           SGS Communities at Grande Quay, LLC, a New Jersey limited liability company;           SHA Construction LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           SHLR of California, Inc., a California corporation;           SHLR of Colorado, Inc., a Colorado corporation;           SHLR of Nevada, Inc., a Nevada corporation;           SHLR of Utah, Inc., a Utah corporation;           SHLR of Washington, Inc., a Washington corporation;           SRHI LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           SSHI LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           The Club at Pradera, Inc., a Delaware corporation;           Vertical Construction Corporation, a Delaware corporation;           Western Pacific Funding, Inc., a California corporation;           Western Pacific Housing Co., a California limited partnership;           Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., a California corporation;           Western Pacific Housing, Inc., a Delaware corporation;           Western Pacific Housing-Antigua, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Aviara, L.P., a California limited partnership;           Western Pacific Housing-Boardwalk, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Broadway, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Canyon Park, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Carmel, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Carrillo, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Communications Hill, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Copper Canyon, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Creekside, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Culver City, L.P. , a California limited partnership;
 
          Western Pacific Housing-Del Valle, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Lomas Verdes, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Lost Hills Park, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-McGonigle Canyon, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Mountaingate, L.P., a California limited partnership;           Western Pacific Housing-Norco Estates, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Oso, L.P., a California limited partnership;           Western Pacific Housing-Pacific Park II, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Park Avenue East, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Park Avenue West, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Playa Vista, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Poinsettia, L.P., a California limited partnership;           Western Pacific Housing-River Ridge, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Robinhood Ridge, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Santa Fe, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Scripps II, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Scripps, L.P., a California limited partnership;           Western Pacific Housing-Seacove, L.P., a California limited partnership;           Western Pacific Housing-Studio 528, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Terra Bay Duets, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Torrance, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Torrey Commercial, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Torrey Meadows, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Torrey Multi-Family, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;           Western Pacific Housing-Torrey Village Center, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;
 
          Western Pacific Housing-Vineyard Terrace, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;
          Western Pacific Housing-Windemere, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;
          Western Pacific Housing-Windflower, L.P., a California limited partnership;
          WPH-Camino Ruiz, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;
and (ii) each of the Company's Subsidiaries which becomes, and is not subsequently released as, a guarantor of the Notes pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture. An Unrestricted Subsidiary may become a Guarantor if it (x) is so designated by resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company and (y) executes a supplemental indenture satisfactory to the Trustee.
          "Holder" means the Person in whose name a Note is registered in the books of the Registrar for the Notes.
          "Indebtedness" of any Person means, without duplication, (i) any liability of such Person (a) for borrowed money or under any reimbursement obligation relating to a letter of credit or other similar instruments (other than standby letters of credit or similar instrument issued for the benefit of or surety, performance, completion or payment bonds, earnest money notes or similar purpose undertakings or indemnifications issued by, such Person in the ordinary course of business), (b) evidenced by a bond, note, debenture or similar instrument (including a purchase money obligation) given in connection with the acquisition of any businesses, properties or assets of any kind or with services incurred in connection with capital expenditures (other than any obligation to pay a contingent purchase price which, as of the date of incurrence thereof is not required to be recorded as a liability in accordance with GAAP), or (c) in respect of Capitalized Lease Obligations (to the extent of the capitalized amount thereof determined in accordance with GAAP), (ii) any Indebtedness of others described in clause (i) above that such Person has guaranteed to the extent of the guarantee and (iii) all Indebtedness of others described in clause (i) above secured by a Security Interest on any property of such Person, whether or not such Indebtedness is assumed by such Person; provided, that Indebtedness shall not include accounts payable, liabilities to trade creditors of such Person or other accrued expenses arising in the ordinary course of business or obligations under Currency Agreements or Interest Protection Agreements.
          "Indenture" has the meaning provided in the Recitals.
          "Intangible Assets" of the Company means all unamortized debt discount and expense, unamortized deferred charges, goodwill, patents, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, writeups of assets over their prior carrying value (other than write-ups which occurred prior to the Issue Date and other than, in connection with the acquisition of an asset, the write-up of the value of such asset (within one year of its acquisition) to its fair market value in accordance with GAAP) and all other items which would be treated as intan-
 
gibles on the consolidated balance sheet of the Company and the Restricted Subsidiaries prepared in accordance with GAAP.
          "Interest Protection Agreement" of any Person means any interest rate swap agreement, interest rate collar agreement, option or futures contract or other similar agreement or arrangement designed to protect such Person or any of its Subsidiaries against fluctuations in interest rates with respect to Indebtedness.
          "Issue Date" means the date on which the Notes are originally issued under this Supplemental Indenture.
          "Non-Recourse Indebtedness" with respect to any Person means Indebtedness of such Person for which (i) the sole legal recourse for collection of principal and interest on such Indebtedness is against the specific property identified in the instruments evidencing or securing such Indebtedness and such property was acquired with the proceeds of such Indebtedness or such Indebtedness was incurred within 180 days after the acquisition of such property and (ii) no other assets of such Person may be realized upon in collection of principal or interest on such Indebtedness. Indebtedness which is otherwise Non-Recourse Indebtedness will not lose its character as Non-Recourse Indebtedness because there is recourse to the borrower, any guarantor or any other Person for (i) environmental warranties and indemnities, or (ii) indemnities for and liabilities arising from fraud, misrepresentation, misapplication or non-payment of rents, profits, insurance and condemnation proceeds and other sums actually received by the borrower from secured assets to be paid to the lender, waste and mechanics' liens.
          "Notes" has the meaning provided in the Recitals.
          "Paying Agent" means the Trustee or any successor paying agent.
          "Permitted Liens" means any mortgage, pledge, lien or security interest:
     (1) incurred or deposits made to secure the performance of tenders, bids, leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, development obligations, progress payments, government contracts, utility services, developer's or other obligations to make on-site or off-site improvements and other obligations of like nature (exclusive of obligations for the payment of borrowed money but including the items referred to in the parenthetical in clause (i)(a) of the definition of "Indebtedness"), in each case incurred in the ordinary course of business of the Company and the Restricted Subsidiaries,
     (2) constituting attachment or judgment liens,
 
     (3) securing Non-Recourse Indebtedness of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary; that it applies only to the property financed out of the net proceeds of such Non-Recourse Indebtedness within 180 days after the incurrence of such Non-Recourse Indebtedness,
provided,
     (4) securing Purchase Money Indebtedness; that it applies only to the property acquired, constructed or improved with the proceeds of such Purchase Money Indebtedness within 180 days after the incurrence of such Purchase Money Indebtedness,
provided,
     (5) constituting purchase money security interests (including, without limitation, Capitalized Lease Obligations); that it applies only to the property acquired and the related Indebtedness is incurred within 180 days after the acquisition of such property,
provided,
     (6) constituting the right of a lender or lenders to which the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary may be indebted to offset against, or appropriate and apply to the payment of such, Indebtedness any and all balances, credits, deposits, accounts or money of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary with or held by such lender or lenders or its affiliates,
     (7) constituting the pledge or deposit of cash or property in conjunction with obtaining surety, performance, completion or payment bonds and letters of credit or other similar instruments or providing earnest money obligations, escrows or similar purpose undertakings or indemnifications in the ordinary course of business of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, and
     (8) incurred in connection with pollution control, industrial revenue, water, sewage or any similar bonds.
          "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, incorporated or unincorporated association, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
          "Purchase Money Indebtedness" means Indebtedness of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price, or the cost of construction or improvement, of any property to be used in the ordinary course of business by the Company and the Restricted Subsidiaries; provided, however, that (i) the aggregate principal amount of such Indebtedness shall not exceed such purchase price or cost and (ii) such Indebtedness shall be incurred no later than 90 days after the acquisition of such property or completion of such construction or improvement.
 
          "Reference Treasury Dealer" means (a) Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (or any of its affiliates which are Primary Treasury Dealers), and their respective successors; , that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (b) any other Primary Treasury Dealer(s) selected by the Company.
provided
however
          "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
          "Registrar" means American Stock Transfer & Trust Company or any successor registrar of the Notes.
          "Remaining Scheduled Payments" means, with respect to any Note, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof to be redeemed and interest thereon that would be due after the related redemption date but for such redemption; provided however that if such redemption date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to such Note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such redemption.
          "Restricted Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary of the Company which is not an Unrestricted Subsidiary.
          "Sale and Leaseback Transaction" means a sale or transfer made by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary (except a sale or transfer made to the Company or another Restricted Subsidiary) of any property which is either (a) a manufacturing facility, project club house, amenity center and common area, office building, warehouse or distribution facility whose book value equals or exceeds 1% of Consolidated Adjusted Tangible Assets as of the date of determination or (b) another property which exceeds 5% of Consolidated Adjusted Tangible Assets as of the date of determination, if such sale or transfer is made with the agreement, commitment or intention of leasing such property to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary.
          "Secured Debt" means any Indebtedness which is secured by (a) a Security Interest in any property of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary or (b) a Security Interest in Capital Stock owned directly or indirectly by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary in a corporation or other entity (other than an Unrestricted Subsidiary) or in the rights of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary in respect of Indebtedness of a corporation or other entity (other than an Unrestricted Subsidiary) in which the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary owns Capital Stock. The securing in the foregoing manner of any such Indebtedness which
 
immediately prior thereto was not Secured Debt shall be deemed to be the creation of Secured Debt at the time security is given.
          "Security Interest" means any mortgage, pledge, lien, or other security interest which secures the payment or performance of an obligation.
          "Senior Indebtedness" means the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on (including interest accruing after the occurrence of an event of default or after the filing of a petition initiating any proceeding pursuant to any Bankruptcy Law whether or not such interest is an allowable claim in any such proceeding) and other amounts due on or in connection with any Indebtedness, whether outstanding on the date hereof or hereafter created, incurred or assumed, unless, in the case of any particular Indebtedness, the instrument creating or evidencing the same or pursuant to which the same is outstanding expressly provides that such Indebtedness shall not be senior in right of payment to the debt securities under the Indenture. Notwithstanding the foregoing, "Senior Indebtedness" shall not include (1) Indebtedness that is expressly subordinated in right of payment to any Senior Indebtedness, (2) Indebtedness that by operation of law is subordinate to any of general unsecured obligations, (3) Indebtedness to any Subsidiary or (4) Indebtedness incurred in violation of the restrictions described under "Restrictions on Secured Debt" and "Restrictions on Sale and Leaseback Transactions."
          "Significant Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary of the Company which would constitute a "significant subsidiary" as defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act.
          "Subsidiary" of any Person means any corporation or other entity of which a majority of the Capital Stock having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the Board of Directors or other persons performing similar functions is at the time directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such Person.
          "Successor" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01.
          "Supplemental Indenture" has the meaning provided in the Preamble.
          "Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
          "Trustee" means the party named as such above until a successor replaces such party in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Indenture and thereafter means the successor serving hereunder.
 
          "Unrestricted Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary of the Company (1) that is engaged in (a) mortgage banking (including mortgage origination, loan servicing, mortgage brokerage and related businesses), master servicing or related activities, including, without limitation, a Subsidiary which facilitates the financing of mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities and the securitization of mortgage-backed bonds and other related activities or (b) title insurance, title agency, escrow or related businesses; (2) that is engaged in the insurance business; or (3) that does not guarantee the Indebtedness (other than the Notes) outstanding under any of the Credit Facilities, the Indenture, dated as of June 9, 1997, among the Company, the guarantors named therein and the Trustee (as amended or supplemented from time to time) or the Indenture, dated as of September 11, 2000, among the Company, the guarantors named therein and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company (as amended or supplemented from time to time).
Section 3.01. Right of Redemption.
          Redemption of Notes, as permitted by any provision of this Indenture, shall be made in accordance with such provision, Article Three of this Supplemental Indenture and paragraph 5 of the Notes.
          The Notes may be redeemed at the election of the Company, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, on at least 30 but not more than 60 days' prior notice, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of the following amounts: (i) 100% of their principal amount; or (ii) the present value of the Remaining Scheduled Payments on the Notes being redeemed on the Redemption Date, discounted to the Redemption Date, on a semiannual basis, at the Treasury Rate plus 30 basis points (0.30%), plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes to the Redemption Date. In determining the Redemption Price and accrued interest, interest shall be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
          If money sufficient to pay the redemption price of and accrued interest on the Notes to be redeemed is deposited with the Trustee on or before the Redemption Date, on and after the Redemption Date interest will cease to accrue on the Notes (or such portions thereof) called for redemption and the Notes will cease to be outstanding.
 
Section 4.01. Restrictions on Secured Debt.
          The Company will not, and will not cause or permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or guarantee any Secured Debt unless the Notes will be secured equally and ratably with (or prior to) such Secured Debt, with certain exceptions. This restriction does not prohibit the creation, incurrence, assumption or guarantee of:
     (1) Secured Debt which is secured by Security Interests on model homes, homes held for sale, homes that are under construction or under contract for sale, contracts for the sale of homes, land (improved or unimproved), contracts for the sale of land, project club houses, amenity centers and common areas, manufacturing plants, warehouses, distribution facilities or office buildings and fixtures and equipment located thereat or thereon or leasehold or other interests therein;
     (2) Secured Debt which is secured by a Security Interest on property at the time of its acquisition by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, which Security Interest secures obligations assumed by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, or on the property of a corporation or other entity at the time it is merged into or consolidated with the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary (other than Secured Debt created in contemplation of the acquisition of such property or the consummation of such a merger or consolidation or where the Security Interest attaches to or affects the property of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary prior to such transaction);
     (3) Secured Debt which is secured by Security Interests arising from conditional sales agreements or title retention agreements with respect to property acquired by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary;
     (4) Secured Debt which is secured by Security Interests securing Indebtedness of a Restricted Subsidiary owing to the Company or to another Restricted Subsidiary; and
     (5) (x) Indebtedness secured by a Permitted Lien or (y) Indebtedness that is not Secured Debt
or restrict the ability of any Unrestricted Subsidiary to create, incur, assume or guarantee any secured or unsecured Indebtedness.
Additionally, such permitted Secured Debt includes any amendment, restatement, supplement, renewal, replacement, extension, refinancing or refunding, in whole or in part, of Secured
 
Debt permitted at the time of the original creation, incurrence, assumption or guarantee thereof.
          In addition, the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries may create, incur, assume or guarantee Secured Debt, without equally or ratably securing the Notes, if immediately thereafter the sum of (1) the aggregate principal amount of all Secured Debt outstanding (excluding Secured Debt permitted under clauses (1) through (5) above and any Secured Debt in relation to which the Notes have been secured equally and ratably (or prior to)) and (2) all Attributable Debt in respect of Sale and Leaseback Transactions (excluding Attributable Debt in respect of Sale and Leaseback Transactions satisfying the conditions set forth in clauses (1), (2) and (3) under Section 4.02) as of the date of determination would not exceed 20% of Consolidated Adjusted Tangible Assets.
Section 4.02. Restrictions on Sale and Leaseback Transactions.
          The Company will not, and will not cause or permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction, unless:
     (1) notice is promptly given to the Trustee of the Sale and Leaseback Transaction;
     (2) fair value is received by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary for the property sold (as determined in good faith pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company delivered to the Trustee); and
     (3) the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, within 365 days after the completion of the Sale and Leaseback Transaction, applies an amount equal to the net proceeds therefrom either:
In addition, the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries may enter into a Sale and Leaseback Transaction if immediately thereafter the sum of (1) the aggregate principal amount of all Secured Debt outstanding (excluding Secured Debt permitted under clauses (1) through (5) described in Section 4.01 above or Secured Debt in relation to which the Notes have been secured equally and ratably (or prior to)) and (2) all Attributable Debt in respect of Sale and Leaseback Transactions (excluding Attributable Debt in respect of Sale and Leaseback Trans-
 
actions satisfying the conditions set forth in clauses (1), (2) and (3) above) as of the date of determination would not exceed 20% of Consolidated Adjusted Tangible Assets.
Section 5.01. Limitations on Mergers, Consolidations and Sales of Assets.
          Neither the Company nor any Guarantor will consolidate or merge with or into, or sell, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets (including, without limitation, by way of liquidation or dissolution), or assign any of its obligations under the Notes, the Guarantees or this Indenture (as an entirety or substantially in one transaction or in a series of related transactions), to any Person (in each case other than in a transaction in which the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary is the survivor of a consolidation or merger, or the transferee in a sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition) unless:
     (1) the Person formed by or surviving such consolidation or merger (if other than the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be), or to which such sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition or assignment will be made (collectively, the "Successor"), is a corporation or other legal entity organized and existing under the laws of the United States or any state thereof or the District of Columbia, and the Successor assumes by supplemental indenture in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee all of the obligations of the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be, under the Notes or a Guarantee, as the case may be, and the Indenture, and
     (2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
     The foregoing provisions shall not apply to:
 
          Upon any such consolidation, merger, sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition or assignment, the successor corporation will be substituted for the Company or the relevant Guarantor under the Indenture. The Successor may then exercise every power and right of the Company or the relevant Guarantor under the Indenture, and the Company or the relevant Guarantor will be released from all of its liabilities and obligations in respect of the Notes and the Indenture. If the Company or a Guarantor leases all or substantially all of its assets, the lessee corporation will be the Successor to the Company or such Guarantor and may exercise every power and right of the Company or such Guarantor under the Indenture, but the Company or such Guarantor will not be released from its obligations to pay the principal of and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Notes.
          Section 6.01 and Section 6.02 of the Indenture are replaced with the following in its entirety:
Section 6.01. Events of Default.
          The following are Events of Default under this Indenture:
     (1) the failure by the Company to pay interest on any Note when the same becomes due and payable and the continuance of any such failure for a period of 30 days;
     (2) the failure by the Company to pay the principal or premium of any Note when the same becomes due and payable at maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise;
     (3) the failure by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary to comply with any of its agreements or covenants in, or provisions of, the Notes, the Guarantees or the Indenture and such failure continues for the period and after the notice specified below (except in the case of a default under Section 5.01 which will constitute an Event of Default with notice but without passage of time);
     (4) the acceleration of any Indebtedness (other than Non-Recourse Indebtedness) of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary that has an outstanding principal amount of $50 million or more, individually or in the aggregate, and such acceleration does not cease to exist, or such Indebtedness is not satisfied, in either case within 30 days after such acceleration;
 
     (5) the failure by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary to make any principal or interest payment in an amount of $50 million or more, individually or in the aggregate, in respect of Indebtedness (other than Non-Recourse Indebtedness) of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary within 30 days of such principal or interest becoming due and payable (after giving effect to any applicable grace period set forth in the documents governing such Indebtedness);
     (6) the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary that is a Significant Subsidiary pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law:
     (7) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:
     (8) any Guarantee of a Guarantor which is a Significant Subsidiary ceases to be in full force and effect (other than in accordance with the terms of such Guarantee and the Indenture) or is declared null and void and unenforceable or found to be invalid or any Guarantor denies its liability under its Guarantee (other than by reason of release of a Guarantor from its Guarantee in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and the Guarantee).
 
          A Default as described in subclause (3) above will not be deemed an Event of Default until the Trustee notifies the Company, or the Holders of at least 25 percent in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes notify the Company and the Trustee, of the Default and (except in the case of a default with respect to the covenant described under Section 5.01) the Company does not cure the Default within 60 days after receipt of the notice. The notice must specify the Default, demand that it be remedied and state that the notice is a "Notice of Default." If such a Default is cured within such time period, it ceases.
Section 6.02. Acceleration.
          If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default with respect to the Company resulting from subclauses (6) or (7) above), shall have occurred and be continuing under the Indenture, the Trustee by notice to the Company, or the Holders of at least 25 percent in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding by notice to the Company and the Trustee, may declare all Notes to be due and payable immediately. Upon such declaration of acceleration, the amounts due and payable on the Notes will be due and payable immediately. If an Event of Default with respect to the Company specified in subclauses (6) or (7) above occurs, such an amount will become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration, notice or other act on the part of the Trustee and the Company or any Holder.
ipso facto
          The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding by written notice to the Trustee and the Company may waive any Default or Event of Default (other than any Default or Event of Default in payment of principal or interest) on the Notes under the Indenture. Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may rescind an acceleration and its consequence (except an acceleration due to nonpayment of principal or interest on the Notes) if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree and if all existing Events of Default (other than the non-payment of accelerated principal) have been cured or waived. No such rescission shall extend to or shall affect any subsequent Event of Default, or shall impair any right or power consequent thereon.
Section 7.01. Governing Law.
          The laws of the State of New York shall govern this Supplemental Indenture, the Securities of each Series and the Guarantees.
 
Section 7.02. No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements.
          This Supplemental Indenture may not be used to interpret another indenture, loan or debt agreement of the Company or a Subsidiary. Any such indenture, loan or debt agreement may not be used to interpret this Supplemental Indenture.
Section 7.03. No Recourse Against Others.
          All liability described in paragraph 12 of the Notes of any director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company or any Guarantor is waived and released.
Section 7.04. Successors and Assigns.
          All covenants and agreements of the Company and the Guarantors in this Supplemental Indenture and the Notes shall bind its successors and assigns. All agreements of the Trustee in this Supplemental Indenture shall bind its successors and assigns.
Section 7.05. Duplicate Originals.
          The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
Section 7.06. Severability.
          In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions of this Supplemental Indenture or of the Notes.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the date first above written.
 
GUARANTORS:
C. RICHARD DOBSON BUILDERS, INC. CHTEX OF TEXAS, INC. CONTINENTAL RESIDENTIAL, INC. D.R. HORTON, INC.  BIRMINGHAM D.R. HORTON, INC.  CHICAGO D.R. HORTON, INC.  DENVER D.R. HORTON, INC.  DIETZ-CRANE D.R. HORTON, INC.  GREENSBORO D.R. HORTON, INC.  JACKSONVILLE D.R. HORTON, INC.  LOUISVILLE D.R. HORTON, INC.  MINNESOTA D.R. HORTON, INC.  NEW JERSEY D.R. HORTON, INC.  PORTLAND D.R. HORTON, INC.  SACRAMENTO D.R. HORTON, INC.  TORREY D.R. HORTON LOS ANGELES HOLDING COMPANY, INC. D.R. HORTON MATERIALS, INC. D.R. HORTON SAN DIEGO HOLDING COMPANY, INC. DRH CAMBRIDGE HOMES, INC. DRH ENERGY, INC. DRH REGREM IV, INC. DRH REGREM V, INC. MEADOWS I, LTD. MEADOWS VIII, LTD. MEADOWS IX, INC. MEADOWS X, INC. MELMORT CO. SCHULER HOMES OF CALIFORNIA, INC. SCHULER HOMES OF OREGON, INC. SCHULER HOMES OF WASHINGTON, INC. SCHULER MORTGAGE, INC. SCHULER REALTY HAWAII, INC. SHLR OF CALIFORNIA, INC. SHLR OF COLORADO, INC. SHLR OF NEVADA, INC. SHLR OF UTAH, INC. SHLR OF WASHINGTON, INC. VERTICAL CONSTRUCTION CORPORATION WESTERN PACIFIC FUNDING, INC. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING, INC. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING MANAGEMENT, INC.
 
 
 
 
HPH HOMEBUILDERS 2000 L.P. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING CO., A CALIFORNIA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-ANTIGUA, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-AVIARA, L.P. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-BOARDWALK, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-BROADWAY, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-CANYON PARK, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-CARMEL, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-CARRILLO, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-COMMUNICATIONS HILL, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-COPPER CANYON, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-CREEKSIDE, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-CULVER CITY, L.P. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-DEL VALLE, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-LOMAS VERDES, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-LOST HILLS PARK, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-MCGONIGLE CANYON, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-MOUNTAINGATE, L.P. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-NORCO ESTATES, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-OSO, L.P. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-PACIFIC PARK II, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-PARK AVENUE EAST, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-PARK AVENUE WEST, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-PLAYA VISTA, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-POINSETTIA, L.P. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-RIVER RIDGE, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-ROBINHOOD RIDGE, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-SANTA FE, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-SCRIPPS, L.P. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-SCRIPPS II, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-SEACOVE, L.P. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-STUDIO 528, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-TERRA BAY DUETS, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-TORRANCE, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-TORREY COMMERCIAL, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-TORREY MEADOWS, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-TORREY MULTI-FAMILY, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-TORREY VILLAGE CENTER, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-VINEYARD TERRACE, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-WINDEMERE, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-WINDFLOWER, L.P. WPH-CAMINO RUIZ, LLC
 
 
 
Exhibit A
     THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE OF A DEPOSITORY OR A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY. THIS SECURITY IS NOT EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITORY OR ITS NOMINEE EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITORY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TO THE DEPOSITORY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY) MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
     UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
D.R. Horton, Inc., a Delaware corporation, promises to pay to
                   
                   
                   
Interest Payment Dates: January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2005
Interest Record Dates: January 1 and July 1
American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as Trustee, certifies that this is one of the Securities referred to in the within mentioned Indenture.
     Date:
 
1. Interest.
          D.R. HORTON, INC. (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation, promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Security at the rate per annum shown above. The Company will pay interest semiannually on January 15 and July 15 of each year, commencing July 15, 2005, until the principal is paid or made available for payment. Interest on the Securities will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of original issuance, provided that, if there is no existing default in the payment of interest, and if this Security is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding interest payment date, interest shall accrue from such interest payment date. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
2. Method of Payment.
          The Company will pay interest on the Securities (except defaulted interest, if any, which will be paid on such special payment date to Holders of record on such special record date as may be fixed by the Company) to the persons who are registered Holders of Securities at the close of business on the January 1 and July 1 immediately preceding the interest payment date. Holders must surrender Securities to a Paying Agent to collect principal payments. The Company will pay principal and interest in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
3. Paying Agent and Registrar.
          Initially, American Stock Transfer & Trust Company (the "Trustee") will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change or appoint any Paying Agent, Registrar or co-Registrar without notice. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates may act as Paying Agent, Registrar or co-registrar.
4. Indenture.
          The Company issued the Securities under an Indenture dated as of June 9, 1997 among the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee, as supplemented (the "Indenture"). The terms of the Securities and the Guarantees include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in effect on the date of the Indenture. The Securities and the Guarantees are subject to all such
 
terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and the Act for a statement of them. Capitalized terms not defined herein have the meanings given to those terms in the Indenture.
          The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture and the applicable Authorizing Resolution or supplemental indenture. Requests may be made to: D.R. Horton, Inc., 301 Commerce St., Suite 500, Fort Worth, Texas 76102, Attention: Chief Financial Officer.
5. Optional Redemption
          The Notes will be redeemable at the option of the Company, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, on at least 30 but not more than 60 days' prior notice, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of the following amounts: (i) 100% of their principal amount; or (ii) the present value of the Remaining Scheduled Payments on the Notes being redeemed on the Redemption Date, discounted to the Redemption Date, on a semiannual basis, at the Treasury Rate plus 30 basis points (0.30%), plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes to the Redemption Date. In determining the Redemption Price and accrued interest, interest shall be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
          Selection of the Securities or portions thereof for redemption pursuant to the foregoing shall be made by the Trustee only on a pro rata basis or on as nearly a pro rata basis as is practicable (subject to the procedures of The Depository Trust Company), unless such method is otherwise prohibited. Notice of redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder whose Securities are to be redeemed at the registered address of such Holder. Securities in denominations larger than $1,000 may be redeemed in part. On and after the redemption date, interest ceases to accrue on the Securities or portions thereof called for redemption, provided that if the Company shall default in the payment of such Securities at the redemption price together with accrued interest, interest shall continue to accrue at the rate borne by the Securities.
6. Denominations, Transfer, Exchange.
          The Securities are in registered form only without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. A Holder may transfer or exchange Securities by presentation of such Securities to the Registrar or a co-Registrar with a request to register the transfer or to exchange them for an equal principal amount of Securities of other denominations. The Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Registrar need not transfer or exchange any Security selected for redemption, except the unredeemed part thereof if the Security is redeemed in part, or transfer or exchange any Securities for a period of 15 days before a selection of Securities to be redeemed.
 
7. Persons Deemed Owners.
          The registered Holder of this Security shall be treated as the owner of it for all purposes.
8. Unclaimed Money.
          If money for the payment of principal or interest remains unclaimed for two years, the Trustee or Paying Agent will pay the money back to the Company at its request. After that, Holders entitled to the money must look to the Company for payment unless an abandoned property law designates another person.
9. Amendment, Supplement, Waiver.
          Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture or the Securities may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities and any past default or compliance with any provision relating to the Securities may be waived in a particular instance with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities. Without the consent of any Holder, the Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture or the Securities to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, to provide for uncertificated Securities in addition to or in place of certificated Securities, to create a Series and establish its terms, to remove a Guarantor which, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, ceases to be liable in respect of its Guarantee, or to make any other change, provided such action does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder.
10. Successor Corporation.
          When a successor corporation assumes all the obligations of its predecessor under the Securities and the Indenture, the predecessor corporation will be released from those obligations.
11. Trustee Dealings With Company.
          American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, the Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Company or its affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Company or its affiliates, as if it were not Trustee.
     12. No Recourse Against Others.
          A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or the Indenture or
 
for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Security waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities.
13. Discharge of Indenture.
          The Indenture contains certain provisions pertaining to defeasance, which provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth herein.
14. Authentication.
          This Security shall not be valid until the Trustee signs the certificate of authentication on the other side of this Security.
15. Abbreviations.
          Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gift to Minors Act).
 
          If you the Holder want to assign this Security, fill in the form below:
          I or we assign and transfer this Security to
and irrevocably appoint
 
          The undersigned (the "Guarantors") have unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally (such guarantee by each Guarantor being referred to herein as the "Guarantee") (i) the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on the Securities, whether at maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, the due and punctual payment of interest on the overdue principal and interest, if any, on the Securities, to the extent lawful, and the due and punctual performance of all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee all in accordance with the terms set forth in Article Nine of the Indenture and (ii) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Securities or any of such other obligations, that the same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise.
          No past, present or future stockholder, officer, director, employee or incorporator, as such, of any of the Guarantors shall have any liability under the Guarantee by reason of such person's status as stockholder, officer, director, employee or incorporator. Each holder of a Security by accepting a Security waives and releases all such liability. This waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of the Guarantees.
          Each holder of a Security by accepting a Security agrees that any Guarantor named below shall have no further liability with respect to its Guarantee if such Guarantor otherwise ceases to be liable in respect of its Guarantee in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
 
          The Guarantee shall not be valid or obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication on the Securities upon which the Guarantee is noted shall have been executed by the Trustee under the Indenture by the manual signature of one of its authorized officers.
C. RICHARD DOBSON BUILDERS, INC. CHTEX OF TEXAS, INC. CONTINENTAL RESIDENTIAL, INC. D.R. HORTON, INC.  BIRMINGHAM D.R. HORTON, INC.  CHICAGO D.R. HORTON, INC.  DENVER D.R. HORTON, INC.  DIETZ-CRANE D.R. HORTON, INC.  GREENSBORO D.R. HORTON, INC.  JACKSONVILLE D.R. HORTON, INC.  LOUISVILLE D.R. HORTON, INC.  MINNESOTA D.R. HORTON, INC.  NEW JERSEY D.R. HORTON, INC.  PORTLAND D.R. HORTON, INC.  SACRAMENTO D.R. HORTON, INC.  TORREY D.R. HORTON LOS ANGELES HOLDING COMPANY, INC. D.R. HORTON MATERIALS, INC. D.R. HORTON SAN DIEGO HOLDING COMPANY, INC. DRH CAMBRIDGE HOMES, INC. DRH ENERGY, INC. DRH REGREM IV, INC. DRH REGREM V, INC. MEADOWS I, LTD. MEADOWS VIII, LTD. MEADOWS IX, INC. MEADOWS X, INC. MELMORT CO. SCHULER HOMES OF CALIFORNIA, INC. SCHULER HOMES OF OREGON, INC. SCHULER HOMES OF WASHINGTON, INC. SCHULER MORTGAGE, INC. SCHULER REALTY HAWAII, INC. SHLR OF CALIFORNIA, INC. SHLR OF COLORADO, INC. SHLR OF NEVADA, INC. SHLR OF UTAH, INC. SHLR OF WASHINGTON, INC.
 
VERTICAL CONSTRUCTION CORPORATION WESTERN PACIFIC FUNDING, INC. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING, INC. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING MANAGEMENT, INC.
 
     
HPH HOMEBUILDERS 2000 L.P. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING CO., A
CALIFORNIA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-ANTIGUA, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-AVIARA, L.P. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-BOARDWALK, LLC
 
WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-BROADWAY, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-CANYON PARK, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-CARMEL, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-CARRILLO, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-COMMUNICATIONS HILL, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-COPPER CANYON, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-CREEKSIDE, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-CULVER CITY, L.P. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-DEL VALLE, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-LOMAS VERDES, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-LOST HILLS PARK, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-MCGONIGLE CANYON, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-MOUNTAINGATE, L.P. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-NORCO ESTATES, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-OSO, L.P. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-PACIFIC PARK II, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-PARK AVENUE EAST, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-PARK AVENUE WEST, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-PLAYA VISTA, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-POINSETTIA, L.P. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-RIVER RIDGE, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-ROBINHOOD RIDGE, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-SANTA FE, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-SCRIPPS, L.P. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-SCRIPPS II, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-SEACOVE, L.P. WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-STUDIO 528, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-TERRA BAY DUETS, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-TORRANCE, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-TORREY COMMERCIAL, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-TORREY MEADOWS, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-TORREY MULTI-FAMILY, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-TORREY VILLAGE CENTER, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-VINEYARD TERRACE, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-WINDEMERE, LLC WESTERN PACIFIC HOUSING-WINDFLOWER, L.P. WPH-CAMINO RUIZ, LLC
 

 
Exhibit 5.1
D.R. Horton, Inc. 301 Commerce Street, Suite 500 Fort Worth, Texas 76102
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     As counsel for D.R. Horton, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), we are familiar with the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (as amended, the "Registration Statement") (File No. 333-117531), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") on July 21, 2004 under the Securities Act of 1933 (as amended, the "Act"), the prospectus and prospectus supplement with respect thereto, dated December 10, 2004 (together, the "Prospectus"), with respect to the proposed offering by the Company of $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.625% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "Notes") of the Company. The Notes will be issued pursuant to the Indenture, dated as of June 9, 1997, as supplemented (the "Indenture"), among the Company, the guarantors named therein (the "Guarantors") and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as trustee (the "Trustee"), as further supplemented by the Twenty-Second Supplemental Indenture, to be dated as of December 15, 2004 (the "Supplemental Indenture"), among the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee, and will be guaranteed pursuant to the terms of the Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture and the notation thereof endorsed on the Notes on a senior basis by the Guarantors (the "Guarantees"). All capitalized terms which are not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Registration Statement. The Notes and related Guarantees, the Indenture and Supplemental Indenture are referred to herein as the "Note Documents."
     For the purpose of rendering this opinion, we have made such factual and legal examination as we deemed necessary under the circumstances, and in that connection we have examined, among other things, originals or copies of the following:
 
D.R. Horton, Inc. December 14, 2004 Page 2
     (1) Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, as filed with the Commission on February 18, 2003 as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A for the quarter ended December 31, 2002;
     (2) Amendment to Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, as filed with the Commission on February 18, 2003 as Exhibit 3.1(a) to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A for the quarter ended December 31, 2002;
     (3) Amended and Restated Bylaws, as filed with the Commission on February 16, 1999 as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 1998;
     (4) Indenture and the form of Supplemental Indenture (and form of Notes and related Guarantees);
     (5) Statement of Eligibility of the Trustee on Form T-1 for the Notes, filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement; and
     (6) Such records of the corporate proceedings of the Company, such certificates and assurances from public officials, officers and representatives of the Company, and such other documents as we have considered necessary or appropriate for the purpose of rendering this opinion.
     In rendering the opinion expressed below, we have assumed:
     (a) The genuineness of all signatures on, and the authenticity of, all documents submitted to us as originals and the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as copies. With respect to agreements and instruments executed by natural persons, we have assumed the legal competency of such persons.
     (b) Each of the parties to the Note Documents other than the Company (including, without limitation, the Guarantors) is a validly existing corporation, limited partnership or limited liability company in good standing under the laws of its state of formation and has all requisite power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under each of the Note Documents to which it is a party, and the execution and delivery of such Note Documents by such party and performance of its obligations thereunder have been duly authorized by all necessary action and do not violate any law, regulation, order, judgment or decree applicable to such party.
 
D.R. Horton, Inc. December 14, 2004 Page 3
     (c) The Note Documents will be duly and validly executed and delivered by the Trustee. The Note Documents will constitute the legal, valid and binding agreements of the Trustee.
     (d) There are no agreements or understandings between or among the parties to the Note Documents that would expand, modify or otherwise affect the terms of the Note Documents or the respective rights or obligations of the parties thereunder.
      On the basis of the foregoing examination, and in reliance thereon, and subject to the qualifications and limitations set forth below, we are of the opinion that when the Notes and the Guarantees shall have been executed and authenticated as specified in the Indenture and Supplemental Indenture and offered and sold as described in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, the Notes and the Guarantees will be legally issued and binding obligations of the Company and the Guarantors, respectively.
      The opinions set forth herein are subject to the following assumptions, qualifications, limitations and exceptions:
     A. The effectiveness of the Registration Statement under the Act will not have been terminated or rescinded.
     B. We render no opinion herein as to matters involving the laws of any jurisdiction other than the State of New York and the United States of America. Our opinions set forth herein are limited to the effect of the present state of applicable laws of the State of New York and the United States of America and to the facts as they presently exist. We assume no obligation to revise or supplement our opinions should the present laws, or the interpretation thereof, be changed or to revise or supplement these opinions in respect of any circumstances or events that occur subsequent to the date hereof.
     C. Our opinions set forth herein are subject to (i) the effect of any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, arrangement or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally (including, without limitation, the effect of statutory or other laws regarding fraudulent transfers or preferential transfers), (ii) general principles of equity, regardless of whether a matter is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law, including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing and the possible unavailability of specific performance, injunctive relief or other equitable remedies, and (iii) laws affecting distributions by corporations, limited liability companies or partnerships to stockholders, members or partners.
 
D.R. Horton, Inc. December 14, 2004 Page 4
     D. We express no opinion herein as to the effect on the Guarantees of any facts or circumstances that would constitute a defense to the obligation of a surety, unless such defense may be waived under applicable law and has been waived effectively by the Guarantors.
     This opinion may be filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement. Consent is also given to the reference to this firm under the caption "Legal Matters" in the prospectus contained in the Registration Statement. In giving this consent, we do not admit we are included in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP


