FILE:DHI/DHI-8K-20040618093841.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Events.
     On June 18, 2004, D.R. Horton, Inc. (the "Company") exercised $210 million of a $250 million accordion feature contained in its existing $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility. The exercise of the accordion feature increases the amount available to the Company under this credit facility from $1.0 billion to $1.210 billion.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On June 18, 2004, the Company issued a press release related to the Company's announcement that it has increased its revolving credit facility to $1.21 billion. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference in its entirety into this Item 9.
     The information furnished in this Item 9 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
     Friday, June 18, 2004  D.R. Horton, Inc. (NYSE:DHI) announced that it has increased its unsecured revolving credit facility to $1.21 billion from $1.0 billion.
ARLINGTON, TEXAS,
     Donald R. Horton, Chairman of the Board, said, "We appreciate the continued support of our lenders as we increase our revolving credit facility. The increase will give us additional flexibility in our capital structure as we deliver our record backlog and position the Company for future growth."
     Founded in 1978, D.R. Horton, Inc. is engaged in the construction and sale of high quality homes designed principally for the entry-level and first time move-up markets. D.R. Horton currently builds and sells homes in 21 states and 51 markets, with a geographic presence in the Midwest, Mid-Atlantic, Southeast, Southwest and Western regions of the United States. The Company also provides mortgage financing and title services for homebuyers through its mortgage and title subsidiaries.
     Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although D.R. Horton believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R. Horton on the date this release was issued. D.R. Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements in this release relate to our future growth and our plans to deliver our record backlog. Factors that may cause the actual results to be materially different from the future results expressed by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: changes in general economic, real estate and business conditions; changes in interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing; governmental regulations and environmental matters; the Company's substantial leverage; competitive conditions within the industry; the availability of capital to the Company on favorable terms; the Company's ability to integrate its acquisitions and successfully effect the cost savings, operating efficiencies and revenue enhancements that are believed available and otherwise to successfully effect its other growth strategies. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R. Horton's annual report on Form 10-K and most recent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


