FILE:DHI/DHI-8K-20061121162237.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Summary of 2007 Fiscal Year Compensation of Named Executive Officers. On November 16, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of D.R. Horton, Inc. (the "Company") established and approved the base salaries, performance bonus criteria and other long-term compensation and benefits of our Chairman of the Board, Mr. Donald R. Horton, and our Vice Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Donald J. Tomnitz, for our 2007 fiscal year ending September 30, 2007 ("2007 fiscal year"). Messrs. Horton and Tomnitz are expected to be two of our "named executive officers" (as defined in Item 402(a)(3) of Regulation S-K) in our 2007 fiscal year. A summary of the compensation of Messrs. Horton and Tomnitz is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and Exhibit 10.1 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02. On November 16, 2006, on recommendation of the Chairman of the Board to the Compensation Committee and then on recommendation from the Compensation Committee to the Board, the Board established and approved the 2007 fiscal year annual salaries of: (i) Samuel R. Fuller, Senior Executive Vice President, (ii) Bill W. Wheat, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and (iii) Stacey H. Dwyer, Executive Vice President and Treasurer. Although Ms. Dwyer and Messrs. Fuller and Wheat were not "named executive officers" in our 2006 fiscal year, each of them is expected to be a "named executive officer" in our 2007 fiscal year. The Company currently does not have any other "executive officers." A summary of the compensation of Ms. Dwyer and Messrs. Fuller and Wheat is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and Exhibit 10.1 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 10.1 Summary of Compensation of Named Executive Officers
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 10.1
Chairman and Vice Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors establishes and approves the base salaries, performance bonus criteria and other long-term compensation and benefits of the Executive Officers set forth in Table I on an annual basis. For the Company's 2007 fiscal year ending September 30, 2007 (the "2007 fiscal year"), the Compensation Committee established and approved the salaries and bonus criteria as set forth below in Table I. For the 2007 fiscal year, the Compensation Committee did not change the salary or change the bonus performance criteria or related bonus percentages applicable to Mr. Horton or to Mr. Tomnitz beyond what was approved at the beginning of the prior fiscal year.
Table I
: Under the Amended and Restated 2000 Incentive Bonus Plan, Mr. Horton and Mr. Tomnitz will each receive a bonus payment based upon achieving certain performance goals with respect to quarterly consolidated pre-tax income and the other criteria that are factored into determining pre-tax income and performance of the Company. These goals are established and approved by the Compensation Committee near the beginning of each fiscal year.
Note I-A
In addition, Messrs. Horton and Tomnitz may participate in two separate deferred compensation plans. The first plan allows the executive to make voluntary income deferrals. The second plan is a promise by the Company to pay retirement benefits to the executive. Furthermore, if the executive is employed by the Company on the last day of the current fiscal year (for example September 30, 2007), then the Company will establish a liability to him equal to 10% of his annual base salary as of first day of the current fiscal year (for example October 1, 2006). This liability will accrue earnings in future years at a rate established by the administrative committee. Messrs. Horton and Tomnitz are also entitled to post-employment health and dental insurance coverage that is similar to the insurance coverage that is currently provided by the Company to each of them, their spouses and their dependent children. The post-employment benefits are effective upon Mr. Horton's and Mr. Tomnitz's respective retirement, disability, death or termination (without cause) from the Company and coverage shall be for the life of each of Mr. Horton and Mr. Tomnitz, respectively, and for the life of Mr. Horton's spouse and Mr.Tomnitz's spouse.
Other Executive Officers for the 2007 Fiscal Year
The Compensation Committee makes recommendations to the Board of Directors concerning the compensation, including salary and discretionary bonuses, of the executive officers of the Company (other than the Chairman and the CEO), taking into account the recommendations of the Chairman of the Board. The Board of Directors established and approved the 2007 fiscal year annual salaries of: (i) Samuel R. Fuller, Senior Executive Vice President, (ii) Bill W. Wheat, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and (iii) Stacey H. Dwyer, Executive Vice President and Treasurer as set forth in Table II below.
Table II
:
Note II-A
The Board of Directors may award discretionary bonuses to the executives listed in Table II above based on the performance of these executives. In addition, Ms. Dwyer and Messrs. Fuller and Wheat may participate in two separate deferred compensation plans. The first plan allows the executive to make voluntary income deferrals. The second plan is a promise by the Company to pay retirement benefits to the executive. Furthermore, if the executive is employed by the Company on the last day of the current fiscal year (for example September 30, 2007), then the Company will establish a liability to him or her equal to 10% of his or her annual base salary as of first day of the current fiscal year (for example October 1, 2006). This liability will accrue earnings in future years at a rate established by the administrative committee.


