FILE:DHI/DHI-8K-20060330102434.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Effective March 24, 2006, CH Funding, LLC, a subsidiary of D.R. Horton, Inc., entered into an Eleventh Omnibus Amendment (the "Eleventh Amendment") to that certain Master Repurchase Agreement, dated July 9, 2002, (the "CP Facility"), as amended. The parties to the Eleventh Amendment are CH Funding, a borrower, Atlantic Asset Securitization LLC, an issuer, La Fayette Asset Securitization LLC, an issuer, Falcon Asset Securitization Corporation, an issuer, Calyon New York Branch (successor in interest to Credit Lyonnais New York Branch) the administrative agent, a bank and as a managing agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, a bank and as a managing agent, U.S. Bank National Association, the collateral agent, Lloyds TSB Bank PLC, a banking corporation organized under the laws of England, a bank, and DHI Mortgage Company, Ltd., a subsidiary of D.R. Horton, Inc. and formerly known as CH Mortgage Company, Ltd., the servicer. The Eleventh Amendment was entered into for the purposes of amending certain operative documents (the "Operative Documents") and increasing the maximum capacity under the CP Facility from $500 million to $650 million, which will remain in effect through the expiration date of June 29, 2006. Except as specifically amended, all of the provisions of the Operative Documents and all of the provisions of all other documentation required to be delivered with respect thereto shall remain in full force and effect from and after the date hereof. The CP Facility is secured by certain mortgage loans held for sale and is not guaranteed by D.R. Horton, Inc. or any of the guarantors of its homebuilding debt. The mortgage loans assigned to secure the CP Facility are used as collateral for asset backed commercial paper issued by multi-seller conduits in the commercial paper market. The Eleventh Amendment is filed herewith as an Exhibit 10.1. Effective March 24, 2006, DHI Mortgage Company, Ltd. ("DHI Mortgage"), a subsidiary of D.R. Horton, Inc., entered into a Ninth Amendmen t (the "Ninth Amendment") to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the "Credit Facility") with U.S. Bank National Association and the other lenders listed thereon. The Ninth Amendment was entered into for the purpose of increasing the capacity available under the Credit Facility from $450 million to $600 million (which includes an initial capacity of $450 million plus an additional capacity of $150 million under the accordian feature). The Credit Facility's term runs through April 7, 2006. The Credit Facility is secured by certain mortgage loans held for sale and is not guaranteed by D.R. Horton, Inc. or any of the guarantors of its homebuilding debt. DHI Mortgage pays interest on the outstanding balance under the Credit Facility at a per annum rate equal to the average daily LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin. The Ninth Amendment is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.2.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
All the information set forth above under Item 1.01 "Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits: 10.1 Eleventh Omnibus Amendment to the Master Repurchase Agreement between CH Funding, LLC and certain other parties dated March 24, 2006. 10.2 Ninth Amendment to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement between DHI Mortgage Company, Ltd. and certain other parties dated March 24, 2006.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

EXHIBIT 10.1
THIS ELEVENTH OMNIBUS AMENDMENT (this ""), dated as of March 24, 2006, is entered into by and among CH FUNDING, LLC (the ""), ATLANTIC ASSET SECURITIZATION LLC, as an Issuer (""), LA FAYETTE ASSET SECURITIZATION LLC, as an Issuer (""), FALCON ASSET SECURITIZATION CORPORATION, as an Issuer (""), CALYON NEW YORK BRANCH, as the Administrative Agent (the ""), as a Bank and as a Managing Agent (""), JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (""), as a Bank and as a Managing Agent, U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as the Collateral Agent (""), LLOYDS TSB BANK PLC, a banking corporation organized under the laws of England (hereinafter, together with its successors and assigns, ""), as a Bank, and DHI MORTGAGE COMPANY, LTD., as the Servicer (the "") and as the Seller (the ""). Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein are used as defined in the related Operative Documents (as defined below).
Amendment
Borrower
Atlantic
La Fayette
Falcon
Administrative Agent
Calyon
JPMC
U.S. Bank
Lloyds
Servicer
Seller
WHEREAS, the Servicer, as the Seller, and the Borrower, as the Purchaser, entered into that certain Master Repurchase Agreement and Addendum to the Master Repurchase Agreement incorporated therein, dated as of July 9, 2002, as amended by the Omnibus Amendment, dated as of August 26, 2002, by and among the Borrower, Atlantic, the Administrative Agent, and the Servicer (the "") and the Second Omnibus Amendment, dated as of November 25, 2002, by and among the Borrower, Atlantic, the Administrative Agent and the Servicer (the "") (as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or modified from time to time, the "");
First Omnibus Amendment
Second Omnibus Amendment
Repurchase Agreement
WHEREAS, the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and U.S. Bank entered into that certain Collateral Agency Agreement, dated as of July 9, 2002, as amended by the First Omnibus Amendment and the Second Omnibus Amendment (the "");
Collateral Agency Agreement
WHEREAS, the Borrower, as Debtor, the Administrative Agent, U.S. Bank and the Servicer entered into that certain Security Agreement, dated as of July 9, 2002, as amended by the Third Omnibus Amendment, dated as of April 18, 2003, by and among the Borrower, Atlantic, the Administrative Agent and the Servicer (the "") (as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or modified from time to time, the "");
Third Omnibus Amendment
Security Agreement
WHEREAS, the Borrower, Atlantic, Falcon, JPMC, Lloyds, the Administrative Agent, and the Servicer, have entered into that certain Amended and Restated Loan Agreement, dated as of July 25, 2003, which incorporates the Loan Agreement amendments contained in the First Omnibus Amendment, the Second Omnibus Amendment and the Third Omnibus Amendment and completely replaces and supplants such Omnibus Amendments (as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or modified from time to time, the "" and, collectively with the Repurchase Agreement, the Collateral Agency Agreement and the Security Agreement, the ");
Restated Loan Agreement
Operative Documents
WHEREAS, the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, U.S. Bank and the Servicer have entered into that certain Fourth Omnibus Amendment, dated as of July 25, 2003, which completely replaced and supplanted the preceding Omnibus Amendments;
WHEREAS, the Borrower, Calyon, U.S. Bank, JPMC, Lloyds, Danske Bank A/S, Cayman Islands Branch (together with its successors and assigns, ""), and the Servicer entered into the Fifth Omnibus Amendment, dated as of December 22, 2003 (the ""), relating to certain amendments to the Operative Documents;
Danske
Fifth Omnibus Amendment
WHEREAS, the Borrower, Calyon, JPMC, Lloyds, Danske, and the Servicer entered into the Sixth Omnibus Agreement, dated as of July 7, 2004 (the ""), relating to certain amendments to the Operative Documents;
Sixth Omnibus Amendment
WHEREAS, the Borrower, Calyon, JPMC, Lloyds, Danske, and the Servicer entered into the Seventh Omnibus Agreement, dated as of June 29, 2005 (the ""), relating to certain amendments to the Operative Documents;
Seventh Omnibus Amendment
WHEREAS, the Borrower, Calyon, JPMC, Lloyds, U.S. Bank, Atlantic, La Fayette, Falcon and the Servicer entered into the Eighth Omnibus Agreement, dated as of September 26, 2005 (the ""), relating to certain amendments to the Operative Documents;
Eighth Omnibus Amendment
WHEREAS, the Borrower, Calyon, JPMC, Lloyds, U.S. Bank, Atlantic, La Fayette, Falcon and the Servicer entered into the Ninth Omnibus Agreement, dated as of September 29, 2005 (the ""), relating to certain amendments to the Operative Documents;
Ninth Omnibus Amendment
WHEREAS, the Borrower, Calyon, JPMC, Lloyds, U.S. Bank, Atlantic, La Fayette, Falcon and the Servicer entered into the Tenth Omnibus Agreement, dated as of February 28, 2006 (the ""), relating to certain amendments to the Operative Documents;
Tenth Omnibus Amendment
WHEREAS, via certain assignment agreements, Danske assigned 100% of its interest to Calyon and Calyon assigned a portion of such interest to Lloyds; and
WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to further amend the Operative Documents as hereinafter set forth.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
Section 1. Amendment to Repurchase Agreement.
a. Article I is hereby amended by deleting both occurrences of the words "listed on Schedule IV" in clause (l) of the proviso to the definition of "Collateral Value" therein.
b. Article I is hereby amended by deleting the words "listed on Schedule IV to the Collateral Agency Agreement" in the definition of "Extended Time Period" therein.
a. Exhibit D-1 is hereby amended by deleting both occurrences of the words "listed on Schedule IV" in clause (l) of the proviso to the definition of "Collateral Value" therein.
b. Exhibit D-1 is hereby amended by deleting the words "listed on Schedule IV to the Collateral Agency Agreement" in the definition of "Extended Time Period" therein.
c. Exhibit D-1 is hereby amended by deleting the definition of "Maximum Facility Amount" therein and replacing it with the following definition:
"" means $650,000,000, as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.1(c) of the Loan Agreement.
Maximum Facility Amount
d. Section 3.4(b)(i) is hereby amended by deleting the proviso at the end thereof in its entirety.
e. Schedule III, Approved Investors, is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the new Schedule III, attached hereto as hereto.
Annex A
f. Schedule IV, Approved Investors with Extended Time Periods, is hereby deleted in its entirety.
g. The form of Exhibit D-6(a), "Bailee and Security Agreement Letter for Approved Investors," is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the new Exhibit D-6(a), attached as hereto.
Annex B
h. The form of Exhibit D-6(c), "Bailee and Security Agreement Letter for Approved Investors Listed on Schedule IV," is hereby deleted in its entirety.
a. Article I is hereby amended by deleting both occurrences of the words "listed on Schedule IV" in clause (l) of the proviso to the definition of "Collateral Value" therein.
b. Article I is hereby amended by deleting the words "listed on Schedule IV to the Collateral Agency Agreement" in the definition of "Extended Time Period" therein.
c. The definition of "Issuer Facility Amount" is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following definition:
"" means (a) with respect to Atlantic and La Fayette, on an aggregate basis, $550,000,000, and (b) with respect to Falcon, on an aggregate basis, $100,000,000. Any reduction (or termination) of the Maximum Facility Amount pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall reduce ratably (or terminate) the Issuer Facility Amount of each Issuer.
Issuer Facility Amount
d. The definition of "Maximum Facility Amount" is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following definition:
"" means $650,000,000, as such amount may be reduced pursuant to of this Agreement."
Maximum Facility Amount
Section 2.1(c)
e. Schedule I is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with Schedule I, Bank Commitments and Percentages, attached as hereto.
Annex C
f. Schedule II, Approved Investors, is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the new Schedule II, attached hereto as hereto.
Annex A
g. The form of Exhibit D-6(a), "Bailee and Security Agreement Letter for Approved Investors," is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the new Exhibit D-6(a) attached as hereto.
Annex B
h. The form of Exhibit D-6(c), "Bailee and Security Agreement Letter for Approved Investors Listed on Schedule IV," is hereby deleted in its entirety.
Except as specifically amended hereby, all of the provisions of the Operative Documents and all of the provisions of all other documentation required to be delivered with respect thereto shall remain in full force and effect from and after the date hereof.
a. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which when taken together shall not constitute a novation of any Operative Document, but shall constitute an amendment thereof. The parties hereto agree to be bound by the terms and conditions of each Operative Document, as amended by this Amendment, as though such terms and conditions were set forth herein
b. The descriptive headings of the various sections of this Amendment are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not be deemed to affect the meaning or construction of any of the provisions hereof.
c. This Amendment may not be amended or otherwise modified except as provided in each respective Operative Agreement.
d. This Amendment and the rights and obligations of the parties under this amendment shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the state of New York (without giving effect to the conflict of laws principles thereof, other than Sections 5-1401 and 5-1402 of the New York General Obligations Law, which shall apply hereto).
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have agreed to and caused this Amendment to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.
CH FUNDING, LLC
BORROWER:
By: Name: Title: CALYON NEW YORK BRANCH
/s/Mark C. Winter
Mark C. Winter
VP
ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT,
BANK, AND MANAGING
AGENT:
By: Name: Title: By: Name: Title:
/s/Anthony Brown
Anthony Brown
Vice President
/s/ Kostantina Kourmpetis
Kostantina Kourmpetis
Managing Director
: ATLANTIC ASSET SECURITIZATION LLC
ISSUER
By: Calyon New York Branch, as Attorney in Fact
By: Name: Title:
/s/Anthony Brown
Anthony Brown
Vice President
By: Name: Title: {Signatures continue on the following page.}
/s/ Kostantina Kourmpetis
Kostantina Kourmpetis
Managing Director
: LA FAYETTE ASSET SECURITIZATION LLC
ISSUER
By: Calyon New York Branch, as Attorney in Fact
By: Name: Title:
/s/ Anthony Brown
Anthony Brown
Vice President
By: Name: Title:
/s/ Kostantina Kourmpetis
Kostantina Kourmpetis
Managing Director
BANK AND
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.
MANAGING AGENT:
By: Name: Title: FALCON ASSET SECURITIZATION CORPORATION
/s/Jill T. Lane
Jill T. Lane
Vice President
ISSUER:
By: Name: Title: DHI MORTGAGE COMPANY, LTD.
/s/Jill T. Lane
Jill T. Lane
Vice President
SELLER AND SERVICER:
By: DHI Mortgage Company GP, Inc., formerly known as CH Mortgage Company GP, Inc., its general
partner
By: Name: Title:
/s/Mark C. Winter
Mark C. Winter
EVP, CFO
LLOYDS TSB BANK PLC
BANK:
By: . Name: Title: By: Name: Title:
/s/Daniela Chun
Daniela Chun
Assistant Vice President
Structured Finance, USA
C-031
/s/Ian Dimmock
Ian Dimmock
Vice President
Structured Finance
D080
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
COLLATERAL AGENT:
By: Name: Title:
/s/Edwin D. Jenkins
Edwin D. Jenkins
SeniorVicePresident
ANNEX B
EXHIBIT D-6(a)
DATE:
[Investor's Name] [Investor's Address]
Attached please find those Mortgage Loans listed separately on the attached schedule, which are being delivered to you for purchase.
The Mortgage Loans comprise a portion of the Collateral under (and as the term "" and capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein are defined in) that certain Loan Agreement entered into as of July 9, 2002 (as it has been or may hereafter be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time), among CH FUNDING, LLC (the ""), the Issuer and Banks parties thereto, CALYON NEW YORK BRANCH, in its capacity as administrative agent for the "Lenders" (as defined therein) (in such capacity, the ""), and DHI MORTGAGE COMPANY, LTD. (""), in its capacity as servicer thereunder, pursuant to that certain Security Agreement among the Company, the Administrative Agent, and U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, in its capacity as the collateral agent (the "") dated as of July 9, 2002 (as it has been or may hereafter be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""). DHI Mortgage is reacquiring the Mortgage Loans from CH Funding and is offering such Mortgage Loans to you. Each of the Mortgage Loans is subject to a security interest in favor of the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Secured Parties, which security interest shall be automatically released upon your remittance of the full amount of the purchase price of such Mortgage Loan (as set forth on the schedule attached hereto) by wire transfer to the following account:
Collateral
Company
Administrative Agent
DHI Mortgage
Collateral Agent
Security Agreement
Pending your purchase of each Mortgage Loan and until payment therefor is received, the aforesaid security interest therein will remain in full force and effect, and you shall hold possession of such Collateral and the documentation evidencing same as custodian, agent and bailee for and on behalf of the Secured Parties. In the event any Mortgage Loan is unacceptable for purchase, return the rejected item directly to the Collateral Agent at the address set forth below. The Mortgage Loan must be so returned or sales proceeds remitted in full no later than ninety (90) calendar days from the date hereof (or, with the consent of DHI Mortgage, such longer period, not to exceed one hundred and nineteen (119) calendar days, as approved). In no event shall any Mortgage Loan be returned to or sales proceeds remitted to DHI Mortgage or CH Funding; Mortgage Loans and/or sale proceeds must be returned to the Collateral Agent and/or to the settlement account above. If you are unable to comply with the above instructions, please so advise the undersigned immediately.
: BY ACCEPTING THE MORTGAGE LOANS DELIVERED TO YOU WITH THIS LETTER, YOU CONSENT TO BE THE CUSTODIAN, AGENT AND BAILEE FOR THE SECURED PARTIES ON THE TERMS DESCRIBED IN THIS LETTER. THE UNDERSIGNED, AS COLLATERAL AGENT, REQUESTS THAT YOU ACKNOWLEDGE RECEIPT OF THE ENCLOSED MORTGAGE LOANS AND THIS LETTER BY SIGNING AND RETURNING THE ENCLOSED COPY OF THIS LETTER TO THE UNDERSIGNED; HOWEVER, YOUR FAILURE TO DO SO DOES NOT NULLIFY SUCH CONSENT.
NOTE
Sincerely,
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as the Collateral Agent
Address: 225 South Sixth Street Mortgage Banking Services EP-MN-M5M13 Minneapolis, MN55402-4302
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF RECEIPT:
[Investor]
By: Name: Title: Datte:
ANNEX C

EXHIBIT 10.2
This (this "Amendment"), made and entered into as of March 24, 2006, is by and between DHI Mortgage Company, Ltd., a Texas limited partnership (the "Borrower"), and U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking association (the "Agent" and a "Lender") and the other Lenders party hereto (collectively, the "Lenders").
NINTH AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT
1. The Lenders and the Borrower entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of April 9, 2004 as amended by a First Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of September 22, 2004, by a Second Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of April 8, 2005, by a Third Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of June 23, 2005, by a Fourth Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of September 26, 2005, by a Fifth Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of September 28, 2005, by a Sixth Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of October 28, 2005, by a Seventh Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of November 30, 2005 and by an Eighth Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of January 30, 2006 (as amended, the "Credit Agreement"); and
2. The Borrower desires to increase the Aggregate Commitment Amount under the Credit Agreement under the provisions of Section 10.11(d) and to make other changes to certain provisions of the Credit Agreement and the Agent and the Lenders have agreed to make such amendments, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Amendment.
for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby covenant and agree to be bound as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Credit Agreement, unless the context shall otherwise require.
Section 1.
Capitalized Terms
. The Credit Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
Section 2.
Amendments
The definitions of "Aggregate Commitment Amounts" and "Approval Amount" are amended in their entireties to read as follows:
2.1
"": means the total of the Commitment Amounts of the Lenders, which is $450,000,000, subject to increase in accordance with Section 10.11(d), but not to exceed $600,000,000.
Aggregate Commitment Amounts
"": means with respect to U.S. Bank, $165,000,000.
Approval Amount
Section 10.11(d) of the Credit Agreement is amended by deleting the phrase "$450,000,000 ($600,000,000 on September 26 and 27, 2005, and $675,000,000 from September 28, 2005 through October 28, 2005)" and by inserting the following in its place "$600,000,000".
2.2
Schedule 5 to the Credit Agreement is deleted and Schedule 5 attached hereto is inserted in its place as Schedule 5 to the Credit Agreement.
2.3
. The amendments contained in this Amendment shall become effective on March 24, 2006 once executed by the Borrower and the Lenders and once the Agent has received the following:
Section 3.
Effectiveness of Amendments
(a) This Amendment and any other documents reasonably required hereunder, including, without limitation, Notes in favor of the Agent and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (together with this Amendment, the "Amendment Documents");
(b) A copy of the resolutions of the Board of Directors of the General Partner of the Borrower authorizing the execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment and the Notes certified as true and accurate by its Secretary or Assistant Secretary, along with a certification by such Secretary or Assistant Secretary; and
(c) The Borrower shall have satisfied such other conditions as specified by the Agent, including payment of all unpaid legal fees and expenses incurred by the Agent through the date of this Amendment in connection with the Credit Agreement and the Amendment Documents.
.
Section 4.
Representations, Warranties, Authority, No Adverse Claim
The Borrower hereby represents that on and as of the date hereof and after giving effect to this Amendment (a) all of the representations and warranties contained in the Credit Agreement are true, correct and complete in all respects as of the date hereof as though made on and as of such date, except for changes permitted by the terms of the Credit Agreement, and (b) there will exist no Default or Event of Default under the Credit Agreement as amended by this Amendment on such date which has not been waived by the Lenders.
4.1
Reassertion of Representations and Warranties, No Default
.
The Borrower represents and warrants that the Borrower has the power and legal right and authority to enter into this Amendment and has duly authorized as appropriate the execution and delivery of this Amendment and other agreements and documents executed and delivered by the Borrower in connection herewith by proper partnership action, and none of the Amendment Documents nor the agreements contained herein or therein contravenes or constitutes a default under any agreement, instrument or indenture to which the Borrower is a party or a signatory or a provision of the Borrower's partnership agreement or any other agreement or requirement of law, or result in the imposition of any Lien on any of its property under any agreement binding on or applicable to the Borrower or any of its property except, if any, in favor of the Lenders. The Borrower represents and warrants that no consent, approval or authorization of or registration or declaration with any Person, including but not limited to any governmental authority, is required in connection with the execution and delivery by the Borrower of the Amendment Documents or other agreements and documents executed and delivered by the Borrower in connection therewith or the performance of obligations of the Borrower therein described, except for those which the Borrower has obtained or provided and as to which the Borrower has delivered certified copies of documents evidencing each such action to the Lenders.
4.2
Authority, No Conflict, No Consent Required
.
The Borrower warrants, acknowledges and agrees that no events have taken place and no circumstances exist at the date hereof which would give the Borrower a basis to assert a defense, offset or counterclaim to any claim of the Lenders with respect to the Obligations.
4.3
No Adverse Claim
.
. The Agent on behalf of the Lenders and the Borrower each acknowledge and affirm that the Credit Agreement, as hereby amended, is hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects and all terms, conditions and provisions of the Credit Agreement, except as amended by this Amendment, shall remain unmodified and in full force and effect. All references in any document or instrument to the Credit Agreement are hereby amended and shall refer to the Credit Agreement as amended by this Amendment. The Borrower confirms to the Lenders that the Obligations are and continue to be secured by the security interest granted by the Borrower in favor of the Lenders under the Security Agreement, and all of the terms, conditions, provisions, agreements, requirements, promises, obligations, duties, covenants and representations of the Borrower under such documents and any and all other documents and agreements entered into with respect to the obligations under the Credit Agreement are incorporated herein by reference and are hereby ratified and affirmed in all respects by the Borrower.
Section 5.
Affirmation of Credit Agreement, Further References, Affirmation of Security Interest
. This Amendment, from and after the date hereof, embodies the entire agreement and understanding between the parties hereto and supersedes and has merged into this Amendment all prior oral and written agreements on the same subjects by and between the parties hereto with the effect that this Amendment, shall control with respect to the specific subjects hereof and thereof.
Section 6.
Merger and Integration, Superseding Effect
Whenever possible, each provision of this Amendment and the other Amendment Documents and any other statement, instrument or transaction contemplated hereby or thereby or relating hereto or thereto shall be interpreted in such manner as to be effective, valid and enforceable under the applicable law of any jurisdiction, but, if any provision of this Amendment, the other Amendment Documents or any other statement, instrument or transaction contemplated hereby or thereby or relating hereto or thereto shall be held to be prohibited, invalid or unenforceable under the applicable law, such provision shall be ineffective in such jurisdiction only to the extent of such prohibition, invalidity or unenforceability, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remainder of such provision or the remaining provisions of this Amendment, the other Amendment Documents or any other statement, instrument or transaction contemplated hereby or thereby or relating hereto or thereto in such jurisdiction, or affecting the effectiveness, validity or enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Section 7.
Severability
.
The Amendment Documents shall be binding upon the Borrower and the Lenders and their respective successors and assigns, and shall inure to the benefit of the Borrower and the Lenders and the successors and assigns of the Lenders.
Section 8.
Successors
.
. The Borrower agrees to pay or reimburse the Agent, upon execution of this Amendment, for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses paid or incurred by the Agent, including filing and recording costs and fees, charges and disbursements of outside counsel to the Agent (determined on the basis of such counsel's generally applicable rates, which may be higher than the rates such counsel charges the Agent in certain matters) and/or the allocated costs of in-house counsel incurred from time to time, in connection with the Credit Agreement, including in connection with the negotiation, preparation, execution, collection and enforcement of the Amendment Documents and all other documents negotiated, prepared and executed in connection with the Amendment Documents, and in enforcing the obligations of the Borrower under the Amendment Documents, and to pay and save the Agent harmless from all liability for, any stamp or other taxes which may be payable with respect to the execution or delivery of the Amendment Documents, which obligations of the Borrower shall survive any termination of the Credit Agreement.
Section 9.
Legal Expenses
. The headings of various sections of this Amendment have been inserted for reference only and shall not be deemed to be a part of this Amendment.
Section 10.
Headings
. The Amendment Documents may be executed in several counterparts as deemed necessary or convenient, each of which, when so executed, shall be deemed an original, provided that all such counterparts shall be regarded as one and the same document, and either party to the Amendment Documents may execute any such agreement by executing a counterpart of such agreement.
Section 11.
Counterparts
Section 12.
Governing Law
. THE AMENDMENT DOCUMENTS SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THEREOF, BUT GIVING EFFECT TO FEDERAL LAWS APPLICABLE TO NATIONAL BANKS, THEIR HOLDING COMPANIES AND THEIR AFFILIATES.
the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be executed as of the date and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
BORROWER: DHI MORTGAGE COMPANY, LTD. By: DHI Mortgage Company GP, Inc. Its: General Partner
By:
/s/Mark C. Winter
Title:
Executive Vice President
Chief Financial Officer
STATE OF TEXAS
COUNTY OF TRAVIS
On this the 23 day of March, 2006, personally appeared Mark C. Winter, as Executive Vice President of DHI Mortgage Company, GP, Inc., a Delaware corporation, as general partner of DHI
RD
Mortgage Company , Ltd., a Texas limited partnership (the "Company"), and before me executed this Ninth Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, on behalf of the Company.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and official seal.
Signature of Notary Public, State of
/s/Melody A. Hansen
Texas
(Print, Type or Stamp Commissioned Name of Notary Public) Personally known; OR Produced Identification Type of ID produced
     
(NOTARIAL SEAL)
AGENT & LENDER: U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
By: Edwin D. Jenkins Senior Vice President
/s/Edwin D. Jenkins
(USB Signature Page Ninth Amendment)
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK
By: Cynthia E. Crites Senior Vice President
/s/Cynthia E. Crites
COMERICA BANK
By: Robert W. Marr Vice President
/s/Robert W. Marr
NATIONAL CITY BANK OF KENTUCKY
By: Name: Title: COLONIAL BANK, N.A.
/s/Scott Goodwin
Scott Goodwin
Vice President
By:
/s/Amy J. Nunneley
Amy J. Nunneley Senior Vice President
STATE OF COUNTY OF On this the day of , 2006, personally appeared y, as of Colonial Bank, N.A., an Alabama corporation (the
Alabama
Jefferson
22
nd
March
Amy J Nunnele
Senior Vice President
"Bank"), and before me executed this Eighth Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, on behalf of the Bank. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and official seal.
/s/Nicole L. LaRue
Signature of Notary Public, State of
Alabama
Nicole L. LaRue
(Print, Type or Stamp Commissioned Name of Notary Public)
Personally known _; OR Produced Identification
X
     
Type of ID produced
(NOTARIAL SEAL)
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
By: Elizabeth Kurilecz Senior Vice President
/s/Elizabeth Kurilecz
BNP PARIBAS
By: Its: Director
/s/Shayn March
Shayn March
By: Its: Director
/s/Angela Arnold
Angela B. Arnold
WASHINGTON MUTUAL BANK, FA
By: Brad R. Johnson Vice President
/s/Brad R. Johnson
SCHEDULE 5


