FILE:DHI/DHI-8K-20060201150659.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Effective January 30, 2006, DHI Mortgage Company, Ltd. (" DHI Mortgage "), a subsidiary of D.R. Horton, Inc., entered into an eighth amendment (the " Eighth Amendment ") to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the " Credit Facility ") with U.S. Bank National Association and the other lenders listed thereon. The Eighth Amendment was entered into for the purpose of increasing the Credit Facility from $300 million to $450 million through maturity of the Credit Facility on April 7, 2006. The Credit Facility is secured by certain mortgage loans held for sale and is not guaranteed by D.R. Horton, Inc. or any of the guarantors of the Senior and Senior Subordinated Notes of D.R. Horton, Inc. DHI Mortgage pays interest on the outstanding balance under the Credit Facility at a per annum rate equal to the average daily LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin. The Eighth Amendment is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
All the information set forth above under Item 1.01 "Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On January 26, 2006, D.R. Horton, Inc. (the "Company") held its 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The Annual Meeting was held to (i) elect seven directors, (ii) vote on a proposal to approve the D.R. Horton, Inc. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, (iii) to approve an amendment to the Companys Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, increasing the number of authorized shares of common stock to One Billion, (iv) to vote on a shareholder proposal concerning an energy efficiency assessment, and (v) to conduct other business properly brought before the meeting. At the 2006 Annual Meeting the voting results were as follows (i) Donald R. Horton, Bradley S. Anderson, Michael R. Buchanan, Richard I. Galland, Michael W. Hewatt, Donald J. Tomnitz, and Bill W. Wheat were elected to the Companys Board of Directors, (ii) the proposal to approve the D.R. Horton, Inc. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan was approved, (iii) the proposal to approve an amendment to the Companys Certificate of Incorporation, a s amended, increasing the number of authorized shares of common stock to One Billion was approved, and (iv) the shareholder proposal concerning an energy efficiency assessment was not approved. No other business was brought before the meeting.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits: 10.1 Eighth Amendment to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated January 30, 2006, by and among DHI Mortgage Company, Ltd., U.S. Bank National Association and the Lenders thereto.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

This (this "Amendment"), made and entered into as of January 30, 2006, is by and between DHI Mortgage Company, Ltd., a Texas limited partnership (the "Borrower"), and U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking association (the "Agent" and a "Lender") and the other Lenders party hereto (collectively, the "Lenders").
EIGHTH AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT
1. The Lenders and the Borrower entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of April 9, 2004 as amended by a First Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of September 22, 2004, by a Second Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of April 8, 2005, by a Third Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of June 23, 2005, by a Fourth Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of September 26, 2005, by a Fifth Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of September 28, 2005, Sixth Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of October 28, 2005 and a Seventh Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of November 30, 2005 (as amended, the "Credit Agreement"); and
2. The Borrower desires to increase the Aggregate Commitment Amount under the Credit Agreement under the provisions of Section 10.11(d) and to make other changes to certain provisions of the Credit Agreement and the Agent and the Lenders have agreed to make such amendments, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Amendment.
for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby covenant and agree to be bound as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Credit Agreement, unless the context shall otherwise require.
Section 1.
Capitalized Terms
. The Credit Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
Section 2.
Amendments
The definition of "Aggregate Commitment Amounts" is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
2.1
"": means the total of the Commitment Amounts of the Lenders, which is $300,000,000, subject to increase in accordance with Section 10.11(d), but not to exceed $450,000,000.
Aggregate Commitment Amounts
Schedule 5 to the Credit Agreement is deleted and Schedule 5 attached hereto is inserted in its place as Schedule 5 to the Credit Agreement.
2.2
. The amendments contained in this Amendment shall become effective on January 30, 2006 once executed by the Borrower and the Lenders and once the Agent has received the following:
Section 3.
Effectiveness of Amendments
(a) This Amendment and any other documents reasonably required hereunder (together with this Amendment, the "Amendment Documents");
(b) A copy of the resolutions of the Board of Directors of the General Partner of the Borrower authorizing the execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment and the Notes certified as true and accurate by its Secretary or Assistant Secretary, along with a certification by such Secretary or Assistant Secretary; and
(c) The Borrower shall have satisfied such other conditions as specified by the Agent, including payment of all unpaid legal fees and expenses incurred by the Agent through the date of this Amendment in connection with the Credit Agreement and the Amendment Documents.
.
Section 4.
Representations, Warranties, Authority, No Adverse Claim
The Borrower hereby represents that on and as of the date hereof and after giving effect to this Amendment (a) all of the representations and warranties contained in the Credit Agreement are true, correct and complete in all respects as of the date hereof as though made on and as of such date, except for changes permitted by the terms of the Credit Agreement, and (b) there will exist no Default or Event of Default under the Credit Agreement as amended by this Amendment on such date which has not been waived by the Lenders.
4.1
Reassertion of Representations and Warranties, No Default
.
The Borrower represents and warrants that the Borrower has the power and legal right and authority to enter into this Amendment and has duly authorized as appropriate the execution and delivery of this Amendment and other agreements and documents executed and delivered by the Borrower in connection herewith by proper partnership action, and none of the Amendment Documents nor the agreements contained herein or therein contravenes or constitutes a default under any agreement, instrument or indenture to which the Borrower is a party or a signatory or a provision of the Borrower's partnership agreement or any other agreement or requirement of law, or result in the imposition of any Lien on any of its property under any agreement binding on or applicable to the Borrower or any of its property except, if any, in favor of the Lenders. The Borrower represents and warrants that no consent, approval or authorization of or registration or declaration with any Person, including but not limited to any governmental authority, is required in connection with the execution and delivery by the Borrower of the Amendment Documents or other agreements and documents executed and delivered by the Borrower in connection therewith or the performance of obligations of the Borrower therein described, except for those which the Borrower has obtained or provided and as to which the Borrower has delivered certified copies of documents evidencing each such action to the Lenders.
4.2
Authority, No Conflict, No Consent Required
.
The Borrower warrants, acknowledges and agrees that no events have taken place and no circumstances exist at the date hereof which would give the Borrower a basis to assert a defense, offset or counterclaim to any claim of the Lenders with respect to the Obligations.
4.3
No Adverse Claim
.
. The Agent on behalf of the Lenders and the Borrower each acknowledge and affirm that the Credit Agreement, as hereby amended, is hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects and all terms, conditions and provisions of the Credit Agreement, except as amended by this Amendment, shall remain unmodified and in full force and effect. All references in any document or instrument to the Credit Agreement are hereby amended and shall refer to the Credit Agreement as amended by this Amendment. The Borrower confirms to the Lenders that the Obligations are and continue to be secured by the security interest granted by the Borrower in favor of the Lenders under the Security Agreement, and all of the terms, conditions, provisions, agreements, requirements, promises, obligations, duties, covenants and representations of the Borrower under such documents and any and all other documents and agreements entered into with respect to the obligations under the Credit Agreement are incorporated herein by reference and are hereby ratified and affirmed in all respects by the Borrower.
Section 5.
Affirmation of Credit Agreement, Further References, Affirmation of Security Interest
. This Amendment, from and after the date hereof, embodies the entire agreement and understanding between the parties hereto and supersedes and has merged into this Amendment all prior oral and written agreements on the same subjects by and between the parties hereto with the effect that this Amendment, shall control with respect to the specific subjects hereof and thereof.
Section 6.
Merger and Integration, Superseding Effect
Whenever possible, each provision of this Amendment and the other Amendment Documents and any other statement, instrument or transaction contemplated hereby or thereby or relating hereto or thereto shall be interpreted in such manner as to be effective, valid and enforceable under the applicable law of any jurisdiction, but, if any provision of this Amendment, the other Amendment Documents or any other statement, instrument or transaction contemplated hereby or thereby or relating hereto or thereto shall be held to be prohibited, invalid or unenforceable under the applicable law, such provision shall be ineffective in such jurisdiction only to the extent of such prohibition, invalidity or unenforceability, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remainder of such provision or the remaining provisions of this Amendment, the other Amendment Documents or any other statement, instrument or transaction contemplated hereby or thereby or relating hereto or thereto in such jurisdiction, or affecting the effectiveness, validity or enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Section 7.
Severability
.
The Amendment Documents shall be binding upon the Borrower and the Lenders and their respective successors and assigns, and shall inure to the benefit of the Borrower and the Lenders and the successors and assigns of the Lenders.
Section 8.
Successors
.
. The Borrower agrees to pay or reimburse the Agent, upon execution of this Amendment, for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses paid or incurred by the Agent, including filing and recording costs and fees, charges and disbursements of outside counsel to the Agent (determined on the basis of such counsel's generally applicable rates, which may be higher than the rates such counsel charges the Agent in certain matters) and/or the allocated costs of in-house counsel incurred from time to time, in connection with the Credit Agreement, including in connection with the negotiation, preparation, execution, collection and enforcement of the Amendment Documents and all other documents negotiated, prepared and executed in connection with the Amendment Documents, and in enforcing the obligations of the Borrower under the Amendment Documents, and to pay and save the Agent harmless from all liability for, any stamp or other taxes which may be payable with respect to the execution or delivery of the Amendment Documents, which obligations of the Borrower shall survive any termination of the Credit Agreement.
Section 9.
Legal Expenses
. The headings of various sections of this Amendment have been inserted for reference only and shall not be deemed to be a part of this Amendment.
Section 10.
Headings
. The Amendment Documents may be executed in several counterparts as deemed necessary or convenient, each of which, when so executed, shall be deemed an original, provided that all such counterparts shall be regarded as one and the same document, and either party to the Amendment Documents may execute any such agreement by executing a counterpart of such agreement.
Section 11.
Counterparts
Section 12.
Governing Law
. THE AMENDMENT DOCUMENTS SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THEREOF, BUT GIVING EFFECT TO FEDERAL LAWS APPLICABLE TO NATIONAL BANKS, THEIR HOLDING COMPANIES AND THEIR AFFILIATES.
the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be executed as of the date and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
BORROWER:
DHI MORTGAGE COMPANY, LTD. By: DHI Mortgage Company GP, Inc. Its: General Partner By Title
s/ Mark C. Winter
/
:
Mark C. Winter
:
EVP/CFO
STATE OF
TEXAS
COUNTY OF
TRAVIS
On this the 25th day of January, 2006, personally appeared Mark C. Winter, as CFO/EVP of DHI Mortgage Company, GP, Inc., a Delaware corporation, as general partner of DHI Mortgage Company , Ltd., a Texas limited partnership (the "Company"), and before me executed this Eighth Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, on behalf of the Company.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and official seal.
Signature of Notary Public, State of
/sMelody A. Hansen
/
(Print, Type or Stamp Commissioned Name of Notary Public) Personally known; OR Produced Identification Type of ID produced
     
     
     
     
(NOTARIAL SEAL)
AGENT & LENDER:
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
By: Edwin D. Jenkins Senior Vice President
/s/ Edwin D.Jenkins
(USB Signature Page Eighth Amendment)
COMERICA BANK
By: Robert W. Marr Vice President
/s/ Robert W. Marr
NATIONAL CITY BANK OF KENTUCKY
By: Jerry W. Johnston Executive Vice President
/s/ Jerry W. Johnston
COLONIAL BANK, N.A.
By: Amy J. Nunneley Senior Vice President
/s/ Amy J. Nunneley
STATE OF
Alabama
COUNTY OF
Jefferson
On this the 24th day of January, 2006, personally appeared Amy J. Nunneley, as Senior Vice President of Colonial Bank, N.A., an Alabama corporation (the "Bank"), and before me executed this Eighth Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, on behalf of the Bank.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and official seal.
/sNicole L. LaRue Signature of Notary Public, State of Alabama Nicole L. LaRue
/
(Print, Type or Stamp Commissioned Name of Notary Public) Personally known; OR Produced Identification Type of ID produced
     
     
(NOTARIAL SEAL)
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
By: Elizabeth Kurilecz Senior Vice President
/s/ Elizabeth Kurilecz
BNP PARIBAS
By: Richard Pace Managing Director
/s/ Richard Pace
By: Angela B. Arnold Vice President
/s/ Angela B. Arnold
WASHINGTON MUTUAL BANK, FA
By: Cyndi R. Lopez Vice President
/s/ Cyndi R. Lopez
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK
By: Cynthia E. Crites Senior Vice President
/s/ Cynthia E. Crites
SCHEDULE 5


