FILE:DHI/DHI-8K-20071005161653.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the year ended September 30, 2007, the Board of Directors of D.R. Horton, Inc. (the "Company"), on recommendation of the Compensation Committee, approved annual discretionary bonuses to the executive officers listed below consistent with past practices. All of the executive officers set forth below were "named executive officers" (as defined in Item 402(a)(3) of Regulation S-K) of the Company as of the end of the Company's 2007 fiscal year ending on September 30, 2007. There have been no changes to the discretionary bonus plans of the below listed named executive officers as previously approved by the Compensation Committee and the Board of Directors. A summary of the bonuses is also attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and Exhibit 10.1 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
For the year ended September 30, 2007, the Board of Directors of D.R. Horton, Inc. (the "Company"), on recommendation of the Compensation Committee, approved annual discretionary bonuses to the executive officers listed below consistent with past practices. All of the executive officers set forth below were "named executive officers" (as defined in Item 402(a)(3) of Regulation S-K) of the Company as of the end of the Company's 2007 fiscal year ending on September 30, 2007. There have been no changes to the discretionary bonus plans of the below listed named executive officers as previously approved by the Compensation Committee and the Board of Directors.
 


