FILE:DHI/DHI-8K-20070703163436.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Effective June 29, 2007, CH Funding LLC, a subsidiary of D.R. Horton, Inc., entered into a Second Omnibus Amendment (the "Second Amendment") to that certain Second Amended and Restated Loan Agreement, dated June 30, 2006 (the "CP Facility"). The parties to the Second Amendment are CH Funding, LLC, a borrower, Atlantic Asset Securitization LLC, an issuer, La Fayette Asset Securitization LLC, an issuer, Falcon Asset Securitization Company LLC, an issuer, Barton Capital LLC, an issuer, Liberty Street Funding Corp., an issuer, Charta, LLC, an issuer, YC Susi Trust, an issuer, Calyon New York Branch, the administrative agent, a bank and a managing agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., a bank and a managing agent, Bank of America, N.A., a bank and a managing agent, Citibank, N.A., a bank, Citicorp North America, Inc., a managing agent, The Bank of Nova Scotia, a bank and a managing agent, Societe Generale, a bank and a managing agent, Lloyds TSB Bank PLC, a bank, and DHI Mortgage Company, Ltd., a subsidiary of D.R. Horton, Inc., the servicer and the seller, and U.S. Bank National Association, the collateral agent.
The Second Amendment was entered into for the purposes of amending the CP Facility and certain other related documents (collectively with the CP Facility, the "Operative Documents") to decrease the maximum capacity under the CP Facility from $800 million to $600 million and to extend the annual extension date to June 27, 2008. The CP Facility expiration date remains June 27, 2009, subject to the annual renewal of its 364-day backup liquidity feature. Except as specifically amended, all of the provisions of the Operative Documents and all of the provisions of all other documentation required to be delivered with respect thereto shall remain in full force and effect from and after the date hereof.
The CP Facility is secured by certain mortgage loans held for sale and is not guaranteed by D.R. Horton, Inc. or any of the guarantors of its homebuilding debt. The mortgage loans assigned to secure the CP Facility are used as collateral for asset backed commercial paper issued by multi-seller conduits in the commercial paper market. The Second Amendment is filed herewith as an Exhibit 10.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibit:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 3, 2007
D. R. Horton, Inc.
By: Bill W. Wheat Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer
/s
/
Bill W. Wheat                                                       
 

 
EXHIBIT 10.1
THIS SECOND OMNIBUS AMENDMENT (this ""), dated as of June 29, 2007, by and among CH FUNDING, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the ""), as the Borrower, ATLANTIC ASSET SECURITIZATION LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), as an Issuer, LA FAYETTE ASSET SECURITIZATION LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), as an Issuer, FALCON ASSET SECURITIZATION COMPANY LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), as an Issuer, BARTON CAPITAL LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), as an Issuer, LIBERTY STREET FUNDING LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), as an Issuer, CHARTA, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), as an Issuer, YC SUSI TRUST, a Delaware statutory trust (""), as an Issuer, CALYON NEW YORK BRANCH (""), as a Bank, as the Administrative Agent and as a Managing Agent, JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A. (""), as a Bank and as a Managing Agent, BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. (""), as a Bank and as a Managing Agent, CITIBANK, N.A. (""), as a Bank, CITICORP NORTH AMERICA, INC. (""), as a Managing Agent, THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA (""), as a Bank and as a Managing Agent, SOCIETE GENERALE (""), as a Bank and as a Managing Agent, LLOYDS TSB BANK PLC (""), as a Bank, and DHI MORTGAGE COMPANY, LTD., a Texas limited partnership (""), as the Servicer (the "") and as the Seller (the "") and U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as the Collateral Agent (""). Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein are used as defined in the related Operative Documents (as defined below).
Amendment
Borrower
Atlantic
La Fayette
Falcon
Barton
Liberty
CHARTA
YC
Calyon New York
JPMorgan
Bank of America
Citibank
Citicorp
Scotia Capital
SG
Lloyds
DHI Mortgage
Servicer
Seller
U.S. Bank
WHEREAS, the Servicer (then named CH Mortgage Company I, Ltd.), as the Seller, and the Borrower, as the Purchaser, entered into that certain Master Repurchase Agreement and Addendum to the Master Repurchase Agreement incorporated therein, dated as of July 9, 2002, as amended by the Second Amended and Restated Addendum to Master Repurchase Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2006 (as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or modified from time to time, the "");
Repurchase Agreement
WHEREAS, the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and U.S. Bank entered into that certain Amended and Restated Collateral Agency Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2006, as amended (the "");
Collateral Agency Agreement
WHEREAS, the Borrower, Atlantic, La Fayette, Falcon, Barton, Liberty, CHARTA, YC, JPMorgan, Bank of America, Citibank, Citicorp, Scotia Capital, SG, Lloyds, Calyon New York and the Servicer, have entered into that certain Second Amended and Restated Loan Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2006 (as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or modified from time to time, the "" and, collectively with the Repurchase Agreement, the Collateral Agency Agreement and the Security Agreement, the ");
Loan Agreement
Operative Documents
 
WHEREAS, the Borrower, Atlantic, La Fayette, Falcon, Barton, Liberty, CHARTA, YC, JPMorgan, Bank of America, Citibank, Citicorp, Scotia Capital, SG, Lloyds, Calyon New York, U.S. Bank and the Servicer, have entered into that certain First Omnibus Amendment, dated as of December 13, 2006, amending the Operative Documents; and
WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to further amend the Operative Documents as hereinafter set forth.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
Section 1. Amendment to Repurchase Agreement.
a. The definition of "Annual Extension Date" in the Repurchase Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following definition:
"" shall mean (i) June 27, 2008 or (ii) if consented to by the Lenders, the Managing Agents and the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 2.1(b) of the Loan Agreement, the date that is specified by the Lenders, the Managing Agents and the Administrative Agent in the applicable consent, which date shall not be more than 364 days following the then effective Annual Extension Date; provided, however, that any extension of the Annual Extension Date shall not extend the Drawdown Termination Date.
Annual Extension Date
b. The definition of "Issuer Facility Amount" in the Repurchase Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following definition:
"" means (a) with respect to Atlantic and La Fayette, on an aggregate basis, $225,000,000, (b) with respect to Falcon, $75,000,000, (c) with respect to Barton, $75,000,000, (d) with respect to YC, $75,000,000, (e) with respect to CHARTA, $75,000,000 and (f) with respect to Liberty, $75,000,000. Any reduction (or termination) of the Maximum Facility Amount pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall reduce ratably (or terminate) the Issuer Facility Amount of each Issuer.
Issuer Facility Amount
c. The definition of "Maximum Facility Amount" in the Repurchase Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following definition:
"" means $600,000,000, as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.1(c) of the Loan Agreement.
Maximum Facility Amount
Section 2.
Amendment to Collateral Agency Agreement.
a. The definition of "Annual Extension Date" in the Collateral Agency Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following definition:
"" shall mean (i) June 27, 2008 and (ii) thereafter, if consented to by the Lenders, the Managing Agents and the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 2.1(b) of the Loan Agreement, the date that is specified by the Lenders, the Managing Agents and the Administrative Agent in the applicable consent, which date shall not be more than 364 days following the then effective Annual Extension Date; provided, however, that any extension of the Annual Extension Date shall not extend the Drawdown Termination Date.
Annual Extension Date
 
b. Exhibit D-1 to the Collateral Agency Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the definition of "Issuer Facility Amount" and replacing it with the following definition:
"" means (a) with respect to Atlantic and La Fayette, on an aggregate basis, $225,000,000, (b) with respect to Falcon, $75,000,000, (c) with respect to Barton, $75,000,000, (d) with respect to YC, $75,000,000, (e) with respect to CHARTA, $75,000,000 and (f) with respect to Liberty, $75,000,000. Any reduction (or termination) of the Maximum Facility Amount pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall reduce ratably (or terminate) the Issuer Facility Amount of each Issuer.
Issuer Facility Amount
c. Exhibit D-1 to the Collateral Agency Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the definition of "Maximum Facility Amount" therein and replacing it with the following definition:
"" means $600,000,000, as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.1(c) of the Loan Agreement.
Maximum Facility Amount
Section 3.
Amendment to Loan Agreement.
a. The definition of "Annual Extension Date" in the Loan Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following definition:
"" means (i) June 27, 2008, or (ii) if consented to by the Lenders, the Managing Agents and the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 2.1(b), the date that is specified by the Lenders, the Managing Agents and the Administrative Agent in the applicable consent, which date shall not be more than 364 days following the then effective Annual Extension Date; provided, however, that any extension of the Annual Extension Date shall not extend the Drawdown Termination Date.
Annual Extension Date
b. The definition of "Issuer Facility Amount" in the Loan Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following definition:
"" means (a) with respect to Atlantic and La Fayette, on an aggregate basis, $225,000,000, (b) with respect to Falcon, $75,000,000, (c) with respect to Barton, $75,000,000, (d) with respect to YC, $75,000,000, (e) with respect to CHARTA, $75,000,000 and (f) with respect to Liberty, $75,000,000. Any reduction (or termination) of the Maximum Facility Amount pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall reduce ratably (or terminate) the Issuer Facility Amount of each Issuer.
Issuer Facility Amount
c. The definition of "Maximum Facility Amount" in the Loan Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following definition:
 
"" means $600,000,000, as such amount may be reduced pursuant to of this Agreement."
Maximum Facility Amount
Section 2.1(c)
d. Schedule I to the Loan Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with Schedule I, Bank Commitments and Percentages, attached as hereto.
Annex A
e. The Borrower, Atlantic, La Fayette, Falcon, Barton, Liberty, CHARTA, YC, JPMorgan, Bank of America, Citibank, Citicorp, Scotia Capital, SG, Lloyds, Calyon New York and the Servicer hereby waive, with respect to the extension of the Annual Extension Date hereinabove provided, the terms of Section 2.1(b) of the Loan Agreement insofar as they relate to (a) the methods and timing for notices of request and consent to an extension of the Annual Extension Date and (b) the respective effects thereof.
Section 4.
Operative Documents in Full Force and Effect as Amended.
Except as specifically amended hereby, all of the provisions of the Operative Documents and all of the provisions of all other documentation required to be delivered with respect thereto shall remain in full force and effect from and after the date hereof.
Section 5.
Miscellaneous.
a. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which when taken together shall not constitute a novation of any Operative Document, but shall constitute an amendment thereof. The parties hereto agree to be bound by the terms and conditions of each Operative Document, as amended by this Amendment, as though such terms and conditions were set forth herein.
b. The descriptive headings of the various sections of this Amendment are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not be deemed to affect the meaning or construction of any of the provisions hereof.
c. This Amendment may not be amended or otherwise modified except as provided in each respective Operative Agreement.
d. This Amendment and the rights and obligations of the parties under this amendment shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the state of New York (without giving effect to the conflict of laws principles thereof, other than Sections 5-1401 and 5-1402 of the New York General Obligations Law, which shall apply hereto).
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have agreed to this Amendment and caused this Amendment to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX A


