FILE:DHI/DHI-8K-20080630164220.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Effective June 26, 2008, D.R. Horton, Inc. entered into a Fifth Amendment to the Company's unsecured Revolving Credit Agreement dated December 16, 2005 . The Fifth Amendment was entered into by and among the Company, the lenders, guarantors, administrative agent and others listed therein, with Wachovia Bank, National Association serving as Administrative Agent. 
(the "Company")
(the "Fifth Amendment")
(as previously amended, the "Credit Facility" and together with the Fifth Amendment, the "Amended Credit Facility")
The Fifth Amendment amends the Credit Facility to decrease the Company's required tangible net worth minimum to $2.0 billion, plus 50% of annual net profits (with no deduction for annual net losses) earned for each completed fiscal year subsequent to September 30, 2007, plus 50% of increases in shareholders' equity from certain equity transactions in excess of $500 million, plus 100% of the effect on annual net profits for each fiscal year after September 30, 2007 of any reversal in any Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance, to the date of determination. The Fifth Amendment modifies Net Funded Notes Payable to allow all cash in excess of $50 million to be deducted from Indebtedness for purposes of calculating the Leverage Ratio. In addition, the Fifth Amendment modifies the covenant limiting the Net Book Value of Land and Lots from 150% of Adjusted Tangible Net Worth to 200% of Adjusted Tangible Net Worth when the Net Book Value of Land and Lots is equal to or less than $4.74 billion and modifies Tangible Net Worth to include certain capital stock.
The Fifth Amendment also decreases the facility size from $2.25 billion to $1.65 billion, with an uncommitted accordion feature which can increase the facility size to $2.05 billion. The Amended Credit Facility remains subject to a borrowing base limitation which limits the amount the Company may borrow from any source. The borrowing base limitation was $1.3 billion at March 31, 2008. At June 30, 2008, the Company had no cash borrowings outstanding under the Amended Credit Facility.
The Fifth Amendment increases the Applicable Margin for both drawn and undrawn pricing. Borrowings bear interest at rates based upon the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a spread based upon the Company's ratio of homebuilding debt to total capitalization, its ratio of adjusted EBITDA to adjusted interest incurred and its senior unsecured debt rating. In addition to the stated interest rates, the revolving credit facility requires the Company to pay certain fees.
Amounts borrowed under the Amended Credit Facility are guaranteed by substantially all of the Company's wholly-owned homebuilding subsidiaries, other than its financial services subsidiaries (which include mortgage, title and insurance subsidiaries) and certain other inconsequential subsidiaries.
The above description is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the Fifth Amendment, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
All the information set forth above under Item 1.01 "Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03. The Fifth Amendment is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) 
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 30, 2008
D.R. Horton, Inc.
By:        Bill W. Wheat        Executive Vice President and        Chief Financial Officer
/s/ Bill W. Wheat
 

Exhibit 10.1
THIS FIFTH AMENDMENT TO REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT (this "") is made as of the 26day of June, 2008, by and among D.R. HORTON, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), the lenders listed on the signature pages hereof (collectively referred to herein as the ""), the Guarantors listed on Schedule 1 attached hereto (each a "" and collectively, the ""), WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Administrative Agent for the Lenders (the ""), Swingline Lender and a Letter of Credit Issuer.
Amendment
th
Borrower
Lenders
Guarantor
Guarantors
Administrative Agent
The Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders have entered into that certain Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of December 16, 2005 (the "") and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and certain of the Lenders have entered into that certain First Amendment to Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of November 1, 2006 (the ""), that certain Second Amendment to Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of March 14, 2007 (the ""), that certain Third Amendment to Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of July 6, 2007 (the ""), and that certain Fourth Amendment to Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of January 4, 2008 (the ""; the Original Credit Agreement, as amended by the First Amendment, the Second Amendment, the Third Amendment, and the Fourth Amendment, is hereinafter referred to as the ""). Capitalized terms used in this Amendment which are not otherwise defined in this Amendment shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in the Credit Agreement.
Original Credit Agreement
First Amendment
Second Amendment
Third Amendment
Fourth Amendment
Credit Agreement
The Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders desire to amend the Credit Agreement in certain respects.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the Recitals and the mutual promises contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Borrower, the Guarantors, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:
SECTION 1. . The Recitals are incorporated herein by reference and shall be deemed to be a part of this Amendment.
Recitals
 
SECTION 2. .
Amendments
(a) The first table in the definition of "" in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Applicable Margin
(b) The definition of "" in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Net Funded Notes Payable
"" means, for Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries as of any date, (a) the aggregate amount of all Indebtedness (including the pro rata portion of Indebtedness of a joint venture in which Borrower or a Restricted Subsidiary holds an equity interest, based on Borrower's or such Restricted Subsidiary's equity interest in such joint venture) (b) unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, net of outstanding cash borrowings under this Agreement, in excess of $50,000,000 based upon the average of the month-end balances of unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and outstanding cash borrowings under the Credit Agreement for the fiscal quarter most recently ended.
Net Funded Notes Payable
minus
 
(c) The definition of "" in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Tangible Net Worth
"" means, with respect to Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries, the sum of (i) the net worth of Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries, as defined under GAAP, (ii) to the extent not otherwise included in clause (i), amounts reflected on the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries attributable to capital stock that does not constitute Indebtedness, (iii) all "", but excluding any non-cash gain or loss resulting from any mark-to-market adjustments made directly to the net worth of Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis as a result of fluctuations in the value of financial instruments owned by Borrower or any such Restricted Subsidiaries as mandated under SFAS 133.
Tangible Net Worth
plus
less
intangible assets
(d) Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following definitions in alphabetical order:
"" means any valuation allowance applied to deferred tax assets as determined in accordance with GAAP and included in the financial statements of the Borrower.
Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance
"" means the net book value determined in accordance with GAAP of Developed Lots, Lots Under Development, and Land Parcels as of the date of determination.
Net Book Value of Land and Lots
(e) The definition of "" in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Total Revolving Credit Commitment
"" means, as of any date of determination, the sum of all Revolving Credit Commitments for all Lenders then in effect, which sum shall not exceed $1,650,000,000 unless the Total Revolving Credit Commitment is increased pursuant to .
Total Revolving Credit Commitment
Section 2.10(b)
(f) Section 6.8 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Until the Obligations are repaid in full and the expiration or termination of all Letters of Credit and the Total Revolving Credit Commitment, Borrower shall adhere to the following financial covenants, all on a consolidated basis with the Restricted Subsidiaries and determined as of the last day of each fiscal quarter of Borrower:
Financial and Inventory Covenants.
(a) Borrower shall maintain at all times a Leverage Ratio of not more than 0.55 to 1;
(b) If the Borrower shall fail to maintain for any two consecutive fiscal quarters ending on and after December 31, 2007 an Interest Coverage Ratio equal to or greater than 1.50 to 1.00 for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters then ended, then as of the end of such second consecutive fiscal quarter and as of the end of all fiscal quarters thereafter until the Interest Coverage Ratio is greater than or equal to 1.50 to 1.00, the Borrower shall either maintain (i) a ratio of (A) Adjusted Cash Flow from Operations to (B) Interest Incurred of greater than or equal to 1.50 to 1.00 or (ii) a sum of (y) Loan Funding Availability plus (z) unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, to the extent such unrestricted cash and cash equivalents are not included in calculating Loan Funding Availability, equal to or greater than $500,000,000.
 
(c) Borrower shall maintain at all times Tangible Net Worth of not less than the sum of (i) $2,000,000,000, (ii) fifty percent (50%) of annual net profits (with no deduction for any annual net loss and excluding the effect on annual net profits of any reversal in any Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance) for each fiscal year ending after September 30, 2007, (iii) fifty percent (50%) of the aggregate increase in shareholders' equity of Borrower after September 30, 2007 exceeding $500,000,000, by reason of the issuance of capital stock of Borrower (including upon conversion of Indebtedness into such capital stock but excluding (x) stock issued in connection with an employee stock ownership plan, an employee stock option plan, or an employee stock purchase plan, and (y) any portion of such increase in shareholders' equity attributable to goodwill recognized in connection with an Acquisition), (iv) 100% of the effect on annual net profits for each fiscal year ending after September 30, 2007 of any reversal in any Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance as of the date of determination;
plus
plus
plus
(d) The total number of Speculative Lots owned by Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries at any given time shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of all Closed Sales during the immediately preceding twelve (12) calendar months. Models shall not be considered "Speculative Lots" for purposes of this Section 6.8(d); and
(e) The Net Book Value of Land and Lots shall not exceed at any time (i) one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the Adjusted Tangible Net Worth when the Net Book Value of Land and Lots exceeds $4,740,000,000; and (ii) two hundred percent (200%) of the Adjusted Tangible Net Worth when the Net Book Value of Land and Lots is equal to or less than $4,740,000,000;
, that the limitations set forth in the preceding and shall not be operative during any period in which Borrower maintains an Investment Grade Rating by at least two (2) of Moody's, S&P, and Fitch.
provided, however
subsections (d)
(e)
(g) Exhibit D to the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as Exhibit D attached hereto.
 
(h) The Borrower's notice address in Schedule 2.1 to the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
SECTION 3. . At the request of the Borrower, the amount of the Total Revolving Credit Commitment is hereby reduced to $1,650,000,000 and such reduction shall be allocated to each Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment ratably in accordance with its Commitment Ratio. The Borrower represents, warrants and certifies that this reduction in the Total Revolving Credit Commitment is in accordance with Section 2.14 of the Credit Agreement.
Reduction of Aggregate Commitment
SECTION 4. . The effectiveness of this Amendment and the obligations of the Lenders hereunder are subject to satisfaction of the following conditions, and upon satisfaction of the following conditions, this Amendment shall be effective as of the day and year first above written:
Conditions to Effectiveness
(a) receipt by the Administrative Agent from the Borrower, the Guarantors, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders constituting Required Lenders (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of a duly executed counterpart of this Amendment;
(b) the fact that the representations and warranties of the Borrower and each Guarantor contained in Article 5 of the Credit Agreement and of this Amendment shall be true on and as of the date hereof;
Section 6
(c) payment by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent of an amendment fee of .20% of each Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment for each Lender approving this Amendment after giving effect to the reduction of the Total Revolving Credit Commitment in of this Amendment and all other fees and expenses (including without limitation the fees and expenses of counsel to the Administrative Agent and fees related to the reduction of the Total Revolving Credit Commitment in accordance with Section 2.14 of the Credit Agreement and of this Amendment) payable on the date of this Amendment to the applicable Lenders and the Administrative Agent;
Section 3
Section 3
 
(d) payment by the Borrower of all other fees and expenses (including without limitation the fees and expenses of counsel to the Administrative Agent) payable on the date of this Amendment in connection herewith; and
(e) receipt of such other documents that the Administrative Agent may reasonably require.
SECTION 5. . Except for the amendments set forth herein, the text of the Credit Agreement shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect. This Amendment is not intended to effect, nor shall it be construed as, a novation. The Credit Agreement and this Amendment shall be construed together as a single agreement. Nothing herein contained shall waive, annul, vary or affect any provision, condition, covenant or agreement contained in the Credit Agreement, except as herein amended or waived, nor affect or impair any rights, powers or remedies under the Credit Agreement as hereby amended. The Lenders and the Administrative Agent do hereby reserve all of their rights and remedies against all parties who may be or may hereafter become secondarily liable for the repayment of the Obligations. The Borrower promises and agrees to perform all of the requirements, conditions, agreements and obligations under the terms of the Credit Agreement, as heretofore and hereby amended, the Credit Agreement, as amended, being hereby ratified and affirmed. The Borrower hereby expressly agrees that the Credit Agreement, as amended, is in full force and effect.
No Other Amendment
SECTION 6. . The Borrower and each Guarantor hereby represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders as follows:
Representations and Warranties
(a) No Default or Event of Default under the Credit Agreement has occurred and is continuing on the date hereof.
(b) The Borrower and each Guarantor each has the power and authority to enter into this Amendment and to do all acts and things as are required or contemplated hereunder, or thereunder, to be done, observed and performed by it.
(c) The execution, delivery and performance by each of the Borrower and each Guarantor of this Amendment and each Loan Document to which such Person is a party that is being delivered in connection with this Amendment have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action, and do not and will not (i) contravene the terms of any of such Person's Organizational Documents or Authority Documents, (ii) conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of, or the creation of any Lien under, any contractual obligation to which such Person is party or another order, injunction, writ or decree of any Governmental Authority to which such Person or its property is subject, or (iii) violate any Applicable Law.
(d) This Amendment and each Loan Document being delivered in connection with this Amendment have each been duly executed and delivered by the Borrower and each Guarantor that is party hereto and thereto. This Amendment and each such Loan Document each constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and each Guarantor that is a party thereto, enforceable against the Borrower and each Guarantor in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may be limited by applicable Debtor Relief Laws and general principles of equity.
 
SECTION 7. . This Amendment may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which, taken together, shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
SECTION 8. . THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA; THAT THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, LETTER OF CREDIT ISSUERS AND LENDERS SHALL RETAIN ALL RIGHTS ARISING UNDER FEDERAL LAW.
GOVERNING LAW
PROVIDED
SECTION 9. . The Guarantors consent to this Amendment. Each Guarantor promises and agrees to perform all of the requirements, conditions, agreements and obligations under the terms of the Subsidiary Guaranty to which it is a party, such Subsidiary Guaranty being hereby ratified and affirmed. Each Guarantor hereby expressly agrees that the Subsidiary Guaranty to which it is a party is in full force and effect.
Consent by Guarantors
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed and delivered, or have caused their respective duly authorized officers or representatives to execute and deliver, this Amendment as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
C. Richard Dobson Builders, Inc., a Virginia corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
CH Investments of Texas, Inc., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
CHI Construction Company, an Arizona corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
CHTEX of Texas, Inc., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Continental Homes of Texas, L.P., a Texas limited partnership, by CHTEX of Texas, Inc., its General Partner, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Continental Homes, Inc., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Continental Residential, Inc., a California corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
D. R. Horton, Inc.  Fresno, a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
D.R. Horton  Emerald, Ltd., a Texas limited partnership, by Meadows I, Ltd., its General Partner, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
D.R. Horton  Texas, Ltd., a Texas limited partnership, by Meadows I, Ltd., its General Partner, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
D.R. Horton LA North, Inc. , a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
(f/k/a DRH Regrem X, Inc.)
D.R. Horton Los Angeles Holding Company, Inc., a California corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
D.R. Horton Management Company, Ltd., a Texas limited partnership, by Meadows I, Ltd., its General Partner, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
D.R. Horton Materials, Inc., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
D.R. Horton OCI, Inc., , a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
(f/k/a D.R. Horton Orange County, Inc.)
 
D.R. Horton VEN, Inc. , a California corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
(f/k/a D.R. Horton San Diego Holding Company, Inc.)
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Birmingham, an Alabama corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Chicago, a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Denver, a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Dietz-Crane, a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Greensboro, a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Gulf Coast, a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Jacksonville, a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Louisville, a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Minnesota, a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
D.R. Horton, Inc.  New Jersey, a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Portland, a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Sacramento, a California corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Torrey, a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
D.R. Horton-Schuler Homes, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Vertical Construction Corporation, a manager, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
DRH Cambridge Homes, Inc., a California corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
DRH Cambridge Homes, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by D.R. Horton, Inc.  Chicago, a managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
 
DRH Construction, Inc., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
DRH Regrem VII, LP, a Texas limited partnership, by Meadows I, Ltd., its General Partner, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
DRH Regrem VIII, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by D.R. Horton, Inc.  Chicago, a managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
DRH Regrem XI, Inc. a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
DRH Regrem XII, LP, a Texas limited partnership, by Meadows I, Ltd., its General Partner, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
DRH Southwest Construction, Inc., a California corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
DRH Tucson Construction, Inc., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
DRHI, Inc., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
HPH Homebuilders 2000, L.P., a California limited partnership, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., a General Partner, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
KDB Homes, Inc., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Meadows I, Ltd., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Meadows II, Ltd., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Meadows IX, Inc., a New Jersey corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Meadows VIII, Ltd., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Meadows X, Inc., a New Jersey corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Melmort Co., a Colorado corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Melody Homes, Inc., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
 
Schuler Homes of Arizona LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by SRHI LLC, a managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Schuler Homes of California, Inc., a California corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Schuler Homes of Oregon, Inc., an Oregon corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Schuler Homes of Washington, Inc., a Washington corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Schuler Mortgage, Inc., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Schuler Realty Hawaii, Inc., a Hawaii corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
SGS Communities at Grande Quay, LLC, a New Jersey limited liability company, by Meadows IX, Inc., a managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
SHA Construction LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by SRHI, LLC, a managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
SHLR of California, Inc., a California corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
SHLR of Colorado, Inc., a Colorado corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
SHLR of Nevada, Inc., a Nevada corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
SHLR of Utah, Inc., a Utah corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
SHLR of Washington, Inc., a Washington corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
SRHI LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by SHLR of Nevada, Inc., a managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
SSHI LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by SHLR of Washington, a managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Vertical Construction Corporation, a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Funding, Inc., a California corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Executive Vice President
 
Western Pacific Housing  Aviara, L.P., a California limited partnership, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its General Partner, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing  Oso, L.P., a California limited partnership, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its General Partner, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing  Scripps, L.P., a California limited partnership, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its General Partner, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing  Seacove, L.P., a California limited partnership, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its General Partner, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing  Windflower, L.P., a California limited partnership, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its General Partner, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing Co., a California limited partnership, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its General Partner, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., a California corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing, Inc., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Antigua, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Boardwalk, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its manager, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Broadway, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its manager member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Canyon Park, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Carmel, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
 
Western Pacific Housing-Carrillo, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Communications Hill, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Copper Canyon, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Creekside, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Culver City, L.P., a California limited partnership, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its General Partner, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Del Valle, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Lomas Verdes, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Lost Hills Park, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-McGonigle Canyon, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Mountaingate, L.P. a California limited partnership, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its General Partner, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Norco Estates, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Pacific Park II, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
 
Western Pacific Housing-Park Avenue East, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its manager, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Park Avenue West, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its manager, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Playa Vista, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its manager, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Poinsettia, L.P., a California limited partnership, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its General Partner, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-River Ridge, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its manager, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Robinhood Ridge, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Santa Fe, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Scripps II, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Studio 528, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its manager, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Terra Bay Duets, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its manager, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Torrance, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its manager, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Torrey Commercial, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
 
Western Pacific Housing-Torrey Meadows, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its manager, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Torrey Multi-Family, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Torrey Village Center, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Vineyard Terrace, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
Western Pacific Housing-Windemere, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its manager, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
WPH-Camino Ruiz, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, by Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., its managing member, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer
DRH Regrem XIII, Inc., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
DRH Regrem XIV, Inc., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
DRH Regrem XV, Inc., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
DRH Regrem XVI, Inc., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
DRH Regrem XVII, Inc., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
DRH Regrem XVIII, Inc., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
DRH Regrem XIX, Inc., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
DRH Regrem XX, Inc., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 
DRH Regrem XXI, Inc., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
DRH Regrem XXII, Inc., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
DRH Regrem XXIII, Inc., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
DRH Regrem XXIV, Inc., a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
DRH Regrem XXV, Inc. , a Delaware corporation, by Bill W. Wheat in his capacity as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(f/k/a D.R. Horton, Inc.  Los Angeles)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C. Richard Dobson Builders, Inc., a Virginia corporation
CH Investments of Texas, Inc., a Delaware corporation
CHI Construction Company, an Arizona corporation
CHTEX of Texas, Inc., a Delaware corporation
Continental Homes, Inc., a Delaware corporation
Continental Homes of Texas, L.P., a Texas limited partnership
Continental Residential, Inc., a California corporation
D.R. Horton  Emerald, Ltd., a Texas limited partnership
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Birmingham, an Alabama corporation
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Chicago, a Delaware corporation
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Denver, a Delaware corporation
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Dietz-Crane, a Delaware corporation
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Fresno, a Delaware corporation
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Greensboro, a Delaware corporation
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Gulf Coast, a Delaware corporation
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Jacksonville, a Delaware corporation
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Louisville, a Delaware corporation
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Minnesota, a Delaware corporation
D.R. Horton, Inc.  New Jersey, a Delaware corporation
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Portland, a Delaware corporation
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Sacramento, a California corporation
D.R. Horton, Inc.  Torrey, a Delaware corporation
D.R. Horton LA North, Inc. , a Delaware corporation
(f/k/a DRH Regrem X, Inc.)
 
D.R. Horton Los Angeles Holding Company, Inc., a California corporation
D.R. Horton Management Company, Ltd., a Texas limited partnership
D.R. Horton Materials, Inc., a Delaware corporation
D.R. Horton OCI, Inc. , a Delaware corporation
(f/k/a D.R. Horton Orange County, Inc.)
D.R. Horton VEN, Inc. , a California corporation
(f/k/a D.R. Horton San Diego Holding Company, Inc.)
D.R. Horton  Texas, Ltd., a Texas limited partnership
DRH Cambridge Homes, Inc., a California corporation
DRH Cambridge Homes, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
DRH Construction, Inc., a Delaware corporation
DRH Regrem VII, LP, a Texas limited partnership
DRH Regrem VIII, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
DRH Southwest Construction, Inc., California corporation
DRH Tucson Construction, Inc., a Delaware corporation
DRHI, Inc., a Delaware corporation
KDB Homes, Inc., a Delaware corporation
Meadows I, Ltd., a Delaware corporation
Meadows II, Ltd., a Delaware corporation
Meadows VIII, Ltd., a Delaware corporation
Meadows IX, Inc., a New Jersey corporation
Meadows X, Inc., a New Jersey corporation
SGS Communities at Grande Quay, LLC, a New Jersey limited liability company
D.R. Horton-Schuler Homes, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
HPH Homebuilders 2000, L.P., a California limited partnership
Melody Homes, Inc., a Delaware corporation
Melmort Co., a Colorado corporation
Schuler Homes of Arizona LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
 
Schuler Homes of California, Inc., a California corporation
Schuler Homes of Oregon, Inc., an Oregon corporation
Schuler Homes of Washington, Inc., a Washington corporation
Schuler Mortgage, Inc., a Delaware corporation
Schuler Realty Hawaii, Inc., a Hawaii corporation
SHA Construction LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
SHLR of California, Inc., a California corporation
SHLR of Colorado, Inc., a Colorado corporation
SHLR of Nevada, Inc., a Nevada corporation
SHLR of Utah, Inc., a Utah corporation
SHLR of Washington, Inc., a Washington corporation
SRHI LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
SSHI LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Vertical Construction Corporation, a Delaware corporation
Western Pacific Funding, Inc., a California corporation
Western Pacific Housing Co., a California limited partnership
Western Pacific Housing Management, Inc., a California corporation
Western Pacific Housing, Inc., a Delaware corporation
Western Pacific Housing-Antigua, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing  Aviara, L.P., a California limited partnership
Western Pacific Housing-Boardwalk, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-Broadway, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-Canyon Park, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-Carmel, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-Carrillo, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-Communications Hill, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
 
Western Pacific Housing-Copper Canyon, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-Creekside, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-Culver City, L.P., a California limited partnership
Western Pacific Housing-Del Valle, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-Lomas Verdes, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-Lost Hills Park, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-McGonigle Canyon, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-Mountaingate, L.P. a California limited partnership
Western Pacific Housing-Norco Estates, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing  Oso, L.P., a California limited partnership
Western Pacific Housing-Pacific Park II, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-Park Avenue East, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-Park Avenue West, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-Playa Vista, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-Poinsettia, L.P., a California limited partnership
Western Pacific Housing-River Ridge, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-Robinhood Ridge, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-Santa Fe, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-Scripps II, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing  Scripps, L.P., a California limited partnership
Western Pacific Housing  Seacove, L.P., a California limited partnership
Western Pacific Housing-Studio 528, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-Terra Bay Duets, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-Torrance, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-Torrey Commercial, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-Torrey Meadows, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
 
Western Pacific Housing-Torrey Multi-Family, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-Torrey Village Center, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-Vineyard Terrace, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing-Windemere, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
Western Pacific Housing  Windflower, L.P., a California limited partnership
WPH-Camino Ruiz, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
DRH Regrem XI, Inc. a Delaware corporation
DRH Regrem XII, LP, a Texas limited partnership
DRH Regrem XIII, Inc., a Delaware corporation
DRH Regrem XIV, Inc., a Delaware corporation
DRH Regrem XV, Inc., a Delaware corporation
DRH Regrem XVI, Inc., a Delaware corporation
DRH Regrem XVII, Inc., a Delaware corporation
DRH Regrem XVIII, Inc., a Delaware corporation
DRH Regrem XIX, Inc., a Delaware corporation
DRH Regrem XX, Inc., a Delaware corporation
DRH Regrem XXI, Inc., a Delaware corporation
DRH Regrem XXII, Inc., a Delaware corporation
DRH Regrem XXIII, Inc., a Delaware corporation
DRH Regrem XXIV, Inc., a Delaware corporation
DRH Regrem XXV, Inc. , a Delaware corporation
(f/k/a D.R. Horton, Inc.  Los Angeles)
 
This certificate is delivered under the Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of December  _____, 2005 (as modified, amended, renewed, extended, supplemented, or restated from time to time, the ""), among Borrower, Administrative Agent, the Letter of Credit Issuers defined therein, the Swingline Lender defined therein and the Lenders defined therein. Capitalized terms used herein shall, unless otherwise indicated, have the respective meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement.
Credit Agreement
I certify to Administrative Agent and Lenders that:
(a) I am an Authorized Signatory of Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries (for purposes hereof "") in the position(s) set forth under my signature below;
Companies
(b) the consolidated Current Financials of Borrower and its Subsidiaries delivered to Administrative Agent concurrently with the delivery hereof were prepared in accordance with GAAP; present fairly in all material respects the consolidated financial condition and results of operations of Borrower and its Subsidiaries; and serve as the basis for the status of compliance by Borrower with certain covenants in the Credit Agreement set forth on Annex I as of, and for the (three, six, or nine months, or fiscal year) ended on _____, _____, (the ""); and
Subject Period
(c) the status of compliance by Borrower with and of the Credit Agreement at the end of the Subject Period is as set forth on to this certificate; provided that Sections 6.8(d) and (e) may be labeled "not applicable" so long as Borrower has, as of the date hereof, an Investment Grade Rating by at least two (2) of Moody's, S&P and Fitch.
Sections 6.
8(a)
, (b), (c), (d)
(e)
Annex I
Exhibit D
 
Annex I to Exhibit D
 
Annex I to Exhibit D
 
Annex I to Exhibit D
 
Annex I to Exhibit D
 
Annex I to Exhibit D


