FILE:DHI/DHI-8K-20090820112234.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On August 19, 2009, the Board of Directors (the "") of D.R. Horton, Inc. (the "") declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right (each, a "") for each outstanding share of common stock, par value $0.01, of the Company. The dividend is payable on August 31, 2009 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 31, 2009.
Board
Company
Right
     The following is a summary description of the Rights. This summary is intended to provide a general description only and is subject to the detailed terms and conditions of the Section 382 Rights Agreement, dated as of August 19, 2009, between the Company and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, as Rights Agent (the ""), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1, which is incorporated herein by reference. All capitalized terms used herein but not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Rights Agreement.
Rights Agreement
     The Board adopted the Rights Agreement in an effort to protect stockholder value by attempting to diminish the risk that the Company's ability to use its net operating losses and unrealized losses (collectively, the "") to reduce potential future federal income tax obligations may become substantially limited. The Company has experienced and continues to experience substantial operating losses, including realized losses for tax purposes from sales of inventory and land previously written down for financial statement purposes, which would produce NOLs. Under the Internal Revenue Code and regulations promulgated by the U.S. Treasury Department, these NOLs may be "carried forward" in certain circumstances to offset any current and future taxable income and thus reduce federal income tax liability, subject to certain requirements and restrictions. To the extent that the NOLs do not otherwise become limited, the Company believes that it will be able to carry forward a significant amount of NOLs, and therefore these NOLs could be a substantial asset to the Company. However, if the Company experiences an "ownership change," as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, its ability to use the NOLs, including NOLs later arising from sales of land and inventory previously written down, may be substantially limited, and the timing of the usage of the NOLs could be substantially delayed, which could therefore significantly impair the value of that asset. A company experiences an "ownership change" for tax purposes if the percentage of stock owned by its 5% stockholders (as defined for tax purposes) increases by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period.
NOLs
     The Rights Agreement is intended to act as a deterrent to any person acquiring beneficial ownership of 4.9% or more of the Company's outstanding common stock within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder without the approval of the Board. Stockholders who beneficially own 4.9% or more of the Company's outstanding common stock as of the close of business on August 19, 2009 will not trigger the Rights Agreement so long as they do not acquire any additional shares of the Company's common stock at a time when they still beneficially own 4.9% or more of the Company's outstanding common stock. The Board may, in its sole discretion, also exempt any person from triggering the Rights Agreement.
 
     . The Board authorized the issuance of one Right per each outstanding share of the Company's common stock payable to the Company's stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 31, 2009. One Right will also be issued together with each share of the Company's common stock issued after August 31, 2009 but before the Distribution Date (as defined below) and, in certain circumstances, after the Distribution Date. Subject to the terms, provisions and conditions of the Rights Agreement, if the Rights become exercisable, each Right would initially represent the right to purchase from the Company one ten-thousandth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $0.10 per share, of the Company (the "") for a purchase price of $80.00 (the ""). If issued, each fractional share of Series A Preferred Stock would give the stockholder approximately the same dividend, voting and liquidation rights as does one share of the Company's common stock. However, prior to exercise, a Right does not give its holder any rights as a stockholder of the Company, including, without limitation, any dividend, voting or liquidation rights.
The Rights
Series A Preferred Stock
Purchase Price
     . The Rights will not be exercisable until the earlier of (i) ten business days after a public announcement that a person has become an "Acquiring Person" by acquiring beneficial ownership of 4.9% or more of the Company's outstanding common stock (or, in the case of a person that had beneficial ownership of 4.9% or more of the Company's outstanding common stock as of the close of business on August 19, 2009, by obtaining beneficial ownership of any additional shares of the Company's common stock) and (ii) ten business days (or such later date as may be specified by the Board prior to such time as any person becomes an Acquiring Person) after the commencement of a tender or exchange offer by or on behalf of a person that, if completed, would result in such person becoming an Acquiring Person.
Initial Exercisability
     The date that the Rights become exercisable is referred to as the "." Until the Distribution Date, the common stock certificates or the ownership statements issued with respect to uncertificated shares of common stock of the Company will evidence the Rights. Any transfer of shares of common stock prior to the Distribution Date will also constitute a transfer of the associated Rights. After the Distribution Date, separate rights certificates will be issued and the Rights may be transferred other than in connection with the transfer of the underlying shares of common stock unless and until the Board has determined to effect an exchange pursuant to the Rights Agreement (as described below).
Distribution Date
     . In the event that a person becomes an Acquiring Person, each holder of a Right, other than Rights that are or, under certain circumstances, were beneficially owned by the Acquiring Person (which will thereupon become void), will thereafter have the right to receive upon exercise of a Right and payment of the Purchase Price, a number of shares of the Company's common stock having a market value of two times the Purchase Price. However, Rights are not exercisable following the occurrence of a person becoming an Acquiring Person until such time as the Rights are no longer redeemable by the Company (as described below).
Flip-In Event
     At any time until ten calendar days following the Stock Acquisition Date, the Board may redeem the Rights in whole, but not in part, at a price of $0.00001 per Right (the ""). The redemption of the Rights may be made effective at such time, on such basis and with such conditions as the Board in its sole discretion may establish. Immediately
Redemption.
Redemption Price
 
upon any redemption of the Rights, the right to exercise the Rights will terminate and the only right of the holders of Rights will be to receive the Redemption Price.
     . At any time after a person becomes an Acquiring Person, the Board may exchange the Rights (other than Rights that have become void), in whole or in part, at an exchange ratio of one share of common stock, or a fractional share of Series A Preferred Stock (or of a share of a similar class or series of the Company's preferred stock having similar rights, preferences and privileges) of equivalent value, per Right (subject to adjustment). Immediately upon an exchange of any Rights, the right to exercise such Rights will terminate and the only right of the holders of Rights will be to receive the number of shares of common stock (or fractional share of Series A Preferred Stock or of a share of a similar class or series of the Company's preferred stock having similar rights, preferences and privileges) equal to the number of such Rights held by such holder multiplied by the exchange ratio.
Exchange
     The Company intends to submit the Rights Agreement for stockholder approval at a meeting of stockholders of the Company.
Stockholder Approval.
     . The Rights and the Rights Agreement will expire on the earliest of (i) August 19, 2019, (ii) the time at which the Rights are redeemed pursuant to the Rights Agreement, (iii) the time at which the Rights are exchanged in full pursuant to the Rights Agreement, (iv) the effective date of the repeal of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, or any successor provision or replacement provision, if the Board determines that the Rights Agreement is no longer necessary for the preservation of Tax Benefits, (v) the beginning of a taxable year of the Company for which the Board determines that the Company has or will have no Tax Benefits and (vi) August 19, 2010 if stockholder approval of the Rights Agreement has not been obtained.
Expiration
     . The Board may adjust the Purchase Price, the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock or other securities or assets issuable and the number of outstanding Rights to prevent dilution that may occur as a result of certain events, including among others, a stock dividend, a stock split or a reclassification of the Series A Preferred Stock or the Company's common stock. With certain exceptions, no adjustments to the Purchase Price will be required until cumulative adjustments amount to at least 1% of the Purchase Price.
Anti-Dilution Provisions
     . For so long as the Rights are redeemable, the Board may supplement or amend any provision of the Rights Agreement in any respect without the approval of the holders of the Rights. From and after the time the Rights are no longer redeemable, the Board may supplement or amend the Rights Agreement only to cure an ambiguity, to alter time period provisions, to correct inconsistent provisions, or to make any additional changes to the Rights Agreement which the Company may deem necessary or desirable, but only to the extent that those changes do not impair or adversely affect any Rights holder (other than an Acquiring Person or any Affiliate or Associate of an Acquiring Person or certain of their transferees) and do not result in the Rights again becoming redeemable or the Rights Agreement again becoming amendable other than in accordance with this sentence.
Amendments
 
Item 3.03 Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders.
     See the description set out under "Item 1.01  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement," which is incorporated by reference into this Item 3.03.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
     In connection with the adoption of the Rights Agreement described in Item 1.01 above, the Board of Directors approved a Certificate of Designation, Preferences, and Rights of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of D.R. Horton, Inc. (the ""). The Certificate of Designation was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware and became effective on August 19, 2009. The Certificate of Designation is attached to the Form 8-A filed by the Company on August 20, 2009 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Certificate of Designation
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     On August 19, 2009, the Company announced the declaration of the dividend of Rights and issued a press release relating to such declaration, a copy of which is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 20, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 D.R. Horton, Inc. (NYSE:DHI), America's Builder, announced today that its Board of Directors (the "Board") has approved the adoption of a tax benefits preservation plan in the form of a Section 382 Rights Agreement designed to preserve the value of certain deferred tax assets primarily associated with net operating loss carryforwards and built-in losses under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. As of June 30, 2009, the Company had approximately $1.23 billion of net deferred tax assets. The Company intends to submit the Section 382 Rights Agreement for stockholder approval at its next annual meeting of stockholders.
FORT WORTH, TEXAS
D.R. Horton, Inc.'s ability to use its tax benefits would be substantially limited by Section 382 if a 50% "ownership change" occurred. A company experiences a 50% "ownership change" for tax purposes if the percentage of stock owned by its 5% stockholders (as defined for tax purposes) increases by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. The Section 382 Rights Agreement is intended to reduce the likelihood of an unintended 50% "ownership change" occurring through the buying and selling of the Company's common stock.
Under the terms of the Section 382 Rights Agreement, D.R. Horton, Inc. will distribute to its stockholders a non-taxable dividend distribution of one preferred stock purchase right for each share of the Company's common stock held as of the close of business on August 31, 2009. The Section 382 Rights Agreement is intended to act as a deterrent to any person acquiring beneficial ownership of 4.9% or more of the Company's outstanding common stock within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder (an "Acquiring Person")
 
without the approval of the Board. Stockholders who beneficially owned 4.9% or more of the Company's outstanding common stock as of the close of business on August 19, 2009 will not become an Acquiring Person so long as they do not acquire any additional shares of common stock at a time when they still beneficially own 4.9% or more of the Company's outstanding common stock. A person who becomes an Acquiring Person may be subject to significant dilution in their holdings. The Board may, in its sole discretion, exempt any person from being deemed an Acquiring Person for purposes of the Section 382 Rights Agreement.
The Company will file the Section 382 Rights Agreement in a Form 8-A with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
D.R. Horton, Inc., America's Builder, is one of the largest homebuilding companies in the United States, delivering more than 26,000 homes in its fiscal year ended September 30, 2008. Founded in 1978 in Fort Worth, Texas, D.R. Horton has operations in 76 markets in 27 states in the East, Midwest, Southeast, South Central, Southwest and West regions of the United States. The Company is engaged in the construction and sale of high quality homes with sales prices ranging from $90,000 to over $900,000. D.R. Horton also provides mortgage financing and title services for homebuyers through its mortgage and title subsidiaries.
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although D.R. Horton believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R. Horton on the date this release was issued. D.R. Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Factors that may cause the actual results to be materially different from the future results expressed by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: the continuing downturn in the homebuilding industry, including further deterioration in industry or broader economic conditions; the downturn in homebuilding and the disruptions in the credit markets, which could limit our ability to access capital and increase our costs of capital; the reduction in availability of mortgage financing and the increase in mortgage
 
interest rates; the limited success of our strategies in responding to adverse conditions in the industry; changes in general economic, real estate, construction and other business conditions; changes in the costs of owning a home; the effects of governmental regulations and environmental matters on our homebuilding operations; the effects of governmental regulations on our financial services operations; our substantial debt and our ability to comply with related debt covenants, restrictions and limitations; competitive conditions within our industry; our ability to effect any future growth strategies successfully; our ability to realize our deferred income tax asset; our net operating loss carryforwards could be substantially limited if we experienced an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code; and the uncertainties inherent in home warranty and construction defect claims matters. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R. Horton's annual report on Form 10-K and most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q, which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


