FILE:DHI/DHI-8K-20101006172142.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
(e) Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On September 30, 2010, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of D.R. Horton, Inc. adopted and approved a form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement and form of Stock Award Agreement for awards to executive officers and other key employees of the Company pursuant to its 2006 Stock Incentive Plan . Under the form of RSU Agreement, the Compensation Committee may award performance or service (time) based restricted stock units subject to the terms and conditions of the RSU Agreement and the 2006 Plan. Under the form of Stock Award Agreement, the Compensation Committee may award shares of common stock of the Company in payment or settlement of compensation already earned (i.e., payment of common stock in lieu cash).
(the "Company")
("RSU Agreement")
("Stock Award Agreement")
(the "2006 Plan")
On September 30, 2010, the Compensation Committee approved and granted an award of performance restricted stock units pursuant to the 2006 Plan to the following executive officers and in the following amounts:
("Performance RSUs")
The Performance RSUs relate to a two-year performance period beginning on October 1, 2010 and ending on September 30, 2012. The Performance RSU will vest if four performance goals are satisfied. The four performance goals relate to relative total shareholder return relative Return on Investment ("ROI"), relative selling, general and administrative expense containment and relative gross profit . Each Performance Goal is weighted twenty-five percent (25%) of the target number of 100,000 Performance RSUs. The target number of Performance RSUs may be increased to a maximum number of 200,000 upon maximum achievement of each of the four Performance Goals and decreased to a minimum number of zero Performance RSUs upon minimum achievement of each of the four Performance Goals. Each Performance RSU represents the contingent right to receive one share of the Company's common stock if vesting is satisfied. The Performance RSUs granted to Mr. Horton and Mr. Tomnitz have no rights to dividends or voting.
("TSR"),
("SG&A")
("GP") (collectively, the "Performance Goals")
Vesting of the TSR Performance Goal component will be determined after the Performance Period based on a comparison of the Company's TSR to the S&P 500 Index's TSR as computed by Standard and Poor's using their TSR methodology. The vesting of the ROI, SG&A and GP Performance Goal components will be determined after the Performance Period based on the
 
relative ranking of the Company's performance on each Performance Goal to each peer group company's performance on each Performance Goal. Any portion of the Performance RSUs that do not vest due to inadequate relative performance will be forfeited.
The above summary is qualified by reference to the text of the RSU Agreement and SA Agreement, which are filed herewith as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
FOR GOOD AND VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, D. R. Horton, Inc. , hereby grants to Grantee named below the number of performance restricted stock units specified below , upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Grant Notice, the Company's 2006 Stock Incentive Plan and the Standard Terms and Conditions adopted pursuant to such Plan and provided to Grantee, each as amended from time to time. Each performance restricted stock unit subject to this Award represents the right to receive one share of the Company's Common Shares, subject to the conditions set forth in this Grant Notice, the Plan and the Standard Terms and Conditions. This Award is granted pursuant to the Plan and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by the Standard Terms and Conditions.
(the "Company")
(the "Award" or the "Performance RSUs")
(the "Plan")
(the "Standard Terms and Conditions")
By accepting this Grant Notice, Grantee acknowledges that he or she has received and read, and agrees that this Award shall be subject to, the terms of this Grant Notice, the Plan and the Standard Terms and Conditions.
 
These Standard Terms and Conditions apply to any Award of performance restricted stock units granted to an employee of the Company under the Company's 2006 Stock Incentive Plan , on ____________, which are evidenced by a Grant Notice or an action of the Committee that specifically refers to these Standard Terms and Conditions.
(the "Plan")
 
The final number of Performance RSUs under this TSR Performance Goal shall be determined using the above percentages and rankings. Performance and percentages that fall between those listed in the table above shall be ranked using linear interpolation. Under the TSR component of the Performance Goals and after giving effect to the 25% weighting to the total Target Award, the number of Performance RSUs that can be earned is as follows: 50,000 Maximum, 25,000 Target and 2,500 Threshold.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If after the Performance Period the S&P 500 Index had a Total Shareholder Return of 10% and DHI had a Total Shareholder Return of 10% then the ranking payout on this TSR Performance Goal would be equal to the Target RSUs of 25,000.
Example 1:
If after the Performance Period the S&P 500 Index had a Total Shareholder Return of 10% and DHI had a Total Shareholder Return of 5% then the ranking payout on this TSR Performance Goal would equal to 12,500 RSUs (25,000 minus 12,500).
Example 2:
If after the Performance Period the S&P 500 Index had a Total Shareholder Return of 10% and DHI had a Total Shareholder Return of 14% then the ranking payout on this TSR Performance Goal would equal to 35,000 RSUs (25,000 plus 10,000).
Example 3:
If after the Performance Period the S&P 500 Index had a Total Shareholder Return of 10% and DHI had a Total Shareholder Return of 20% then the ranking payout on this TSR Performance Goal would equal to 50,000 RSUs (25,000 plus 25,000).
Example 4:
If after the Performance Period the S&P 500 Index had a Total Shareholder Return of -5% and DHI had a Total Shareholder Return of -5% then the ranking payout on this TSR Performance Goal would equal to 25,000 RSUs (equal to Target).
Example 5:
If after the Performance Period the S&P 500 Index had a Total Shareholder Return of -4% and DHI had a Total Shareholder Return of -6% then the ranking payout on this TSR Performance Goal would equal to 20,000 RSUs (25,000 minus 5,000).
Example 6:
If after the Performance Period the S&P 500 Index had a Total Shareholder Return of -1% and DHI had a Total Shareholder Return of 0% (flat) then the ranking payout on this TSR Performance Goal would equal to 27,500 RSUs (25,000 plus 2,500).
Example 7:
If after the Performance Period the S&P 500 Index had a Total Shareholder Return of -1% and DHI had a Total Shareholder Return of 1% then the ranking payout on this TSR Performance Goal would equal to 30,000 RSUs (25,000 plus 5,000).
Example 8:
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
          This Stock Award Agreement (this "Agreement") is made and entered into as of _________________ (the "Effective Date") by and between D.R. Horton, Inc. (the "Company"), and _________________ (the "Participant").
          , the Participant is an employee or officer of the Company or any Subsidiary thereof;
WHEREAS
          , the Company has established the D.R. Horton, Inc 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), whereby the Company may issue shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Common Stock"), to certain of the employees and officers of the Company and any Subsidiary thereof. Capitalized terms used herein but not otherwise defined shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan;
WHEREAS
          , in order to attract, motivate and retain the services of the Participant, the Company is willing to issue shares of Common Stock to the Participant on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS
          , Plan Section 8(c) authorizes the Company to grant Shares without any performance criteria or vesting provisions if such Shares are issued in payment or settlement of compensation that has already been earned by the Participant; and
WHEREAS
          , the Shares contemplated for grant hereunder are issued in payment or settlement of compensation that the Participant has already earned.
WHEREAS
          , the Company, acting through the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, hereby agrees to issue to the Participant certain Shares of Common Stock, and the Participant hereby accepts such Shares, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.
NOW, THEREFORE
          The shares of Common Stock issuable to the Participant pursuant to this Agreement will be issued pursuant to the authority granted under the Plan and are subject to all the terms and conditions of the Plan, as the same may be amended or otherwise modified from time to time. The interpretation and construction of this Agreement by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, which has been designated by the Board to administer the Plan (the "Administrator") and such rules and regulations as may be adopted by the Administrator for the purpose of administering the Plan, shall be final and binding upon the Participant. The Company shall, upon written request therefor, send a copy of the Plan, in its then current form, to the Participant.
          Pursuant to the terms of the Plan, ________________ shares of Common Stock (the "Shares") are hereby issued to the Participant. Such Shares are fully vested and nonforfeitable. They are fully paid and nonassessable, and may be issued in book entry form or by physical delivery, at the Participant's election.
 
          By the execution of this Agreement, the Participant agrees to pay to the Company the amount of federal, state and local taxes that the Company is required to withhold and remit to the taxing authorities applicable to the Participant as a result of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (collectively, "Taxes"). The Participant shall pay to the Company an amount equal to the Taxes the Company is required to withhold and remit as calculated by the Company in accordance with the rules and regulations of applicable taxing authorities governing the calculation of such withholding. If the Participant fails or refuses to make such payment to the Company on its due date, the Participant hereby authorizes the Company, in addition to any of its other remedies, to withhold from any other compensation or payments due by the Company to the Participant an amount sufficient to pay such withholding plus interest as hereafter provided until such withholding and interest is paid in full. Pursuant to Section 16 of the Plan, unless the Participant chooses to satisfy in cash the Taxes the Company is required to withhold as set forth above, by execution of this Agreement the Participant instructs and authorizes the Company to withhold on the Participant's behalf the number of shares of Common Stock from those Shares issuable to the Participant at the time of grant as the Company determines to be sufficient to satisfy the Taxes the Company is required to withhold.
          The Award is subject to the condition that if the listing, registration or qualification of the Shares subject to the Award upon any securities exchange or under any law, or the consent or approval of any governmental body, or the taking of any other action is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the delivery of such Shares, the Shares subject to the Award shall not be delivered, in whole or in part, unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained, free of any conditions not acceptable to the Company. The Company agrees to use reasonable efforts to effect or obtain any such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval.
          5.1 . Any notice required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be deemed sufficiently given if sent by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the addressee at his, her or its address last provided the sender in writing by the addressee for purposes of receiving notices hereunder or, unless or until such address shall be so furnished, to the address indicated opposite his, her or its signature to this Agreement. Each party may also provide notice by sending the other party a facsimile at a number provided by such other party.
Notice
          5.2 . This Agreement is not an employment agreement and shall not confer on the Participant any right to be retained as an Employee or Director of the Company or any Subsidiary, Parent, successor or affiliate of the Company.
No Right to Employment
          5.3 . The Company and the Participant (by his or her acceptance of this Agreement) agree that each will be subject to and bound by all of the terms and conditions of the Plan, a copy of which is attached hereto and made a part hereof. In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern.
Plan Controls
          5.4 . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, and all questions relating to the validity and performance hereof and remedies hereunder shall be determined in accordance with such law.
Governing Law
 
          5.5 . No waiver or modification of this Agreement shall be binding unless it is in writing signed by the parties hereto. No waiver by a party of a breach hereof by the other party shall be deemed to constitute a waiver of a future breach, whether of a similar or dissimilar nature, except to the extent specifically provided in any written waiver under this Section 5.5.
Modification and No Waiver of Breach
          5.6 . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
          5.7 . The captions used herein are for ease of reference only and shall not define or limit the provisions hereof.
Captions
          5.8 . This Agreement together with any agreement, plans or other documents implementing the terms of this Agreement constitute the entire agreement between the parties hereto relating to the matters encompassed hereby and supersede any prior oral or written agreements.
Entire Agreement
          , this Agreement has been duly executed as of the day and year first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
Address for Notices:
     D.R. Horton, Inc.
     301 Commerce Street, Suite 500
     Fort Worth, TX 76102
     Attention: General Counsel


