FILE:DHI/DHI-8K-20110309171643.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Effective March 4, 2011, DHI Mortgage Company, Ltd., a Texas limited partnership and a subsidiary of D.R. Horton, Inc., and U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking association, as a Buyer, as Administrative Agent, and as Syndication Agent ("") entered into a Fifth Amendment to the Master Repurchase Agreement dated March 27, 2008 as amended by the First Amendment to the Master Repurchase Agreement, dated March 5, 2009, the Second Amendment to the Master Repurchase Agreement dated September 23, 2009, the Third Amendment to the Master Repurchase Agreement dated March 4, 2010, and the Fourth Amendment to the Master Repurchase Agreement dated July 30, 2010
("DHI Mortgage" or the "Seller") 
U.S. Bank
(the "Master Repurchase Agreement"),
(the Master Repurchase Agreement, as amended, the "Repurchase Facility").
The primary purpose of the Repurchase Facility is to provide financing and liquidity to DHI Mortgage by facilitating purchase transactions in which DHI Mortgage transfers eligible loans to buyers against the transfer of funds by buyers (thereby becoming purchased loans). The purchase transactions are based on the terms and conditions in the Repurchase Facility and the ancillary or operative agreements attached thereto or referred to thereinThe Buyer's Committed Sum under the Repurchase Facility is $100 million. Amounts outstanding under the Repurchase Facility are not guaranteed by D.R. Horton, Inc. or any of its subsidiaries that guarantee their homebuilding debt.
.
The Fifth Amendment renewed the term of the Repurchase Facility to the earlier of (i) March 4, 2012, or (ii) the date when the Buyers' commitments are terminated pursuant to the Repurchase Facility, by order of any Governmental Authority or by operation of law, and amended certain definitional, operational, and covenant provisions of the Repurchase Facility as set forth in the Fifth Amendment. In addition, the Fifth Amendment provides that the Seller may make distributions, provided the distribution does not cause a default or event of default, provides that the Seller consolidated tangible net worth shall not be less than $75 million and provides that the Seller's liquidity shall at all times be no less than $45 million. The Fifth Amendment is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
The information set forth above under Item 1.01. "Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
Execution Version
THIS FIFTH AMENDMENT TO MASTER REPURCHASE AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of March 4, 2011, is by and between DHI Mortgage Company, Ltd., a Texas limited partnership (the ""), and U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking association, as a Buyer, as Administrative Agent, and as Syndication Agent ("").
Amendment
Seller
U.S. Bank
A. The Seller and U.S. Bank are parties to that certain Master Repurchase Agreement, dated as of March 27, 2008, as amended by a First Amendment to Master Repurchase Agreement, dated as of March 5, 2009, a Second Amendment to Master Repurchase Agreement, dated as of September 23, 2009, a Third Amendment to Master Repurchase Agreement, dated as of March 4, 2010, and a Fourth Amendment to Master Repurchase Agreement, dated as of July 30, 2010 (as amended, the "").
Repurchase Agreement
B. The Seller and U.S. Bank desire to amend the Repurchase Agreement as provided herein.
In consideration of the premises herein and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Section 1. . Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined in this Amendment have the meanings specified in the Repurchase Agreement.
Definitions
Section 2. .
Amendments
2.1 . The definitions of "," "" and "" in Section 1.2 of the Repurchase Agreement are amended to read in their entireties as follows:
Definitions
LIBOR Margin
Purchased Loans
Termination Date
"" means 2.50%.
LIBOR Margin
"" means the earlier of (i) March 4, 2012, or (ii) the date (the "Commitments Cancellation Date") when the Buyers' Commitments are terminated pursuant to this Agreement, by order of any Governmental Authority or by operation of law.
Termination Date
means the eligible Loans sold by the Seller to the Buyers in Transactions, and any Eligible Loans substituted therefor in accordance with Section 11. The term "Purchased Loans" with respect to any Transaction at any time shall also include Additional Purchased Loans delivered pursuant to Section 6.1. For clarity, "Purchased Loans" shall not mean or include loans repurchased by Seller pursuant to Section 6.1 or otherwise.
"Purchased Loans"
 
2.2 . Section 3.4(c) of the Master Repurchase Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Purchase Price Decrease
(c) . The Seller may at any time and from time to time, request a Purchase Price Decrease by notice to the Administrative Agent no less than one (1) Business Day prior to the date that the Seller intends to effectuate such Purchase Price Decrease, specifying the date of the Purchase Price Decrease (the ""). The Purchase Price Decrease amount shall be due and payable in immediately available funds on the Purchase Price Decrease date specified therein. Each Purchase Price Decrease must be in an amount not less than $1,000,000. No Purchased Loans shall be, or be deemed to be, repurchased in connection with a Purchase Price Decrease, unless requested in writing pursuant to Section 6.1(b).
Purchase Price Decrease
Purchase Price Decrease Date
2.3 . Section 5.1 of the Repurchase Agreement is amended by deleting the proviso clause at the end thereof and by substituting in lieu thereof the following:
LIBOR Floor
2.4 Section 6.1(b) of the Repurchase Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
 
2.5 . Section 17.2(e) of the Repurchase Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety and a new Section 17.2(f) is hereby added to the Repurchase Agreement, as follows:
Additional Warehouse Facility
(e) GAAP Indebtedness owing to Parent or an Affiliate of Parent under a mortgage warehousing facility, mortgage repurchase facility, or off-balance sheet indebtedness under another arrangement to finance residential mortgage loans, so long as (i) such indebtedness is secured only by the mortgage loans financed under such facility and (ii) U.S. Bank as custodian holds the mortgage loan files for all mortgage loans pledged or sold under such facility; and
(f) With the prior written consent of the Required Buyers (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned upon fees), GAAP Indebtedness under a mortgage warehousing facility, mortgage repurchase facility, or off-balance sheet indebtedness under another arrangement to finance residential mortgage loans, other than those described in subsections (c), (d) and (e) of this Section 17.2, that the Buyers are given a right of first refusal regarding only similarly structured syndicated mortgage warehousing facilities or mortgage repurchase facilities. Buyers shall have a right of first refusal ("") regarding only new, similarly structured mortgage warehousing facilities or mortgage repurchase facilities (each a ""). In the event Seller elects to enter into Financing Facility, Seller shall provide to Buyers the material terms of the proposed Finance Facility by delivery to Buyers of a term sheet substantially in the form of Term Sheet attached hereto as Exhibit G (""). Within 15 days following Buyers' receipt of the ROF Term Sheet, Buyers shall notify Seller in writing whether Buyers elect to exercise Buyers' ROF. If within the 15-day period Buyers (i) fail to notify Sellers in writing of Buyer's election, or (ii) Buyers notify Seller in writing that Buyers decline to exercise Buyers' ROF, then Seller shall have the right to enter into a Financing Facility substantially in accordance with the terms of the ROF Term Sheet. If within the 15-day period Buyers notify Seller in writing that Buyers elect to exercise Buyers' ROF, then Buyers and Seller shall commence to complete the Financing Facility in a prompt and reasonable manner.
provided
Buyers' ROF
Finance Facility
ROF Term Sheet
2.6 . Section 17.11 of the Repurchase Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Distributions
17.11 . The Seller shall make no payment of dividends or distributions to any of its partners if either before or after giving effect thereto a Default or an Event of Default exists or shall be caused thereby. For the avoidance of doubt, Seller's exercise of its right under this Section 17.11 shall not be or be deemed to be a Default or an Event of Default under Section 17.4 or Section 17.7 hereof.
Distributions
2.7 . Sections 17.12 and 17.15 of the Repurchase Agreement are amended and restated in their entireties as follows:
Financial Covenants
17.12 . At all times, the Seller's Consolidated Tangible Net Worth shall not be less than $75,000,000.
Tangible Net Worth
17.15 . Seller's Liquidity shall at all times be no less than $45,000,000.
Liquidity
 
2.8 . Schedule EL to the Repurchase Agreement is amended by amending and restating paragraph (8) thereof and adding a new paragraph (23) thereto as follows:
Eligibility Requirements for Jumbo Loans
(8) In the case of a Jumbo Mortgage Loan, (i) has a loan-to-value ratio greater than 80% (provided that the loan-to-value ratio may be greater than 80% but not greater than 90%, so long as the portion of the Mortgage Loan principal in excess of 80% of the value of the Mortgaged Premises is covered by mortgage insurance acceptable to Buyer), (ii) is not fully documented as to income or asset values, (iii) is not eligible for purchase by two Approved Investors with short-term unsecured obligations rated not lower than A-1/P-1, or (iv) has not been prior approved for purchase by an Approved Investor with short-term unsecured obligations rated not lower than A-1/P-1.
(23) That is not covered by an Investor Commitment or Hedge Agreement.
2.9 . Exhibit C to the Repurchase Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety to read as set forth on .
Form of Compliance Certificate
Exhibit A
2.10 . Schedule AI to the Repurchase Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety to read as set forth on .
Approved Investors
Exhibit B
2.11 . Schedule AR to the Repurchase Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety to read as set forth on .
Authorized Representatives
Exhibit C
2.12 . Schedule BC to the Repurchase Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety to read as set forth on .
Committed Sum
Exhibit D
2.13 . A new Exhibit G is hereby added to the Repurchase Agreement, as set forth on hereto.
ROF Term Sheet
Exhibit E
2.14 . Effective as of the date of this Amendment, U.S. Bank will no longer be increasing its Committed Sum on the first seven and last five Business Days of the Seller's fiscal quarters. Accordingly, from and after March 1, 2011, Seller shall not be required to pay the Supplemental Facility Fee set forth in the Amended and Restated Agency Fee Letter dated as of March 5, 2009, by and between Seller and U.S. Bank (the "Fee Letter"). All other terms and conditions of the Fee Letter remain in full force and effect and are not modified hereby.
Supplemental Facility Fee
Section 3. . This Amendment shall become effective as of the date first above written upon delivery by the Seller of, and compliance by the Seller with, the following:
Conditions Precedent
3.1 This Amendment duly executed by the Seller and U.S. Bank.
3.2 Original resolutions of the Seller's general partner's board of directors, certified as of the date of this Amendment by the Seller's general partner's corporate secretary, assistant secretary, or other authorized officer, authorizing the execution, delivery, and performance by the Seller of this Amendment and all other documents and instruments to be delivered by the Seller pursuant to this Amendment (the "").
Amendment Documents
 
3.3 A certificate of the Seller's general partner's corporate secretary, assistant secretary, or other authorized officer as to (i) the incumbency of the Seller's officers executing this Agreement and all other Amendment Documents executed or to be executed by or on behalf of the Seller and (ii) the authenticity of such officers' signatures, specimens of which shall be included in such certificate or set forth on an exhibit attached to it (U.S. Bank shall be entitled to rely on that certificate until the Seller has furnished a new certificate to U.S. Bank).
3.4 Such other documents as U.S. Bank may reasonably request.
Section 4.
Miscellaneous.
4.1 . The terms and provisions set forth in this Amendment shall modify and supersede all terms and provisions set forth in the Repurchase Agreement and the other Repurchase Documents that are inconsistent with this Amendment, and the terms and provisions of the Repurchase Agreement and each other Repurchase Document are ratified and confirmed and shall continue in full force and effect.
Ratifications
4.2 . The Seller hereby represents and warrants that the representations and warranties set forth in Section 15 of the Repurchase Agreement are true and correct in all material respects with the same force and effect on and as of the date hereof as though made as of the date hereof.
Seller Representations and Warranties
4.3 . The representations and warranties made by the Seller in this Amendment shall survive the execution and delivery of this Amendment.
Survival
4.4 . Each of the Repurchase Documents, including the Repurchase Agreement and any and all other agreements, documents, or instruments now or hereafter executed and delivered pursuant to the terms hereof or pursuant to the terms of the Repurchase Agreement as amended hereby, is hereby amended so that any reference in such Repurchase Document to the Repurchase Agreement shall refer to the Repurchase Agreement as amended and modified hereby.
Reference to Repurchase Agreement
4.5 . This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York as applicable to the Repurchase Agreement.
Applicable Law
4.6 . This Amendment is binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the Seller, U.S. Bank, and their respective successors and assigns, except that the Seller may not assign or transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without U.S. Bank's prior written consent.
Successors and Assigns
4.7 . This Amendment may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
4.8 . The headings, captions, and arrangements used in this Amendment are for convenience only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Amendment.
Headings
4.9 . THIS AMENDMENT AND THE OTHER REPURCHASE DOCUMENTS REPRESENT THE FINAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES THERETO AND MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS, OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OF THE PARTIES. THERE ARE NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS AMONG THE PARTIES.
ENTIRE AGREEMENT
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have caused this Fifth Amendment to Master Repurchase Agreement to be executed as of the date first set forth above.
 
ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT: U.S. Bank National Association
SELLER: DHI MORTGAGE COMPANY, LTD.
SUBJECT PERIOD: ended , 20 DATE: , 20
                    
                    
     
                    
     
This certificate is delivered to the Administrative Agent and the Buyers under the Master Repurchase Agreement dated as of March 27, 2008 (as supplemented, amended or restated from time to time, the ""), among the Seller, the Administrative Agent and the Buyers from time to time party thereto. Unless they are otherwise defined in this request, terms defined in the Current Repurchase Agreement have the same meanings here as there.
Current Repurchase Agreement
The undersigned officer of the Seller certifies to the Administrative Agent that on the date of this certificate:
1. The undersigned is an incumbent officer of the Seller, holding the title stated below his or her signature below.
2. The Seller's Financial Statements that are attached to this certificate were prepared in accordance with GAAP and present fairly the Seller's financial condition and results of operations as of for that month (the "") and for the year to that date (except that interim (i.e., other than annual) Financial Statements exclude notes to Financial Statements and statements of changes to stockholders' equity and are subject to year-end adjustments).
                    
Subject Period
3. The undersigned officer of the Seller supervised a review of the Seller's activities during the Subject Period in respect of the following matters and has determined the following:
 
 
1. Describe changes to representations and warranties, if any (clause 3(a) of attached Officer's Certificate); if none, so state.
2. Describe deviations from compliance with obligations under the Repurchase Documents (clause 3(c) of attached Officer's Certificate); if none, so state.
3. Describe Defaults or Events of Default, if (clause 3(d) of attached Officer's Certificate); if none, so state.
4. Seller's HUD Compare Ratio as of the last day of the Subject Period was ________% (clause 3(e) of attached Officer's Certificate).
5. Calculate compliance with covenants in Sections 17.12 through 17.15 of the Current Repurchase Agreement (clause 3(f) of attached Officer's Certificate):
(a) The Seller's Tangible Net Worth as of _________________ is $__________ (the minimum under Section 17.12 is $75,000,000.)
Section 17.12.
(b) The ratio of Seller's GAAP Indebtedness and Contingent Indebtedness to Tangible Net Worth of the Seller on a consolidated basis with its Restricted Subsidiaries, measured monthly is ______________ to 1.0 (the maximum ratio under Section 17.13 is 8.0:1.0.)
Section 17.13.
(c) [Reserved]
Section 17.14.
 
(d) . The Seller's liquidity (unrestricted cash, Cash Equivalents and unused portion of the Maximum Aggregate Commitments) for the month ended ______________, 20_____ was $___________ (the minimum under Section 17.14 is $45,000,000).
Section 17.15
6. For the Subject Period, (i) describe and give details regarding actual repurchase, make whole and indemnity payments made by Seller to any Person, and (ii) provide a summary of notices received by the Seller requesting or demanding that the Seller repurchase (or pay indemnity or other compensation in respect of) Mortgage Loans previously sold or otherwise disposed of by the Seller to any Investor or other Person pursuant to any express or implied repurchase or indemnity obligation as per Section 16.5. (Attach schedule or explanation.)
 
(List Purchased Loans on which unscheduled principal payment, prepayment or reduction of more than one regularly scheduled principal and interest installment payment was received since last monthly report and resulting new Principal Balance.)
 
 
PERSONNEL AUTHORIZED TO SIGN (A) CORPORATE ASSIGNMENTS, (B) INSTRUMENTS, (C) COLLATERAL CERTIFICATES, REPORTS, AND DIRECTIONS AS TO THE SHIPMENT OF COLLATERAL TO INVESTORS, OR (D) OTHER DOCUMENTS IN CONNECTION WITH THE PURCHASED LOANS UNDER THE MASTER REPURCHASE AGREEMENT:
PERSONNEL AUTHORIZED TO PROVIDE TELEPHONIC NOTICE TO THE AGENT REQUESTING TRANSACTIONS AND REPURCHASES UNDER THE MASTER REPURCHASE AGREEMENT AND PERSONNEL AUTHORIZED TO SIGN AND SUBMIT WRITTEN CONFIRMATION OF PURCHASE TRANSACTIONS AND RELATED REPURCHASES AND PURCHASE PRICE DECREASES UNDER THE MASTER REPURCHASE AGREEMENT:
 
 


