FILE:DHI/DHI-8K-20111201172440.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective November 29, 2011, DHI Mortgage Company, Ltd., a Texas limited partnership and a subsidiary of D.R. Horton, Inc., and U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking association, as a Buyer, as Administrative Agent, and as Syndication Agent entered into a Seventh Amendment to the Master Repurchase Agreement dated March 27, 2008 as amended by, the First Amendment to the Master Repurchase Agreement, dated March 5, 2009, the Second Amendment to the Master Repurchase Agreement dated September 23, 2009, the Third Amendment to the Master Repurchase Agreement dated March 4, 2010, the Fourth Amendment to the Master Repurchase Agreement dated July 30, 2010, the Fifth Amendment to the Master Repurchase Agreement dated March 4, 2011 and the Sixth Amendment to the Master Repurchase Agreement dated June 29, 2011
("DHI Mortgage" or the "Seller"),
("U.S. Bank" or "Buyer")
(the "Master Repurchase Agreement"),
(the Master Repurchase Agreement, as amended, the "Repurchase Facility").
The primary purpose of the Repurchase Facility is to provide financing and liquidity to DHI Mortgage by facilitating purchase transactions in which DHI Mortgage transfers eligible loans to buyers against the transfer of funds by buyers (thereby becoming purchased loans). The purchase transactions are based on the terms and conditions in the Repurchase Facility and the ancillary or operative agreements attached thereto or referred to therein Amounts outstanding under the Repurchase Facility are not guaranteed by D.R. Horton, Inc. or any of its subsidiaries that guarantee their homebuilding debt.
.
The Seventh Amendment provides that the capacity of the facility be increased from $100,000,000 to $180,000,000. Additionally, advances under the amended Repurchase Facility will carry a Pricing Rate based on the Libor Rate plus the Libor Margin, which combined will not be less than 2.75%. Further, the Seventh Amendment also provides for a commitment fee of 0.25% per annum on the Unused Portion for any fiscal quarter that is greater than sixty percent of the average daily amount of the Maximum Aggregate Commitment.
("Committed Sum")
The Repurchase Facility has a term of the earlier of (i) March 4, 2012, or (ii) the date when the Buyers' Commitments are terminated pursuant to the Repurchase Facility, by order of any Governmental Authority or by operation of law. The Seventh Amendment is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
 
The information set forth above under Item 1.01. "Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
THIS SEVENTH AMENDMENT TO MASTER REPURCHASE AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of November 29, 2011, is by and between DHI Mortgage Company, Ltd., a Texas limited partnership (the ""), and U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking association, as a Buyer, as Administrative Agent, and as Syndication Agent ("").
Amendment
Seller
U.S. Bank
A. The Seller and U.S. Bank are parties to that certain Master Repurchase Agreement, dated as of March 27, 2008, as amended by a First Amendment to Master Repurchase Agreement, dated as of March 5, 2009, a Second Amendment to Master Repurchase Agreement, dated as of September 23, 2009, a Third Amendment to Master Repurchase Agreement, dated as of March 4, 2010, a Fourth Amendment to Master Repurchase Agreement, dated as of July 30, 2010, a Fifth Amendment to Master Repurchase Agreement dated as of March 4, 2011, and a Sixth Amendment to Master Repurchase Agreement dated as of June 29, 2011 (as amended, the "").
Repurchase Agreement
B. The Seller and U.S. Bank desire to amend the Repurchase Agreement as provided herein.
In consideration of the premises herein and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Section 1. . Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined in this Amendment have the meanings specified in the Repurchase Agreement.
Definitions
Section 2. . The Repurchase Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
Amendments
2.1 . Section 1.2 of the Repurchase Agreement is amended as follows:
Definitions
(a) The definition of "LIBOR Rate" is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"" means, on any date of determination, the average offered rate for deposits in United States dollars having a maturity of one month (rounded upward, if necessary, to the nearest 1/16 of 1%) for delivery of such deposits on such date which appears on the Reuters Screen, LIBOR01 Page, or any successor thereto as of 11:00 a.m., London time (or such other time as of which such rate appears) on such date of determination, reset each LIBOR Business Day, adjusted for any reserve requirement and any subsequent costs arising from a change in government regulation, or the rate for such deposits determined by the
LIBOR Rate
Administrative Agent at such time based on such other published service of general application as shall be selected by the Administrative Agent for such purpose; provided, that in lieu of determining the rate in the foregoing manner, the Administrative Agent may determine the rate based on rates at which United States dollar deposits having a maturity of one month are offered to the Administrative Agent in the interbank LIBOR market at such time for delivery in immediately available funds on such date of determination in an amount equal to $1,000,000 (rounded upward, if necessary, to the nearest 1/16 of 1%).
(b) The following new definitions are added:
"Commitment Fee" is defined in .
Section 9.4
"" means, with respect to any applicable fiscal quarter of Seller, the amount, if any, by which (a) the Maximum Aggregate Commitment in effect during such period (if the Maximum Aggregate Commitment is increased or decreased during such period, then, for purposes of this calculation, the Maximum Aggregate Commitment shall be the average daily amount of the Maximum Aggregate Commitment during such period) exceeds (b) the average daily balance of the sum of the aggregate outstanding Purchase Prices in all Open Transactions during such period.
Unused Portion
2.2 . Section 5.1 of the Repurchase Agreement is amended by deleting the proviso clause at the end thereof and by substituting in lieu thereof the following:
LIBOR Floor
; provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Pricing Rate will not in any event be less than 2.75%.
2.3 . The following new Section 9.4 is added to the Repurchase Agreement:
Commitment Fee
9.4. . If the Unused Portion for any fiscal quarter of Seller is greater than sixty percent of the average daily amount of the Maximum Aggregate Commitment during such fiscal quarter, the Seller shall pay to the Administrative Agent (for Pro Rata distribution to the Buyers) a commitment fee (the "") on such Unused Portion at a rate of 0.25% per annum, computed on the actual number of days in that quarter using a year of 360 days. The Commitment Fee shall be payable quarterly in arrears on the 9th calendar day after the end of each fiscal quarter of Seller, commencing with the quarter ending December 31, 2011, and on the Termination Date, if any fee is owing. The Commitment Fee is compensation to the Buyers for committing to make funds available for revolving purchases of Eligible Loans on the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, and is not compensation for the use or forbearance or detention of money. Each calculation by the Administrative Agent of the amount of the Commitment Fee shall be conclusive and binding absent manifest error.
Commitment Fee
Commitment Fee
 
2.4 . Schedule BC to the Repurchase Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety to read as set forth on .
Committed Sum
Exhibit A
Section 3. . This Amendment shall become effective as of the date first above written upon delivery by the Seller of, and compliance by the Seller with, the following:
Conditions Precedent
3.1 This Amendment duly executed by the Seller and U.S. Bank.
3.2 Original resolutions of the Seller's general partner's board of directors, certified as of the date of this Amendment by the Seller's general partner's corporate secretary, assistant secretary, or other authorized officer, authorizing the execution, delivery, and performance by the Seller of this Amendment and all other documents and instruments to be delivered by the Seller pursuant to this Amendment (the "").
Amendment Documents
3.3 A certificate of the Seller's general partner's corporate secretary, assistant secretary, or other authorized officer as to (i) the incumbency of the Seller's officers executing this Amendment and all other Amendment Documents executed or to be executed by or on behalf of the Seller and (ii) the authenticity of such officers' signatures, specimens of which shall be included in such certificate or set forth on an exhibit attached to it (U.S. Bank shall be entitled to rely on that certificate until the Seller has furnished a new certificate to U.S. Bank).
3.4 Such other documents as U.S. Bank may reasonably request.
Section 4. .
Miscellaneous
4.1 . The terms and provisions set forth in this Amendment shall modify and supersede all terms and provisions set forth in the Repurchase Agreement and the other Repurchase Documents that are inconsistent with this Amendment, and the terms and provisions of the Repurchase Agreement and each other Repurchase Document are ratified and confirmed and shall continue in full force and effect.
Ratifications
4.2 . The Seller hereby represents and warrants that the representations and warranties set forth in Section 15 of the Repurchase Agreement are true and correct in all material respects with the same force and effect on and as of the date hereof as though made as of the date hereof.
Seller Representations and Warranties
4.3 . The representations and warranties made by the Seller in this Amendment shall survive the execution and delivery of this Amendment.
Survival
4.4 . Each of the Repurchase Documents, including the Repurchase Agreement and any and all other agreements, documents, or instruments now or hereafter executed and delivered pursuant to the terms hereof or pursuant to the terms of the Repurchase Agreement as amended hereby, is hereby amended so that any reference in such Repurchase Document to the Repurchase Agreement shall refer to the Repurchase Agreement as amended and modified hereby.
Reference to Repurchase Agreement
 
4.5 . This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York as applicable to the Repurchase Agreement.
Applicable Law
4.6 . This Amendment is binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the Seller, U.S. Bank, and their respective successors and assigns, except that the Seller may not assign or transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without U.S. Bank's prior written consent.
Successors and Assigns
4.7 . This Amendment may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
4.8 . The headings, captions, and arrangements used in this Amendment are for convenience only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Amendment.
Headings
4.9 . THIS AMENDMENT AND THE OTHER REPURCHASE DOCUMENTS REPRESENT THE FINAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES THERETO AND MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS, OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OF THE PARTIES. THERE ARE NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS AMONG THE PARTIES.
ENTIRE AGREEMENT
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have caused this Seventh Amendment to Master Repurchase Agreement to be executed as of the date first set forth above.
 
 


