FILE:DHI/DHI-8K-20110126162341.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
(e)   
Adoption of Compensatory Plan
     On January 20, 2011, the stockholders of D.R. Horton, Inc. approved the Company's 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the ""). The Board of Directors of the Company approved the A&R 2006 Plan on December 6, 2010 and the A&R 2006 was submitted for approval by the Company's stockholders under proposal two in the Company's proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on January 20, 2011. The A&R 2006 Plan reflects changes made to the Company's 2006 Stock Incentive Plan The primary changes to the 2006 Plan, as reflected in the A&R 2006 Plan, relate to the following:
(the "Company")
A&R 2006 Plan
(the "2006 Plan").
(i) the addition of "gross profit or gross profit percentage," "income or pre-tax income percentage," "land, lot or inventory improvement," and "selling, general and administrative expense improvement or containment" as "qualifying performance criteria" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ;
(the "Code")
(ii) an increase of 250,000 shares (from 500,000 to 750,000) to the maximum number of shares subject to Awards, denominated in shares, that may be granted to any one participant during any calendar year;
(iii) an increase of 5,000 shares (from 10,000 to 15,000) to the maximum number of shares subject to Awards, denominated in shares, that may be granted to any one nonemployee director during any calendar year; and
(iv) certain other ministerial amendments.
     The A&R 2006 Plan is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02.
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
     On January 20, 2011, D.R. Horton, Inc. held its Annual Meeting of Stockholders At the Annual Meeting, stockholders considered: (1) the election of six director nominees named in the Company's proxy statement, (2) the approval of the Company's 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated, (3) the ratification of the appointment of PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLC as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal 2011, and (4) the approval of a stockholder proposal concerning greenhouse gas emissions. The Annual Meeting voting results of the four listed matters were as follows:
(the "Company")
(the "Annual Meeting").
 
Stockholders elected each of the following nominees as a director to hold office until the 2012 Annual Meeting and until his successor is duly elected and qualified based on the following votes.
(1).
Proposal One: Election of Directors
.
Stockholders approved the Company's 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated, based on the following votes.
(2).
Proposal Two: Approval of the Company's 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated
.
Stockholders approved the ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2011 based on the following votes.
(3).
Proposal Three: Ratify the Appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
.
 
Stockholders voted against the approval of the stockholder proposal concerning greenhouse gas emissions based on the following votes.
(4).
Proposal Four: Stockholder Proposal Concerning Greenhouse Gas Emissions
.
On proposals 2, 3 and 4, abstentions have the same effect as a vote against the proposal.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
The purpose of the D. R. Horton, Inc. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective as of December 6, 2010) (the ) is to advance the interests of D. R. Horton, Inc. (the ) by stimulating the efforts of employees, officers and, to the extent provided by Sections 5(e) and (f), non-employee directors and certain other service providers, in each case who are selected to be participants, by heightening the desire of such persons to continue in working toward and contributing to the success and progress of the Company. The Plan supersedes the Company's 1991 Stock Incentive Plan with respect to future awards, and provides for the grant of Incentive and Nonqualified Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units, any of which may be performance-based, and for Incentive Bonuses, which may be paid in cash or stock or a combination thereof, as determined by the Administrator.
"Plan"
"Company"
 
 
As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
 
(a)  means the Administrator of the Plan in accordance with Section 17.
"Administrator"
 
(b)  means an Incentive Stock Option, Nonqualified Stock Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit or Incentive Bonus granted to a Participant pursuant to the provisions of the Plan, any of which the Administrator may structure to qualify in whole or in part as a Performance Award.
"Award"
 
(c)  means a written agreement or other instrument as may be approved from time to time by the Administrator implementing the grant of each Award. An Agreement may be in the form of an agreement to be executed by both the Participant and the Company (or an authorized representative of the Company) or certificates, notices or similar instruments as approved by the Administrator.
"Award Agreement"
 
(d)  means the board of directors of the Company.
"Board"
 
(e)  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the rulings and regulations issues thereunder.
"Code"
 
(f)  means D. R. Horton, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
"Company"
 
(g)  means a bonus opportunity awarded under Section 9 pursuant to which a Participant may become entitled to receive an amount based on satisfaction of such performance criteria as are specified in the Award Agreement.
"Incentive Bonus"
 
(h)  means a stock option that is intended to qualify as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
"Incentive Stock Option"
 
(i)  means each person who is, or is elected to be, a member of the Board and who is not an employee of the Company or any Subsidiary.
"Nonemployee Director"
 
(j)  means a stock option that is not intended to qualify as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
"Nonqualified Stock Option"
 
(k)  means an Incentive Stock Option a Nonqualified Stock Option granted pursuant to Section 6.
"Option"
and/or
 
(l)  means any individual described in Section 3 to whom Awards have been granted from time to time by the Administrator and any authorized transferee of such individual.
"Participant"
 
(m)  means an Award, the grant, issuance, retention, vesting or settlement of which is subject to satisfaction of one or more Qualifying Performance Criteria established pursuant to Section 13.
"Performance Award"
 
(n)  means D. R. Horton, Inc. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (As Amended & Restated Effective as of December 6, 2010), as set forth herein and as amended from time to time.
"Plan"
 
(o)  means D. R. Horton, Inc. 1991 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated on February 21, 2002.
"Prior Plan"
 
(p)  has the meaning set forth in Section 13(b).
"Qualifying Performance Criteria"
 
(q)  means Shares granted pursuant to Section 8.
"Restricted Stock"
 
(r)  means an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 8 pursuant to which Shares or cash in lieu thereof may be issued in the future.
"Restricted Stock Unit"
 
(s)  means a consultant or advisor to the Company or any Subsidiary who (i) is a natural person, (ii) provides bona fide services to the Company or any Subsidiary, (iii) provides services other than in connection with the offer or sale of securities in a capital-raising transaction, and (iv) does not directly or indirectly promote or maintain a market for the Company's securities, in each case, within the meaning of the General Instructions to under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
"Service Provider"
Form S-8
 
(t)  means a share of the Company's common stock, par value $.01, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 12.
"Share"
 
(u)  means a right granted pursuant to Section 7 that entitles the Participant to receive, in cash or Shares or a combination thereof, as determined by the Administrator, value equal to or otherwise based on the excess of (i) the market price of a specified number of Shares at the time of exercise over (ii) the exercise price of the right, as established by the Administrator on the date of grant.
"Stock Appreciation Right"
 
(v)  means (i) any corporation (other than the Company) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Company where each of the corporations in the unbroken chain other than the last corporation owns stock possessing at least 50 percent or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in the chain, (ii) other than with respect to Incentive Stock Options, any limited liability company, limited partnership, general partnership or other entity, the majority of the equity or ownership interests in which are owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company, and (iii) if specifically determined by the Administrator in the context other than with respect to Incentive Stock Options, any entity in which the Company has a significant ownership interest or that is directly or indirectly controlled by the Company.
"Subsidiary"
 
(w)  means Awards granted or Shares issued by the Company in assumption of, or in substitution or exchange for, awards previously granted, or the right or obligation to make future awards, by a person or entity acquired by the Company or any Subsidiary or with which the Company or any Subsidiary merges or combines.
"Substitute Awards"
 
(x)  means ceasing to serve as a full-time employee of the Company and its Subsidiaries or, with respect to a Nonemployee Director or other Service Provider, ceasing to serve as such for the Company, except that with respect to all or any Awards held by a Participant (i) the Administrator may determine, subject to Section 6(d), that an approved leave of absence or approved employment on a less than full-time basis is not considered a "Termination of Employment," (ii) the Administrator may determine that a transition of employment to service with a partnership, joint venture or corporation not meeting the requirements of a Subsidiary in which the Company or a Subsidiary is a party is not considered a "Termination of Employment," (iii) service as a member of the Board shall constitute continued employment with respect to Awards granted to a Participant while he or she served
"Termination of Employment"
 
as an employee and (iv) service as an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary shall constitute continued employment with respect to Awards granted to a Participant while he or she served as a member of the Board. The Administrator shall determine whether any corporate transaction, such as a sale or spin-off of a division or subsidiary that employs a Participant, shall be deemed to result in a Termination of Employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries for purposes of any affected Participant's Options, and the Administrator's decision shall be final and binding. Unless determined otherwise by the Administrator, a Termination of Employment will be interpreted consistent with the definition of a "separation from service" under the Code Section 409A Regulations.
 
 
Any person who is a current or prospective officer or employee (including, without limitation, any director who is also an employee, in his or her capacity as such) of the Company or of any Subsidiary shall be eligible for selection by the Administrator for the grant of Awards hereunder. To the extent provided by Section 5(e), any Nonemployee Director shall be eligible for the grant of Awards hereunder as determined by the Administrator. In addition, to the extent provided by Section 5(f), any Service Provider shall be eligible for selection by the Administrator for the grant of Awards hereunder. Options intending to qualify as Incentive Stock Options may only be granted to employees of the Company or any Subsidiary within the meaning of Section 424(f) the Code, as selected by the Administrator.
 
 
This Plan was originally adopted by the Board on November 17, 2005, and became effective as of January 26, 2006 (the ) upon approval by the Company's stockholders. The restated Plan was adopted by the Board and became effective as of December 6, 2010, subject to the approval by the Company's stockholders. The Plan shall remain available for the grant of Awards until the tenth (10th) anniversary of the Original Effective Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Plan may be terminated at such earlier time as the Board may determine. Termination of the Plan will not affect the rights and obligations of the Participants and the Company arising under Awards theretofore granted and then in effect.
"Original Effective Date"
 
 
(a)   The aggregate number of Shares issuable pursuant to all Awards shall not exceed 28,000,000, plus (i) any Shares that were authorized for issuance under the Prior Plan that, as of January 26, 2006, remain available for issuance under the Prior Plan (not including any Shares that are subject to, as of January 26, 2006, outstanding awards under the Prior Plan or any Shares that prior to January 26, 2006 were issued pursuant to awards granted under the Prior Plan) and (ii) any Shares subject to outstanding awards under the Prior Plan as of January 26, 2006 that on or after such date cease for any reason to be subject to such awards (other than by reason of exercise or settlement of the awards to the extent they are exercised for or settled in vested and nonforfeitable shares); provided that any Shares granted under Options or Stock Appreciation Rights shall be counted against this limit on a basis and any Shares granted as Awards other than Options or Stock Appreciation Rights shall be counted against this limit as 1.75 Shares for every one Share subject to such Award. The aggregate number of Shares available for grant under this Plan and the number of Shares subject to outstanding Awards shall be subject to adjustment as provided in Section 12. The Shares issued pursuant to Awards granted under this Plan may be shares that are authorized and unissued or shares that were reacquired by the Company, including, without limitation, shares purchased in the open market.
Aggregate Limits.
one-for-one
 
(b)   For purposes of Section 5(a), the aggregate number of Shares issued under this Plan at any time shall equal only the number of Shares actually issued upon exercise or settlement of an Award. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Shares subject to an Award under the Plan may not again be made available for issuance under the Plan if such Shares are: (i) Shares that were subject to a stock-settled Stock Appreciation Right and were not issued upon the net settlement or net exercise of such Stock Appreciation Right, (ii) Shares used to pay the exercise price of a Stock Option, (iii) Shares delivered to or withheld by the Company to pay the withholding taxes related to a Stock Option or a Stock Appreciation Right, or (iv) Shares
Issuance of Shares.
 
repurchased on the open market with the proceeds of a Stock Option exercise. Shares subject to Awards that have been canceled, expired, forfeited or otherwise not issued under an Award and Shares subject to Awards settled in cash shall not count as Shares issued under this Plan; provided however, that any Shares that again become available for grant pursuant to this Section 5 shall be added back on a basis if such Shares were subject to Awards of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights or added back as one and three-quarters (1.75) Shares for all Shares granted as Awards other than Options or Stock Appreciation Rights.
one-for-one
 
(c)   Substitute Awards shall not reduce the Shares authorized for issuance under the Plan or authorized for grant to a Participant in any calendar year. In addition, in the event that a person or entity acquired by the Company or any Subsidiary, or with which the Company or any Subsidiary merges or combines, has shares available under a pre-existing plan approved by its stockholders and not adopted in contemplation of such acquisition, merger or combination, the shares available for grant pursuant to the terms of such pre-existing plan (as adjusted, to the extent appropriate, using the exchange ratio or other adjustment or valuation ratio or formula used in such acquisition, merger or combination to determine the consideration payable to the holders of common stock of the entities party to such transaction) may be used for Awards under the Plan and, notwithstanding any other provision hereof, shall not reduce the Shares authorized for issuance under the Plan; provided that Awards using such available shares shall not be made after the date awards or grants could have been made under the terms of the pre-existing plan, absent the acquisition, merger or combination, and shall only be made to individuals who were employees, directors or Service Providers of such acquired, merged or combined company before such acquisition, merger or combination.
Substitute Awards.
 
(d)   The aggregate number of Shares subject to Awards, denominated in Shares, granted under this Plan during any calendar year to any one Participant shall not exceed 750,000, which number shall be calculated and adjusted pursuant to Section 12 only to the extent that such calculation or adjustment will not affect the status of any Award intended to qualify as "performance based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code but which number shall not count any tandem SARs (as defined in Section 7). The aggregate number of Shares that may be issued pursuant to the exercise of Incentive Stock Options granted under this Plan shall not exceed 28,000,000, which number shall be calculated and adjusted pursuant to Section 12 only to the extent that such calculation or adjustment will not affect the status of any option intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option under Section 422 of the Code. The maximum amount payable pursuant to that portion of an Incentive Bonus, denominated in dollars, granted with respect any specified performance period to any Participant under this Plan that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the Company's consolidated pre-tax income for such performance.
Tax Code Limits.
 
(e)   The aggregate number of Shares subject to Awards granted under this Plan during any calendar year to any one Nonemployee Director shall not exceed 15,000, which limit shall not count any tandem SARs (as defined in Section 7).
Director Awards.
 
(f)   The aggregate number of Shares issued under this Plan pursuant to all Awards granted to Service Providers shall not exceed 300,000.
Awards to Service Providers.
 
(g)   From and after the Original Effective Date, no further grants or awards shall be made under the Prior Plan. Grants and awards made under the Prior Plan before the Original Effective Date, however, shall continue in effect in accordance with their terms.
Effect on Prior Plan.
 
 
(a)   Options may be granted at any time and from time to time prior to the termination of the Plan to Participants as determined by the Administrator. No Participant shall have any rights as a stockholder with respect to any Shares subject to Options hereunder until such Shares have been issued. Each Option shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement. Options granted pursuant to the Plan need not be identical but each Option must contain and be subject to the terms and conditions set forth below.
Option Awards.
 
(b)   The Administrator will establish the exercise price per Share under each Option, which, in no event will be less than the fair market value of the Shares on the date of grant; provided, however, that the
Price.
 
exercise price per Share with respect to an Option that is granted in connection with a merger or other acquisition as a substitute or replacement award for options held by optionees of the acquired entity may be less than 100% of the market price of the Shares on the date such Option is granted if such exercise price is based on a formula set forth in the terms of the options held by such optionees or in the terms of the agreement providing for such merger or other acquisition. The exercise price of any Option may be paid in Shares, cash or a combination thereof, as determined by the Administrator, including, without limitation, an irrevocable commitment by a broker to pay over such amount from a sale of the Shares issuable under an Option, the delivery of previously owned Shares and withholding of Shares deliverable upon exercise.
 
(c)   Other than in connection with a change in the Company's capitalization or other event or transaction described in Section 12, the terms of outstanding Awards may not be amended to (a) reduce the exercise price of outstanding Options or take any other action that is treated as a re-pricing under generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), or (b) at any time when the exercise price of an Option is above the market value of a Share, cancel, exchange, buyout or surrender outstanding Options in exchange for cash, other awards or Options or Stock Appreciation Rights with an exercise price that is less than the exercise price of the original Options, without stockholder approval.
No Repricing.
 
(d)   The date on which Options become exercisable shall be determined at the sole discretion of the Administrator and set forth in an Award Agreement. Unless provided otherwise in the applicable Award Agreement, to the extent that the Administrator determines that an approved leave of absence or employment on a less than full-time basis is not a Termination of Employment, the vesting period exercisability of an Option shall be adjusted by the Administrator during or to reflect the effects of any period during which the Participant is on an approved leave of absence or is employed on a less than full-time basis.
Provisions Applicable to Options.
and/or
 
(e)   The Administrator shall establish the term of each Option, which in no case shall exceed a period of ten (10) years from the date of grant. In addition, the Award Agreement evidencing the grant of each Option shall set forth the terms and conditions applicable to such Option upon a Participant's Termination of Employment.
Term of Options and Termination of Employment.
 
(f)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 6, in the case of the grant of an Option intending to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option: (i) if the Participant owns stock possessing more than 10 percent of the combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company (a "10% Shareholder"), the exercise price of such Option must be at least 110 percent of the fair market value of the Shares on the date of grant and the Option must expire within a period of not more than five (5) years from the date of grant, and (ii) Termination of Employment will occur when the person to whom an Award was granted ceases to be an employee (as determined in accordance with Section 3401(c) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder) of the Company and its Subsidiaries. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 6 to the contrary, options designated as Incentive Stock Options shall not be eligible for treatment under the Code as Incentive Stock Options (and will be deemed to be Nonqualified Stock Options) to the extent that either (a) the aggregate fair market value of Shares (determined as of the time of grant) with respect to which such Options are exercisable for the first time by the Participant during any calendar year (under all plans of the Company and any Subsidiary) exceeds $100,000, taking Options into account in the order in which they were granted, or (b) such Options otherwise remain exercisable but are not exercised within three (3) months of Termination of Employment (or such other period of time provided in Section 422 of the Code).
Incentive Stock Options.
 
 
Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted to Participants from time to time either in tandem with or as a component of other Awards granted under the Plan or not in conjunction with other Awards () and may, but need not, relate to a specific Option granted under Section 6. The provisions of Stock Appreciation Rights need not be the same with respect to each grant or each recipient. Any Stock Appreciation Right granted in tandem with an Award may be granted at the same time such Award is granted or at any time thereafter before exercise or expiration of such Award. All freestanding SARs shall
("tandem SARs")
"freestanding SARs"
 
be granted subject to the same terms and conditions applicable to Options as set forth in Section 6 (including, without limitation, no repricing) and all tandem SARs shall have the same exercise price, vesting, exercisability, forfeiture and termination provisions as the Award to which they relate. Subject to the provisions of Section 6 and the immediately preceding sentence, the Administrator may impose such other conditions or restrictions on any Stock Appreciation Right as it shall deem appropriate. Stock Appreciation Rights may be settled in Shares, cash or a combination thereof, as determined by the Administrator and set forth in the applicable Award Agreement. Other than in connection with a change in the Company's capitalization or other event or transaction described in Section 12, the terms of outstanding Awards may not be amended to (a) reduce the exercise price of outstanding Stock Appreciation Rights or take any other action that is treated as a re-pricing under GAAP, or (b) at any time when the exercise price of an SAR is above the market value of a Share, cancel, exchange, buyout or surrender outstanding Stock Appreciation Rights in exchange for cash, other awards or Options or Stock Appreciation Rights with an exercise price that is less than the exercise price of the original Stock Appreciation Rights, without stockholder approval.
 
 
(a)   Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units may be granted at any time and from time to time prior to the termination of the Plan to Participants as determined by the Administrator. Restricted Stock is an award or issuance of Shares the grant, issuance, retention, vesting transferability of which is subject during specified periods of time to such conditions (including, without limitation, continued employment or performance conditions) and terms as the Administrator deems appropriate. Restricted Stock Units are Awards denominated in units of Shares under which the issuance of Shares is subject to such conditions (including, without limitation, continued employment or performance conditions) and terms as the Administrator deems appropriate. Each grant of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement. Unless determined otherwise by the Administrator, each Restricted Stock Unit will be equal to one Share and will entitle a Participant to either the issuance of Shares or payment of an amount of cash determined with reference to the value of Shares. To the extent determined by the Administrator, Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units may be satisfied or settled in Shares, cash or a combination thereof. Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to the Plan need not be identical but each grant of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units must contain and be subject to the terms and conditions set forth below.
Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Unit Awards.
and/or
 
(b)   Each Award Agreement shall contain provisions regarding (i) the number of Shares or Restricted Stock Units subject to such Award or a formula for determining such number, (ii) the purchase price of the Shares, if any, and the means of payment, (iii) the performance criteria, if any, and level of achievement versus these criteria that shall determine the number of Shares or Restricted Stock Units granted, issued, retainable vested, (iv) such terms and conditions on the grant, issuance, vesting forfeiture of the Shares or Restricted Stock Units as may be determined from time to time by the Administrator, (v) the term of the performance period, if any, as to which performance will be measured for determining the number of such Shares or Restricted Stock Units, and (vi) restrictions on the transferability of the Shares or Restricted Stock Units. Shares issued under a Restricted Stock Award may be issued in the name of the Participant and held by the Participant or held by the Company, in each case as the Administrator may provide.
Contents of Agreement.
and/or
and/or
 
(c)   The grant, issuance, retention, vesting and/or, subject to Section 10, settlement of shares of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units will occur when and in such installments as the Administrator determines or under criteria the Administrator establishes, which may include Qualifying Performance Criteria. The grant, issuance, retention, vesting settlement of Shares under any such Award that is based on performance criteria and level of achievement versus such criteria will be subject to a performance period of not less than one (1) year, and the grant, issuance, retention, vesting settlement of Shares under any Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit Award that is based solely upon continued employment the passage of time may not vest or be settled in full over a period of less than three (3) years but may be subject to pro-rata vesting over such period, except that the Administrator may provide for the satisfaction lapse of all conditions under any such Award in the event of the Participant's death,
Vesting and Performance Criteria.
and/or
and/or
and/or
and/or
 
disability, retirement or in connection with a change in control of the Company, and the Administrator may provide that any such restriction or limitation will not apply in the case of a Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit Award that is issued in payment or settlement of compensation that has been earned by the Participant or that qualifies as a Substitute Award. Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, the performance criteria for any Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code will be a measure based on one or more Qualifying Performance Criteria selected by the Administrator and specified when the Award is granted.
 
(d)   Subject to the limits imposed under Section 162(m) of the Code for Awards that are intended to qualify as "performance based compensation," notwithstanding the satisfaction of any performance goals, the number of Shares granted, issued, retainable vested under an Award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units on account of either financial performance or personal performance evaluations may, to the extent specified in the Award Agreement, be reduced, but not increased, by the Administrator on the basis of such further considerations as the Administrator shall determine.
Discretionary Adjustments and Limits.
and/or
 
(e)   Unless otherwise determined by the Administrator, Participants holding shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder may exercise full voting rights with respect to those shares during the period of restriction. Participants shall have no voting rights with respect to Shares underlying Restricted Stock Units unless and until such Shares are reflected as issued and outstanding shares on the Company's stock ledger.
Voting Rights.
 
(f)   Participants in whose name Restricted Stock is granted shall be entitled to receive all dividends and other distributions paid with respect to those Shares, unless determined otherwise by the Administrator. The Administrator will determine whether any such dividends or distributions will be automatically reinvested in additional shares of Restricted Stock and subject to the same restrictions on transferability as the Restricted Stock with respect to which they were distributed or whether such dividends or distributions will be paid in cash. Shares underlying Restricted Stock Units shall be entitled to dividends or dividend equivalents only to the extent provided by the Administrator. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any dividends or distributions on performance-based Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to the same performance-based vesting criteria and other restrictions on transferability as the underlying Restricted Stock (or Restricted Stock Units) with respect to which they were paid or distributed.
Dividends and Distributions.
 
(g)   The Award Agreement evidencing the grant of an Award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units shall set forth the terms and conditions applicable to such Award upon a Participant's Termination of Employment.
Termination of Employment.
 
 
(a)   Each Incentive Bonus Award will confer upon the Participant the opportunity to earn a future payment tied to the level of achievement with respect to one or more performance criteria established for a performance period of not less than one year (if payable in Shares), and not less than one calendar quarter (if payable solely in cash).
General.
 
(b)   The terms of any Incentive Bonus will be set forth in an Award Agreement. Each Award Agreement evidencing an Incentive Bonus shall contain provisions regarding (i) the target and maximum amount payable to the Participant as an Incentive Bonus, (ii) the performance criteria and level of achievement versus these criteria that shall determine the amount of such payment, (iii) the term of the performance period as to which performance shall be measured for determining the amount of any payment, (iv) the timing of any payment earned by virtue of performance, (v) restrictions on the alienation or transfer of the Incentive Bonus prior to actual payment, (vi) forfeiture provisions and (vii) such further terms and conditions, in each case not inconsistent with this Plan as may be determined from time to time by the Administrator.
Incentive Bonus Document.
 
(c)   The Administrator shall establish the performance criteria and level of achievement versus these criteria that shall determine the target and maximum amount payable under an Incentive Bonus, which criteria may be based on financial performance personal performance
Performance Criteria.
and/or
 
evaluations. The Administrator may specify the percentage of the target Incentive Bonus that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the performance criteria for any portion of an Incentive Bonus that is intended by the Administrator to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code shall be a measure based on one or more Qualifying Performance Criteria (as defined in Section 13(b)) selected by the Administrator and specified at the time the Incentive Bonus is granted. The Administrator shall certify the extent to which any Qualifying Performance Criteria has been satisfied, and the amount payable as a result thereof, prior to payment of any Incentive Bonus that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
(d)   The Administrator shall determine the timing of payment of any Incentive Bonus. Payment of the amount due under an Incentive Bonus may be made in cash or in Shares, as determined by the Administrator. Subject to Section 10, the Administrator may provide for or, subject to such terms and conditions as the Administrator may specify, may permit a Participant to elect for the payment of any Incentive Bonus to be deferred to a specified date or event.
Timing and Form of Payment.
 
(e)   Notwithstanding satisfaction of any performance goals, the amount paid under an Incentive Bonus on account of either financial performance or personal performance evaluations may, to the extent specified in the Award Agreement, be reduced, but not increased, by the Administrator on the basis of such further considerations as the Administrator shall determine.
Discretionary Adjustments.
 
 
The Administrator may, in an Award Agreement or otherwise, provide for the deferred delivery of Shares or cash upon settlement, vesting or other events with respect to Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, or in payment or satisfaction of an Incentive Bonus. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in no event will any deferral of the delivery of Shares or any other payment with respect to any Award be allowed if the Administrator determines that the deferral would result in the imposition of the additional tax under Section 409A(a)(1)(B) of the Code. No Award shall provide for deferral of compensation that does not comply with Section 409A of the Code, unless the Board, at the time of grant, specifically provides that the Award is not intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code. The Company shall have no liability to a Participant, or any other party, if an Award that is intended to be exempt from, or compliant with, Section 409A of the Code is not so exempt or compliant or for any action taken by the Board.
 
 
The Administrator may provide that the Shares issued upon exercise of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right or otherwise subject to or issued under an Award shall be subject to such further agreements, restrictions, conditions or limitations as the Administrator in its discretion may specify prior to the exercise of such Option or Stock Appreciation Right or the grant, vesting or settlement of such Award, including, without limitation, conditions on vesting or transferability, forfeiture or repurchase provisions and method of payment for the Shares issued upon exercise, vesting or settlement of such Award (including, without limitation, the actual or constructive surrender of Shares already owned by the Participant) or payment of taxes arising in connection with an Award. Without limiting the foregoing, such restrictions may address the timing and manner of any resales by the Participant or other subsequent transfers by the Participant of any Shares issued under an Award, including, without limitation (i) restrictions under an insider trading policy or pursuant to applicable law, (ii) restrictions designed to delay coordinate the timing and manner of sales by Participant and holders of other Company equity compensation arrangements, (iii) restrictions as to the use of a specified brokerage firm for such resales or other transfers and (iv) provisions requiring Shares to be sold on the open market or to the Company in order to satisfy tax withholding or other obligations.
and/or
 
 
The number and kind of Shares available for issuance under this Plan (including, without limitation, under any Awards then outstanding), and the number and kind of Shares subject to the individual limits set
 
forth in Section 5 of this Plan, shall be equitably adjusted by the Administrator as it determines appropriate to reflect any reorganization, reclassification, combination or exchange of shares, repurchase of shares, stock split, reverse stock split, spin-off, dividend or other distribution of securities, property or cash (other than regular, quarterly cash dividends), or any other event or transaction that affects the number or kind of Shares of the Company outstanding. Such adjustment may be designed to comply with Section 425 of the Code or, except as otherwise expressly provided in Section 5(d) of this Plan, may be designed to treat the Shares available under the Plan and subject to Awards as if they were all outstanding on the record date for such event or transaction or to increase the number of such Shares to reflect a deemed reinvestment in Shares of the amount distributed to the Company's securityholders. The terms of any outstanding Award shall also be equitably adjusted by the Administrator as to price, number or kind of Shares subject to such Award, vesting, and other terms to reflect the foregoing events, which adjustments need not be uniform as between different Awards or different types of Awards.
 
In the event there shall be any other change in the number or kind of outstanding Shares, or any stock or other securities into which such Shares shall have been changed, or for which it shall have been exchanged, by reason of a change of control, other merger, consolidation or otherwise, then the Administrator shall, in its sole discretion, determine the appropriate and equitable adjustment, if any, to be effected. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the event of any such change described in this paragraph, the Administrator may, in its sole discretion, (i) provide for the assumption or substitution of, or adjustment to, each outstanding Award; (ii) accelerate the vesting of and terminate any restrictions on outstanding Awards; (iii) provide for cancellation of accelerated Awards that are not exercised within a time prescribed by the Administrator; or (iv) provide for the cancellation of any outstanding Awards in exchange for a cash payment to the holders thereof.
 
No right to purchase fractional shares shall result from any adjustment in Awards pursuant to this Section 12. In case of any such adjustment, the Shares subject to the Award shall be rounded down to the nearest whole share. The Company shall notify Participants holding Awards subject to any adjustments pursuant to this Section 12 of such adjustment, but (whether or not notice is given) such adjustment shall be effective and binding for all purposes of the Plan.
 
 
(a)   The Administrator may establish performance criteria and level of achievement versus such criteria that shall determine the number of Shares to be granted, retained, vested, issued or issuable under or in settlement of or the amount payable pursuant to an Award, which criteria may be based on Qualifying Performance Criteria or other standards of financial performance personal performance evaluations. In addition, the Administrator may specify that an Award or a portion of an Award is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, provided that the performance criteria for such Award or portion of an Award that is intended by the Administrator to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code shall be a measure based on one or more Qualifying Performance Criteria selected by the Administrator and specified at the time the Award is granted. The Administrator shall certify the extent to which any Qualifying Performance Criteria has been satisfied, and the amount payable as a result thereof, prior to payment, settlement or vesting of any Award that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code. Notwithstanding satisfaction of any performance goals, the number of Shares issued under or the amount paid under an award may, to the extent specified in the Award Agreement, be reduced (but not increased) by the Administrator on the basis of such further considerations as the Administrator in its sole discretion shall determine.
General.
and/or
 
(b)   For purposes of this Plan, the term "Qualifying Performance Criteria" shall mean any one or more of the following performance criteria, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, applied to either the Company as a whole or to a business unit or Subsidiary, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, and measured either quarterly, annually or cumulatively over a period of years, on an absolute basis or relative to a pre-established target, to previous years' results or to a designated comparison group, in each case as specified by the Administrator: (i) cash flow (before or after
Qualifying Performance Criteria.
 
dividends), (ii) earnings per share (including, without limitation, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization), (iii) stock price, (iv) return on equity, (v) stockholder return or total stockholder return, (vi) return on capital (including, without limitation, return on total capital or return on invested capital), (vii) return on investment, (viii) return on assets or net assets, (ix) market capitalization, (x) economic value added, (xi) debt leverage (debt to capital), (xii) revenue, (xiii) sales or net sales, (xiv) backlog, (xv) income, pre-tax income or net income, (xvi) operating income or pre-tax profit, (xvii) operating profit, net operating profit or economic profit, (xviii) gross margin, operating margin or profit margin, (xix) return on operating revenue or return on operating assets, (xx) cash from operations, (xxi) operating ratio, (xxii) operating revenue, (xxiii) market share improvement, (xxiv) general and administrative expenses, (xxv) gross profit or gross profit percentage, (xxvi) income or pre-tax income percentage, (xxvii) selling, general and administrative expense improvement or containment, (xxiii) land, lot or inventory improvement or (xxix) customer service. To the extent consistent with Section 162(m) of the Code, the Administrator may appropriately adjust any evaluation of performance under a Qualifying Performance Criteria to exclude any of the following events that occurs during a performance period: (i) asset write-downs, (ii) litigation, claims, judgments or settlements, (iii) the effect of changes in tax law, accounting principles or other such laws or provisions affecting reported results, (iv) accruals for reorganization and restructuring programs and (v) any extraordinary, unusual, non-recurring or non-comparable items (A) as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30, (B) as described in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in the Company's Annual Report to stockholders for the applicable year, or (C) publicly announced by the Company in a press release or conference call relating to the Company's results of operations or financial condition for a completed quarterly or annual fiscal period.
 
 
Unless the Administrator specifies otherwise and to the extent permitted under the General Instructions to under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, an Award may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated by a Participant other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and each Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall be exercisable only by the Participant during his or her lifetime, and thereafter by the legal representative of the Participant's estate or the individual to whom such Award was transferred by the Participant's will or the laws of descent and distribution.
Form S-8
 
 
This Plan, the grant, issuance, vesting, exercise and settlement of Awards thereunder, and the obligation of the Company to sell, issue or deliver Shares under such Awards, shall be subject to all applicable foreign, federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations, stock exchange rules and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental or regulatory agency as may be required. The Company shall not be required to register in a Participant's name or deliver any Shares prior to the completion of any registration or qualification of such shares under any foreign, federal, state or local law or any ruling or regulation of any government body which the Administrator shall determine to be necessary or advisable. To the extent the Company is unable to or the Administrator deems it infeasible to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, the Company and its Subsidiaries shall be relieved of any liability with respect to the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained. No Option shall be exercisable and no Shares shall be issued transferable under any other Award unless a registration statement with respect to the Shares underlying such Option is effective and current or the Company has determined that such registration is unnecessary.
and/or
 
In the event an Award is granted to or held by a Participant who is employed or providing services outside the United States, the Administrator may, in its sole discretion, modify the provisions of the Plan or of such Award as they pertain to such individual to comply with applicable foreign law or to recognize differences in local law, currency or tax policy. The Administrator may also impose conditions on the grant, issuance, exercise, vesting, settlement or retention of Awards in order to comply with such foreign law to minimize the Company's obligations with respect to tax equalization for Participants employed outside their home country.
and/or
 
 
To the extent required by applicable federal, state, local or foreign law, a Participant shall be required to satisfy, in a manner satisfactory to the Company, any withholding tax obligations that arise by reason of an Option exercise, disposition of Shares issued under an Incentive Stock Option, the vesting of or settlement of an Award, an election pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Code or otherwise with respect to an Award. To the extent a Participant makes an election under Section 83(b) of the Code, within ten days of filing such election with the Internal Revenue Service, the Participant must notify the Company in writing of such election. The Company and its Subsidiaries shall not be required to issue Shares, make any payment or to recognize the transfer or disposition of Shares until such obligations are satisfied. The Administrator may provide for or permit these obligations to be satisfied through the mandatory or elective sale of Shares by having the Company withhold a portion of the Shares that otherwise would be issued to him or her upon exercise of the Option or the vesting or settlement of an Award, or by tendering Shares previously acquired.
and/or
 
 
(a)   The Plan shall be administered by the Administrator who shall be the Compensation Committee of the Board or, in the absence of a Compensation Committee, the Board itself; provided, however, that with respect to Awards to Nonemployee Directors, the Administrator shall be the full Board. Any power of the Administrator may also be exercised by the Board, except to the extent that the grant or exercise of such authority would cause any Award or transaction to become subject to (or lose an exemption under) the short-swing profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or cause an Award designated as a Performance Award not to qualify for treatment as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code. To the extent that any permitted action taken by the Board conflicts with action taken by the Administrator, the Board action shall control. The Administrator may by resolution authorize one or more officers of the Company to perform any or all things that the Administrator is authorized and empowered to do or perform under the Plan, and for all purposes under this Plan, such officer or officers shall be treated as the Administrator; provided, however, that the resolution so authorizing such officer or officers shall specify the total number of Awards (if any) such officer or officers may award pursuant to such delegated authority. No such officer shall designate himself or herself or any executive officer or director of the Company as a recipient of any Awards granted under authority delegated to such officer. In addition, the Administrator may delegate any or all aspects of the administration of the Plan to one or more officers or employees of the Company or any Subsidiary, to one or more agents.
Administrator of the Plan.
day-to-day
and/or
 
(b)   Subject to the express provisions of this Plan, the Administrator shall be authorized and empowered to do all things that it determines to be necessary or appropriate in connection with the administration of this Plan, including, without limitation: (i) to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to this Plan and to define terms not otherwise defined herein; (ii) to determine which persons are Participants, to which of such Participants, if any, Awards shall be granted hereunder and the timing of any such Awards; (iii) to grant Awards to Participants and determine the terms and conditions thereof, including, without limitation, the number of Shares subject to Awards and the exercise or purchase price of such Shares and the circumstances under which Awards become exercisable or vested or are forfeited or expire, which terms may but need not be conditioned upon the passage of time, continued employment, the satisfaction of performance criteria, the occurrence of certain events (including, without limitation, events which the Board or the Administrator determine constitute a change of control), or other factors; (iv) to establish and verify the extent of satisfaction of any performance goals or other conditions applicable to the grant, issuance, exercisability, vesting ability to retain any Award; (v) to prescribe and amend the terms of the agreements or other documents evidencing Awards made under this Plan (which need not be identical) and the terms of or form of any document or notice required to be delivered to the Company by Participants under this Plan; (vi) to determine whether, and the extent to which, adjustments are required pursuant to Section 12; (vii) to interpret and construe this Plan, any rules and regulations under this Plan and the terms and conditions of any Award granted hereunder, and to make exceptions to any such provisions if the Administrator, in good faith, determines that it is necessary to do so in light of the circumstances and for the benefit of the Company; (viii) to approve corrections in the documentation or administration of any Award; and (ix) to make all other determinations
Powers of Administrator.
and/or
 
deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of this Plan. The Administrator may, in its sole and absolute discretion, without amendment to the Plan, waive or amend the operation of Plan provisions respecting exercise after Termination of Employment or service to the Company or an affiliate and, except as otherwise provided herein, adjust any of the terms of any Award. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, other than in connection with a change in the Company's capitalization or other event or transaction described in Section 12, the terms of outstanding Awards may not be amended to (a) reduce the exercise price of outstanding Options or Stock Appreciation Rights or take any other action that is treated as a re-pricing under GAAP, or (b) at any time when the exercise price of an Option or SAR is greater than the market value of a Share, cancel, exchange, buyout or surrender outstanding Options or Stock Appreciation Rights in exchange for cash, other awards or Options or Stock Appreciation Rights with an exercise price that is less than the exercise price of the original Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, without stockholder approval.
 
(c)   All decisions, determinations and interpretations by the Administrator regarding the Plan, any rules and regulations under the Plan and the terms and conditions of or operation of any Award granted hereunder, shall be final and binding on all Participants, beneficiaries, heirs, assigns or other persons holding or claiming rights under the Plan or any Award. The Administrator shall consider such factors as it deems relevant, in its sole and absolute discretion, to making such decisions, determinations and interpretations including, without limitation, the recommendations or advice of any officer or other employee of the Company and such attorneys, consultants and accountants as it may select.
Determinations by the Administrator.
 
(d)   In the case of a grant of an Award to any Participant employed by a Subsidiary, such grant may, if the Administrator so directs, be implemented by the Company issuing any subject Shares to the Subsidiary, for such lawful consideration as the Administrator may determine, upon the condition or understanding that the Subsidiary will transfer the Shares to the Participant in accordance with the terms of the Award specified by the Administrator pursuant to the provisions of the Plan. Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, such Award may be issued by and in the name of the Subsidiary and shall be deemed granted on such date as the Administrator shall determine.
Subsidiary Awards.
 
 
The Board or the Compensation Committee of the Board may amend, alter or discontinue this Plan, and the Administrator may amend or alter any agreement or other document evidencing an Award made under this Plan but, except as provided pursuant to the provisions of Section 12, no such amendment shall, without the approval of the stockholders of the Company:
 
(a) increase the maximum number of Shares for which Awards may be granted under this Plan;
 
(b) whether before or after the date of grant, reduce the price at which Options or Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised below the price provided for in Section 6(b) or Section 7;
 
(c) other than in connection with a change in the Company's capitalization or other event or transaction described in Section 12, amend the terms of outstanding Awards to (a) reduce the exercise price of outstanding Options or Stock Appreciation Rights or take any other action that is treated as a re-pricing under GAAP, or (b) at any time when the exercise price of an Option or SAR is greater than the market value of a Share, cancel, exchange, buyout or surrender outstanding Options or Stock Appreciation Rights in exchange for cash, other awards or Options or Stock Appreciation Rights with an exercise price that is less than the exercise price of the original Options or Stock Appreciation Rights;
 
(d) extend the term of this Plan;
 
(e) change the class of persons eligible to be Participants;
 
(f) otherwise amend the Plan in any manner requiring stockholder approval by law or under the New York Stock Exchange listing requirements; or
 
(g) increase the individual maximum limits in Sections 5(d) and (e).
 
No amendment or alteration to the Plan or an Award or Award Agreement shall be made which would impair the rights of the holder of an Award, without such holder's consent, provided that no such consent shall be required if (i) the Administrator determines in its sole discretion and prior to the date of any change of control (as defined in the applicable Award Agreement) that such amendment or alteration either is required or advisable in order for the Company, the Plan or the Award to satisfy any law or regulation or stock exchange listing requirement or to meet the requirements of or avoid adverse financial accounting consequences under any accounting standard, or (ii) the Administrator determines in its sole discretion that such amendment or alteration is not reasonably likely to significantly diminish the benefits provided under the Award, or that any such diminution has been adequately compensated.
 
 
The Company and any Subsidiary or affiliate which is in existence or hereafter comes into existence shall not be liable to a Participant or any other person as to: (i) the non-issuance or sale of Shares as to which the Company has been unable to obtain from any regulatory body having jurisdiction the authority deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder; and (ii) any tax consequence expected, but not realized, by any Participant or other person due to the receipt, exercise or settlement of any Award granted hereunder.
 
 
Neither the adoption of this Plan by the Board nor the submission of this Plan to the stockholders of the Company for approval shall be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board or the Administrator to adopt such other incentive arrangements as either may deem desirable, including, without limitation, the granting of restricted stock or stock options otherwise than under this Plan or an arrangement that is or is not intended to qualify under Code Section 162(m), and such arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.
 
 
This Plan and any agreements or other documents hereunder shall be interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws of the Delaware and applicable federal law. Any reference in this Plan or in the agreement or other document evidencing any Awards to a provision of law or to a rule or regulation shall be deemed to include any successor law, rule or regulation of similar effect or applicability.
 
 
Nothing in this Plan or an Award Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company, its Subsidiaries its affiliates to terminate any Participant's employment, service on the Board or service for the Company at any time or for any reason not prohibited by law, nor shall this Plan or an Award itself confer upon any Participant any right to continue his or her employment or service for any specified period of time. Neither an Award nor any benefits arising under this Plan shall constitute an employment contract with the Company, any Subsidiary its affiliates. Subject to Sections 4 and 18, this Plan and the benefits hereunder may be terminated at any time in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Board without giving rise to any liability on the part of the Company, its Subsidiaries its affiliates.
and/or
and/or
and/or
 
 
The Plan is intended to be an unfunded plan. Participants are and shall at all times be general creditors of the Company with respect to their Awards. If the Administrator or the Company chooses to set aside funds in a trust or otherwise for the payment of Awards under the Plan, such funds shall at all times be subject to the claims of the creditors of the Company in the event of its bankruptcy or insolvency.


