FILE:DHI/DHI-8K-20120127122314.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 27, 2012, D.R. Horton, Inc. issued a press release announcing its results and related information for its first quarter ended December 31, 2011 and declaring its quarterly dividend. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference in its entirety into this Item 2.02.
The information furnished in this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
D.R. HORTON, INC., AMERICA'S BUILDER, REPORTS FIRST QUARTER FISCAL 2012 RESULTS AND DECLARES QUARTERLY DIVIDEND
 D.R. Horton, Inc. (NYSE:DHI), America's Builder, today reported net income for its first fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011 of $27.7 million, or $0.09 per diluted share, compared to a net loss of $20.4 million, or $0.06 per diluted share, for the quarter ended December 31, 2010. Homebuilding revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 totaled $885.6 million, compared to $767.0 million in the year ago quarter. Homes closed in the quarter totaled 4,118, compared to 3,637 homes in the year ago quarter.
FORT WORTH, TEXAS
Net sales orders for the first quarter ended December 31, 2011 totaled 3,794 homes ($823.2 million), compared to 3,363 homes ($705.6 million) in the year ago quarter. The Company's cancellation rate (cancelled sales orders divided by gross sales orders) for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 was 26%. The Company's sales order backlog of homes under contract at December 31, 2011 was 4,530 homes ($975.0 million), compared to 3,854 homes ($795.4 million) at December 31, 2010.
During the first quarter, the Company repurchased $10.8 million of its 6.5% senior notes due 2016 for $10.6 million, plus accrued interest. The Company ended the quarter with $1.0 billion of homebuilding unrestricted cash and marketable securities and net homebuilding debt to total capital of 17.5%. Net homebuilding debt to total capital consists of homebuilding notes payable net of cash and marketable securities divided by total equity plus homebuilding notes payable net of cash and marketable securities.
The Company has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.0375 per share. The dividend is payable on February 21, 2012 to stockholders of record on February 10, 2012.
Donald R. Horton, Chairman of the Board, said, "We are off to a strong start in fiscal 2012. We were profitable in our first quarter and are focused on being profitable each quarter and for the entire fiscal yearOur net sales orders, homes closed and sales order backlog all increased by double-digit percentages over the prior year quarter. We are looking forward to the spring selling season with cautious optimism. We are positioned for growth, and we remain committed to controlling our construction costs, SG&A and inventory levels while maintaining our strong balance sheet and liquidity."
. 
The Company will host a conference call today (Friday, January 27th) at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time. The dial-in number is 877-407-8033, and the call will also be webcast from on the "Investors" page.
www.drhorton.com
D.R. Horton, Inc., America's Builder, is the largest homebuilder in the United States, based on its 17,176 homes closed in the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2011. Founded in 1978 in Fort Worth, Texas, D.R. Horton has operations in 73 markets in 25 states in the East, Midwest, Southeast, South Central, Southwest and West regions of the United States. The Company is engaged in the construction and sale of high quality homes with sales prices ranging from $90,000 to over $600,000. D.R. Horton also provides mortgage financing and title services for homebuyers through its mortgage and title subsidiaries.
Portions of this document may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although D.R. Horton believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R. Horton on the date this release was issued. D.R. Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements in this release include that we are looking forward to the spring selling season with cautious optimism.The forward-looking statements also include that we have positioned ourselves for growth, and we remain committed to controlling our construction costs, SG&A and inventory levels while maintaining our strong balance sheet and liquidity.
Factors that may cause the actual results to be materially different from the future results expressed by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: the continuing downturn in the homebuilding industry, including further deterioration in industry or broader economic conditions; the continuing constriction of the credit markets, which could limit our ability to access capital and increase our costs of capital; the reduction in availability of mortgage financing, increases in mortgage interest rates and the effects of government programs; the limited success of our strategies in responding to adverse conditions in the industry; the impact of an inflationary or deflationary environment; changes in general economic, real estate and other business conditions; the risks associated with our inventory ownership position in changing market conditions; supply risks for land, materials and labor; changes in the costs of owning a home; the effects of governmental regulations and environmental matters on our homebuilding operations; the effects of governmental regulation on our financial services operations; the uncertainties inherent in home warranty and construction defect claims matters; our substantial debt and our ability to comply with related debt covenants, restrictions and limitations; competitive conditions within our industry; our ability to effect any future growth strategies successfully; our ability to realize our deferred income tax asset; and our ability to utilize our tax losses, which could be substantially limited if we experienced an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R. Horton's annual report on Form 10-K which is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 


