FILE:DHI/DHI-8K-20120216183919.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On February 16, 2012, D.R. Horton, Inc. issued a press release reporting that its DHI Mortgage subsidiary experienced a software security breach in its Internet Loan Prequalification System. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference in its entirety into this Item 8.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99.1 Press Release dated February 16, 2012
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
D.R. HORTON, INC. REPORTS THAT ITS DHI MORTGAGE SUBSIDIARY EXPERIENCED A SOFTWARE SECURITY BREACH
 D.R. Horton, Inc. (NYSE:DHI), America's Builder, today announced that its DHI Mortgage subsidiary experienced a software security breach by unknown external sources in its Internet Loan Prequalification System. Upon identifying the security breach, DHI Mortgage took immediate steps to remedy the breach by isolating the affected server, purging certain affected files and modifying our electronic security measures to address the specific issue. We are in the process of notifying affected customers that their personal data may have been compromised. We regret the inconvenience to our customers, and encourage them to follow the precautionary actions outlined in the email or letter that they receive.
FORT WORTH, TEXAS
D.R. Horton, Inc., America's Builder, is the largest homebuilder in the United States, based on its 17,176 homes closed in the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2011. Founded in 1978 in Fort Worth, Texas, D.R. Horton has operations in 73 markets in 25 states in the East, Midwest, Southeast, South Central, Southwest and West regions of the United States. The Company is engaged in the construction and sale of high quality homes with sales prices ranging from $90,000 to over $600,000. D.R. Horton also provides mortgage financing and title services for homebuyers through its mortgage and title subsidiaries.


