FILE:DHI/DHI-8K-20120131181339.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 26, 2012, D.R. Horton, Inc. held its Annual Meeting of Stockholders At the Annual Meeting, stockholders considered: (1) the election of six director nominees named in the Company's proxy statement, (2) an advisory vote on executive compensation, (3) the frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation, and (4) the ratification of the appointment of PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLC as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal 2012. There were 316,325,724 shares of Common Stock eligible to be voted at this meeting and there were 284,826,718 shares of Common Stock represented in person or by proxy. The Annual Meeting voting results of the four listed matters were as follows:
(the "Company")
(the "Annual Meeting").
Stockholders elected each of the following nominees as a director to hold office until the 2013 Annual Meeting and until his successor is duly elected and qualified based on the following votes.
(1). .
Proposal One: Election of Directors
 
 
Stockholders approved the Company's 2012 executive compensation package, based on the following votes.
(2). .
Proposal Two: Advisory vote on executive compensation
 
Stockholders approved an annual advisory vote on executive compensation package, based on the following votes.
(3). .
Proposal Three: Frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation
 
 
Stockholders approved the ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2012 based on the following votes.
(4). .
Proposal Four: Ratify the Appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


