Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. This Annual Report on Form 10 K contains certain statements that are forward looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. See Risk Factors and Forward looking Statements. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Teradata provides enterprise data warehousing solutions for customers worldwide that combine hardware, software (including the Teradata database software and tools, data mining and analytical applications), and related consulting 29 Table of Contents and support services. These solutions can also include third party products and services from other leading technology and service partners. Our solutions enable customers to integrate detailed enterprise wide data such as customer, financial and operational data into a single data warehouse and provide the analytical capabilities to transform that data into useful information. As a result, customers have a consistent, accurate view of their data and businesses, which gives them more accurate, insightful and timely information when and where they need it so they can make better and faster decisions. This approach provides customers with better insight, faster access to new analytics and less redundancy within their information technology infrastructure so they can maximize business value while minimizing their total cost of ownership. Our data warehousing technologies provide a high level of performance, scalability, availability and manageability for strategic and operational analytic requirements. Our professional service consultants combine a proven methodology, deep industry expertise and years of hands on experience to help clients quickly capture business value while minimizing risk. Our customer services professionals provide a single source of support services to allow customers to maximize use and fully leverage the value of their investments in data warehousing. Through active enterprise intelligence, Teradata is extending the use of traditional data warehousing by integrating advanced analytics into enterprise business processes, allowing companies to combine the analysis of current and historical data so operations personnel can make decisions at the point of contact or service and take action as events occur. Teradata offers data warehousing solutions to many major industries, including banking/financial services, entertainment (including gaming and media), government, insurance and healthcare, manufacturing, retail, telecommunications, transportation and travel. Teradata delivers its solutions primarily through direct sales channels, as well as through alliances with system integrators, other independent software vendors, value added resellers and distributors. We deliver our solutions to customers on a global basis, and organize our operations in the following three regions which are also our reportable segments: North America and Latin America (Americas), Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), and Asia Pacific and Japan (APJ). REVISION OF PRIOR PERIOD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS During the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company identified an error related to a sales transaction that was originally recognized in the fourth quarter of 2006. Upon subsequent review, management determined that the transaction, which was made through a reseller, did not meet the conditions for revenue recognition until the first quarter of 2007, when the products were delivered and accepted by the end user customer. The impact of this error was an overstatement of revenue and net income in the three and twelve month periods ended December 31, 2006, and an understatement of revenue and net income in the three month period ended March 31, 2007. We assessed the materiality of this error on the three and twelve month periods ended December 31, 2006, in accordance with the SECs Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 99 (SAB 99), and concluded that the error was not material to either period. However, we did conclude that the error was material to the three months ended March 31, 2007, as it understated the first quarter results. Accordingly, in accordance with the SECs Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108 (SAB 108), the full year 2006 financial statements presented herein have been revised to correct for the immaterial error and to allow for the correct recording of this transaction in the 2007 consolidated financial statements. The correction resulted in a $13 million reduction in product revenue, a $3 million reduction in cost of products and a $4 million reduction to income tax expense, resulting in a $6 million reduction to net income ($0.04 per diluted share) in the full year 2006 financial statements. These revenue and expense amounts have subsequently been reflected in the 2007 results. Associated adjustments were also made to decrease accounts receivable by $13 million, increase inventory by $3 million and increase deferred income taxes by $4 million within the December 31, 2006, consolidated balance sheet. The revision had no net impact on Teradatas net cash provided by operating activities for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006. 30 Table of Contents 2007 FINANCIAL OVERVIEW As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following were significant themes and events for 2007: Revenue increased 10% in 2007 from 2006, driven by strong growth in the EMEA and APJ regions. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue increased to 53.8% in 2007 from 53.6% in 2006. Operating income was $320 million in 2007, up from $302 million in 2006. Operating income in 2007 included separation related expenses of $17 million. Net income of $200 million in 2007 increased from $192 million in 2006. Net income per common share (diluted) of $1.10 in 2007 compared to $1.06 in 2006. Included in the 2007 results were $0.08 of Separation related costs and $0.06 of unfavorable tax adjustments. STRATEGY OVERVIEW Our strategy is to grow profitability as the global leader of enterprise data warehousing technology and services. We are executing our multi year strategy to advance enterprise data warehousing as the preferred data warehousing architecture that companies utilize to build their enterprise analytics infrastructure. To do this, we are focused on three core strategies: Increasing our technology capabilities by investing in near real time (or active) data warehousing and advanced development; Expanding our solutions and offers by investing in consulting and support services, applications and partners; and Optimizing our market coverage through effective use of our sales, marketing and services resources. Further discussion of our business strategy is included in the section entitled Business included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K and incorporated herein by reference. FUTURE TRENDS We believe that demand for our solutions will continue to increase due to the continued increase in data volumes, the scale and complexity of business requirements, and the growing use of new data elements and more near real time analytics over time. The adoption by customers of more near real time analysis for enterprise intelligence is driving more applications, usage and capacity. We expect 2008 full year revenue growth of approximately 5% to 8%. This outlook for 2008 includes some conservatism due to the potential impact of certain macroeconomic factors on capital spending, particularly in the United States. Also, while the EMEA and APJ segments experienced very strong revenue growth of 18% in 2007, we do not anticipate this same level of revenue growth for these regions in 2008. The size, timing and contracted terms of large customer orders for our products and services can impact, both positively and negatively, our quarterly operating results. While we have seen fluctuations in the information technology environment in the past, our outlook remains positive. We expect that competitive and technological pricing trends will continue at the levels experienced in 2007 and 2006. In 2008, we continue to be committed to new product development and achieving maximum yield from our research and development spending and resources, which are intended to drive revenue growth, and we continue to evaluate opportunities to increase our market coverage. We expect our full year effective tax rate for 2008 to be approximately 30%. THE SEPARATION OF TERADATA FROM NCR CORPORATION The Separation became effective on September 30, 2007, through a distribution of 100% of the common stock of Teradata Corporation to the holders of record of NCRs common stock. The Separation was completed pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement by which NCR contributed to the Teradata Corporation all of the assets 31 Table of Contents and liabilities associated with the Teradata data warehousing business. We have received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service indicating that the Separation was tax free to the stockholders, NCR and Teradata for U.S. federal income tax purposes. NCR distributed all of the shares of Teradata Corporation common stock as a dividend on NCR stock as of the record date for the Separation. RESULTS FROM OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007, 2006 AND 2005 In millions 2007 % ofRevenue 2006 % ofRevenue 2005 % ofRevenue Product revenue $ 884 51.9 % $ 807 52.2 % $ 786 53.6 % Service revenue 818 48.1 % 740 47.8 % 681 46.4 % Total revenue 1,702 100 % 1,547 100 % 1,467 100 % Gross margin Product gross margin 572 64.7 % 518 64.2 % 500 63.6 % Service gross margin 344 42.1 % 311 42.0 % 295 43.3 % Total gross margin 916 53.8 % 829 53.6 % 795 54.2 % Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses 470 27.6 % 410 26.5 % 391 26.7 % Research and development expenses 126 7.4 % 117 7.6 % 120 8.2 % Total expenses 596 35.0 % 527 34.1 % 511 34.8 % Operating income $ 320 18.8 % $ 302 19.5 % $ 284 19.4 % Teradata revenue increased 10% in 2007 from 2006. The revenue increase included a benefit of 2% from foreign currency fluctuations. The growth was driven by the need for more centralized data warehouse systems and is indicative of customers valuing the analytical capabilities of our solutions and the return on investment they can provide. Product revenue increased 10% in 2007 from 2006, primarily due to capacity expansions and technology upgrades by existing customers, as well as sales to new customers. Service revenue increased 11% in 2007 from 2006, driven by strong growth in both professional services and annuity support services. Product revenue, as a percentage of total revenue, declined in 2007 due to the increase in service revenue in 2007. Operating income was up $18 million in 2007 compared to 2006. The operating income benefited from the higher volume, offset somewhat by higher operating expenses, which included separation related costs and recurring incremental independent company costs, as well as higher selling and marketing expenses and increased investment in research and development. Our revenue increased 5% in 2006 from 2005. Revenue increased due to strong demand for a consolidated, enterprise wide data warehousing architecture. Foreign currency fluctuations had less than 1% of negative impact on the year over year revenue comparison. Product revenue increased 3% in 2006 from 2005, led by growth in the EMEA region. Service revenue increased 9% in 2006 from 2005, primarily due to increases in professional services and annuity support services in the Americas region. Operating income increased $18 million in 2006 from 2005 due primarily to higher volume, offset somewhat by increases in selling and marketing expenses. Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of revenue for 2007 was higher at 53.8% in 2007 compared to 53.6% in 2006. Product gross margin increased to 64.7% in 2007, compared to 64.2% in 2006. Service gross margin improved to 42.1% in 2007 compared to 42.0% in 2006. The increase in product gross margins was driven primarily by the EMEA and APJ regions. The improvement in total gross margin overcame the adverse mix effect of having a higher growth rate of the lower margin service revenue (as compared to product revenue) in 2007. 32 Table of Contents Gross margin as a percentage of revenue for 2006 decreased to 53.6% from 54.2% in 2005. Product gross margin increased to 64.2% for 2006 compared to 63.6% in 2005, primarily due to improved product revenue mix. Service gross margin decreased to 42.0% for 2006 from 43.3% in 2005 as Teradata added professional services resources. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses, characterized as selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses, were $596 million in 2007 compared to $527 million in 2006. As a percentage of revenue, total operating expenses increased to 35.0% in 2007 from 34.1% in 2006. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses of $60 million included $17 million in separation related expenses and $8 million of recurring incremental costs subsequent to the Separation as Teradata began operating as an independent publicly traded company. The remainder of the increase was primarily due to increased selling and marketing expense (consisting of compensation expense as well as marketing, partnering, and pre sale activities), foreign currency impact and stock based compensation. Research and development expenses were $9 million higher in 2007 compared to 2006, reflecting increased investment in product development. Our 2006 operating expenses were $527 million in 2006 compared to $511 million in 2005. As a percentage of revenue, total operating expenses improved to 34.1% in 2006 from 34.8% in 2005. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses of $19 million was primarily due to a $29 million increase in selling and marketing expenses and a $5 million increase in stock based compensation as a result of adopting Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004) (SFAS 123R), Share Based Payment. The increase was partially offset by decreases of $14 million in expenses from NCR for corporate related functions. The decrease in costs allocated from NCR coincided with its multi year re engineering efforts to drive operational improvements through simplification, standardization, globalization and consistency across the organization, which reduced overall costs at the NCR level. Research and development expenditures were lower, primarily due to the timing of the capitalization of software development. For more information on the impact of the timing of software capitalization, see the subhead entitled Critical Accounting Policies Capitalized Software included below in this MD&A section. Effects of Pension and Postemployment Benefit Plans Teradatas pension and postemployment benefit expense for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, is shown below. Pension and postemployment benefit expenses incurred prior to the Separation were allocated to Teradata by NCR. In millions 2007 2006 2005 Pension expense $ 9 $ 23 $ 22 Postemployment expense 15 16 17 Total expense $ 24 $ 39 $ 39 Teradata recorded $9 million of pension expense in 2007 versus $23 million of pension expense in 2006. This decrease was due primarily to NCRs action to freeze its U.S. defined pension plans and cease the accrual of additional benefits for all participants in the U.S. plans after December 31, 2006. In connection with the Separation, as discussed in Notes 1 and 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company assumed net pension assets and liabilities of $41 million and postemployment liabilities of $50 million. Income Taxes The tax rate in 2007 was 37.9%. This rate includes a discrete $10 million charge, or 3.1%, related to a tax rate change in Germany, as well as a $7 million charge, or 2.2%, to correct prior period errors in the calculation of the income tax provision related to intercompany profit eliminations. As the impact of this error was not material to the 33 Table of Contents then current or any prior period, it was recorded in the second quarter of 2007. The 2007 tax rate also included a $6 million tax benefit, or 1.9%, related to the utilization of certain tax attributes associates with foreign sourced income. The tax rate in 2006 was 36.4%. The tax rate in 2005 was 27.5%, and included $33 million or 12% of tax benefits resulting from NCRs resolution of prior year tax audits. See Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these prior year tax items. Revenue and Gross Margin by Operating Segment Teradata manages its business in three regions the Americas, EMEA, and APJ regions which are also the Companys operating segments. For purposes of discussing our results by segment, we exclude the impact of certain items, consistent with the manner by which management evaluates the performance of each segment and reports our operating results under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131 (SFAS 131), Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by Teradata management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess our financial performance. The discussion of our segment results describes the changes in results as compared to the prior year period. These changes do not represent changes in long term trends. The effect of certain corporate related items has been excluded from the segment gross margin for each reporting segment presented and discussed below. Teradata does not use corporate level selling, general and administrative, or research and development expenses to measure the performance of the regional operating segments. Our segment results are reconciled to total company results reported under GAAP in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the years ended December 31: In millions 2007 % ofRevenue 2006 % ofRevenue 2005 % ofRevenue Revenue Americas $ 964 57 % $ 920 60 % $ 861 59 % EMEA 424 25 % 360 23 % 340 23 % APJ 314 18 % 267 17 % 266 18 % Total revenue 1,702 100 % 1,547 100 % 1,467 100 % Segment gross margin Americas 560 58.1 % 545 59.2 % 507 58.9 % EMEA 207 48.8 % 168 46.7 % 165 48.5 % APJ 159 50.6 % 126 47.2 % 130 48.9 % Total segment gross margin $ 926 54.4 % $ 839 54.2 % $ 802 54.7 % Americas Revenue increased 5% in 2007 from 2006, largely driven by growth in service revenue. The revenue growth included 1% of benefit from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased to 58.1% for 2007, from 59.2% for 2006, driven primarily by reduced service margins. Revenue increased 7% in 2006 from 2005, primarily driven by increased service revenue. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue increased to 59.2% in 2006, from 58.9% in 2005, with improved margin rates slightly offset by the impact of a higher mix of service revenue as compared to the prior year. EMEA Revenue increased 18% in 2007 from 2006, with double digit growth in both product and service revenue. The revenue growth included 7% of benefit from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue increased to 48.8% in 2007, from 46.7% in 2006, with improvements in both product and service margin. The improvement in gross margin rates was offset somewhat by the increased mix of lower margin services revenue. 34 Table of Contents Revenue increased 6% in 2006 from 2005, with increases in both product and service revenue. The revenue growth included 1% of benefit from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased to 46.7% in 2006, from 48.5% in 2005. The reduction was primarily driven by lower service margins. APJ Revenue increased 18% in 2007 from 2006, led predominantly by growth in product revenue. The revenue growth included 3% of benefit from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue was 50.6% in 2007, up from 47.2% in 2006, driven by the greater mix of product revenue, as well as improved product margins. Revenue was roughly flat in 2006 from 2005. Revenue in 2006 included 2% of negative impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased to 47.2% in 2006, from 48.9% in 2005. The reduction was primarily related to lower service margins. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Prior to the Separation, Teradatas financial resources were provided by NCR, which managed cash and cash equivalents on a centralized basis. Cash receipts associated with Teradatas business were transferred to NCR on a daily basis, and NCR funded Teradatas cash disbursements. These net cash transfers were reflected in parent company equity in Teradatas historical financial statements. Upon the Separation, the Company received $196 million in cash from NCR, plus a note receivable for another $4 million in cash. The balance of the note from NCR was collected in October 2007. In addition, on October 1, 2007, the Company entered into a five year, $300 million unsecured revolving credit facility. This credit facility contains certain representations and warranties; conditions; affirmative, negative and financial covenants; and events of default customary for such facilities. For most borrowings, Teradata would anticipate choosing a floating rate based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). If the facility had been fully drawn at December 31, 2007, the spread over the LIBOR would have been 32 basis points (for an interest rate of 5.04%, assuming a 6 month borrowing term) given Teradatas leverage ratio at that date. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under this revolving credit facility and was in compliance with all covenants. Also in connection with the Separation, the Company assumed pension and postemployment benefit obligations and plan assets relating to the Teradata business. The unfunded portion of the pension and postemployment obligations at December 31, 2007, were $41 million and $53 million, respectively. Management believes Company cash flows from operations and the $300 million credit facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions and other financing requirements for the foreseeable future. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise to comply with the terms of the credit facilities, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. Teradatas management uses a non GAAP measure called free cash flow, which we define as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment, and additions to capitalized software, to assess the financial performance of the Company. Free cash flow does not have a uniform definition under GAAP; and therefore, Teradatas definition may differ from other companies definitions of this measure. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures that are taken directly from the consolidated statements of cash flows. We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures for, among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions, repurchase of Teradata stock and repayment of debt obligations. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. 35 Table of Contents The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures for the following periods: In millions 2007 2006 2005 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 387 $ 219 $ 192 Less: Expenditures for property, plant and equipment (50 ) (20 ) (18 ) Additions to capitalized software (50 ) (48 ) (37 ) Free cash flow $ 287 $ 151 $ 137 Cash provided by operating activities increased by $168 million in 2007, while capital expenditures increased by $32 million, resulting in a net increase in free cash flow of $136 million compared to 2006. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to higher net income, increased deferred income tax expense, increased payables and accrued expenses, offset somewhat by an increase in receivables. The increase in deferred income tax expense was primarily related to the amortization of capitalized research and development credits and a $10 million charge related to a tax rate change in Germany. Receivables increased due to several factors related to the Separation. These included such things as customer payments on Teradata invoices that were issued prior to the Separation that were collected by NCR prior to year end but were not submitted to Teradata before December 31, 2007, and an increase in value added tax (VAT) receivables (prior to the Separation, most VAT due from customers was not recorded as part of Teradatas receivables balances). Lastly, there was an increase compared to the prior year in billings in the second half of the fourth quarter that were not collected prior to year end. Accounts payable increased largely due to transition activities and increased volume with key suppliers, especially as it relates to year end activity. Transition activities primarily consisted of payments made by NCR on Teradatas behalf because the original purchase order was placed by NCR. These payments made by NCR are subsequently recorded by the Company as payables back to NCR. Capital expenditures were higher in 2007 largely due to activity related to the Separation, including investments in the Companys IT infrastructure and the acquisition of a corporate aircraft. Cash provided by operating activities increased by $27 million in 2006, while capital expenditures increased by $13 million, resulting in a net increase in free cash flow of $14 million compared to 2005. The increase in cash from operating activities was primarily driven by higher net income (net of non cash items). The increase in net income was partially offset by higher receivables. The increase in capital expenditures was largely due to increased investment in software development. Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. These other investing activities primarily consisted of acquisition related activity. Teradatas financing activities consisted primarily of net cash transfers to NCR of $216 million (prior to the Separation, cash generated by Teradata was contributed to NCR), and a $200 million cash inflow from NCR based on the Separation. In 2007, the Company identified certain errors in the calculation of deferred tax assets and liabilities that resulted in an overstatement of net deferred tax assets and parent company equity in periods prior to the Separation, which were determined to be immaterial to previously issued financial statements. In 2007, the Company corrected the error by reducing net deferred tax assets and parent company equity by approximately $43 million. This adjustment is included in the Net transfers to parent in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders Equity. The adjustment had no effect on previously reported income tax expense, net income or cash. On February 11, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized two stock repurchase programs. The employee stock dilution offset program is an ongoing self funding, dilution mitigation program that uses the cash received from employee share purchases under the Teradata Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan and option exercises under the Teradata Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan to repurchase Company common stock on the open market at managements discretion, in accordance with applicable securities rules regarding issuer repurchases. In addition, the Board authorized a general open market share repurchase program pursuant to which the Company 36 Table of Contents may spend up to $250 million over a two year period to repurchase its common stock on the open market at managements discretion, in accordance with applicable securities rules regarding issuer repurchases. No stock repurchases had been made by the Company as of December 31, 2007. Subsequent to the Companys customary blackout period surrounding the release of earnings, from February 14, 2008 through February 29, 2008, the Company repurchased approximately 1.6 million shares for approximately $38 million. In order to preserve the tax free status of the Separation, the accumulated shares repurchased in the two year period following the Separation must remain below 20% of the common shares outstanding on September 30, 2007. Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. In the normal course of business, we enter into various contractual obligations that impact, or could impact, our liquidity. The following table and discussion outlines our material obligations at December 31, 2007, with projected cash payments in the periods shown: In millions TotalAmounts 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 andThereafter Lease obligations $ 63 $ 15 $ 23 $ 16 $ 9 Purchase obligations 158 131 12 12 3 Total lease and purchase obligations $ 221 $ 146 $ 35 $ 28 $ 12 Our lease obligations in the above table include Company only facilities in various domestic and international locations, as well as leases from NCR for properties that are currently owned by NCR and partially utilized by the Company. Purchase obligations are committed purchase orders and other contractual commitments for goods and services, and include contractual payments in relation to service agreements with Accenture and NCR for ongoing transaction services. We also have product warranties and several guarantees to third parties, as well as postemployment and international pension obligations that may affect future cash flow. These items are not included in the table of obligations shown above. Product warranties and third party guarantees are described in detail in Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Postemployment and pension obligations are described in detail in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities (SPE), which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or for other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As of December 31, 2007, we were not involved in any material unconsolidated SPE transactions. Please see Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on guarantees associated with Teradatas business activities. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. 37 Table of Contents In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the paragraphs below. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with our independent registered public accounting firm and the Audit Committee of Teradatas Board of Directors (see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which contains additional information regarding our accounting policies and other disclosures required by GAAP). Revenue Recognition Teradatas solution offerings typically include hardware, software, software subscriptions, maintenance support services and other professional consulting services. Teradata records revenue when it is realized, or realizable, and earned. Teradata considers these requirements met when: (a) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (b) the products or services have been delivered to the customer; (c) the sales price is fixed or determinable and free of contingencies or significant uncertainties; and (d) collectibility is reasonably assured. Our judgment is required in assessing the probability of collection, which is generally based on evaluation of customer specific information, historical collection experience and economic market conditions. If market conditions decline, or if the financial condition of our customers deteriorates, we may be unable to determine that collectibility is probable, and we could be required to defer the recognition of revenue until we receive customer payments. Teradata reports revenue net of any taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue producing transactions. Teradata delivers its solutions primarily through direct sales channels, as well as through alliances with system integrators, other independent software vendors and distributors, and value added resellers. Substantially all of Teradatas solutions contain software that is more than incidental to the hardware and services. The typical solution requires no significant production, modification or customization of the software or hardware, and the software is not essential to the functionality of the hardware. Revenue related to software and software related elements are recognized under Statement of Position 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition. Revenue for hardware and related installation services is recognized under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104 (SAB 104), Revenue Recognition. For software and software related elements, Teradata allocates revenue to each element based upon its fair value as determined by vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE). VSOE of fair value is based upon the normal pricing and discounting practices for those products and services when sold separately. These elements often involve delivery or performance at different periods of time. Revenue for software is generally recognized upon delivery with the hardware. Revenue for software subscriptions, which provide for unspecified upgrades or enhancements on a when and if available basis, is recognized straight line over the term of the subscription arrangement. Revenue for maintenance support services is also recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the service contract. Revenue for other professional consulting services is recognized as services are provided. In certain instances, customer acceptance is required prior to the passage of title and risk of loss of the delivered products. In such cases, no revenue is recognized until the customer acceptance is obtained. Delivery and acceptance generally occur in the same reporting period. For arrangements involving multiple deliverables, where the deliverables include software and non software products and services, Teradata applies the provisions of Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 00 21, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables, to separate the deliverables and allocate the total arrangement consideration. Accordingly, Teradata evaluates each deliverable to determine whether it represents a separate unit of accounting based on the following criteria: (a) whether the delivered item has value to the customer on a stand alone basis; (b) whether there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered items; and (c) if the contract includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item, delivery or performance of the undelivered items is considered probable and substantially in the control of Teradata. If objective and reliable evidence of fair value exists for all units of accounting in the arrangement, revenue is allocated to each unit of accounting based on relative fair values. Each unit of accounting is then accounted for under the applicable revenue recognition guidance. In situations where there is objective and reliable evidence of fair value for all undelivered elements, but not for delivered elements, the residual method is used to allocate the arrangements consideration. Under the residual 38 Table of Contents method, the fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred, and the remaining portion of the arrangement fee is allocated to the delivered elements and is recognized as revenue. Revenue recognition for complex contractual arrangements requires a greater degree of judgment, including a review of specific contracts, past experience, creditworthiness of customers, international laws and other factors. We must also apply judgment in determining all elements of the arrangement, and in determining the fair value of each element, considering the price charged for each product, and applicable renewal rates for services. Changes in judgments about these factors could impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized between periods. Capitalized Software We account for research and development costs in accordance with applicable accounting pronouncements, including Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 2 (SFAS 2), Accounting for Research and Development Costs, and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 86 (SFAS 86), Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed. SFAS 86 specifies that costs incurred internally in researching and developing a computer software product should be charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Technological feasibility is established when all planning, designing, coding and testing activities that are necessary to establish that the product can be produced to meet its detailed design specifications. In the absence of a detailed program design, a working model is used to establish technological feasibility. Once technological feasibility is established, all software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. The timing of when various research and development projects become technologically feasible or ready for release can cause fluctuation in the amount of research and development costs that are expensed or capitalized in any given period, thus impacting our reported profitability for that period. Income Taxes We account for income taxes in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 (SFAS 109), Accounting for Income Taxes, which recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the enacted tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the deferred tax assets or liabilities are expected to be settled or realized. Teradatas operating results were included in NCRs U.S. and state income tax returns prior to the Separation. The provision for income tax in Teradatas consolidated financial statements prior to the Separation was determined on a separate return basis. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of revenue sharing and cost reimbursement arrangements among related entities, the process of identifying items of revenue and expense that qualify for preferential tax treatment, and segregation of foreign and domestic income and expense to avoid double taxation. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the final tax outcome of these matters could be different from that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Such difference could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income and accruals in the period in which such determination is made. Our effective tax rate may include the impact of certain undistributed foreign earnings for which no U.S. taxes have been provided because such earnings may be planned to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States. Repatriation of foreign earnings to the U.S. will be based on a plan of projected cash flow, working capital and investment needs of foreign and domestic operations. Based on these assumptions, we will estimate the amount that will be distributed to the U.S. and will provide U.S. federal taxes on these amounts. Material changes in our estimates could impact our effect tax rate. We adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48), Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, on January 1, 2007. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes by prescribing thresholds and attributes for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a 39 Table of Contents tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The interpretation also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, and disclosure. Under FIN 48, we may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position should be measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon settlement. The adoption of FIN 48 did not impact our results of operations or net assets. In accordance with the Tax Sharing Agreement between NCR and Teradata, NCR is responsible for all taxes reported on any separate or joint return of NCR, which may also include Teradata for periods prior to the Separation. As of December 31, 2007, the Company has no unrecognized tax benefits. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. The determination as to whether a deferred tax asset will be realized is made on a jurisdictional basis and is based on the evaluation of positive and negative evidence. This evidence includes historical taxable income, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversal of existing temporary differences and the implementation of tax planning strategies. Projected future taxable income is based on expected results and assumptions as to the jurisdiction in which the income will be earned. The expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences is based on current tax law and our tax methods of accounting. We periodically evaluate estimates and judgments related to uncertain tax positions, including transfer pricing related risks and, when necessary, establish contingency reserves to account for uncertain tax positions. As more information is obtained via the settlement of tax audits and through other pertinent information, these projections and estimates are reassessed and may be adjusted accordingly. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income, or if there is a material change in the actual effective tax rates or the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, or if the tax laws change unfavorably, then we could be required to increase our valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, resulting in an increase in our effective tax rate. The impact to our effective tax rate would be an increase of one percentage point for each increase of $3 million to the valuation allowance as of December 31, 2007. We had valuation allowances of $5 million as of December 31, 2007, related to certain deferred income tax assets, in jurisdictions where there is uncertainty as to ultimate realization of a benefit from those tax assets. Stock based Compensation We account for employee stock based compensation costs in accordance with SFAS 123R, which requires us to measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize compensation expense over the service period for which awards are expected to vest. We utilize the Black Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of stock based compensation at the date of grant, which requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including expected volatility and expected holding period. Further, as required under SFAS 123R, we estimate forfeitures for options granted, which are not expected to vest. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent that actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period in which estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types of awards and historical experience. Actual results and future changes in estimates may differ substantially from our current estimates. In addition, we have performance based awards that vest only if specific performance conditions are satisfied, typically at the end of an awards three year performance period. The number of shares that will be earned can vary based on actual performance. No shares will vest if the threshold objectives are not met. In the event the objectives are exceeded, additional shares will vest, up to a maximum payout of 150%. The cost of these awards is expensed over the performance period based upon managements estimate and analysis of future earnings as compared to the performance criteria. Because the actual number of shares to be awarded is not known until the end of the performance period, the actual compensation expense related to these awards could differ from our current expectations. 40 Table of Contents Pension and Postemployment Benefits We account for defined benefit pension plans in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87 (SFAS 87), Employers Accounting for Pensions, which requires that amounts recognized in financial statements be determined on an actuarial basis. Our postemployment plans are accounted for in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 112 (SFAS 112), Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits. Beginning December 31, 2006, we also apply Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158 (SFAS 158), Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, which amends each of these two standards, primarily relative to balance sheet presentation and disclosure requirements. Prior to the Separation, we accounted for pension and postemployment benefit costs under the multiemployer plan approach. We have pension and postemployment benefit costs and credits, which are developed from actuarial valuations. Actuarial assumptions attempt to anticipate future events and are used in calculating the expense and liability relating to these plans. These factors include assumptions we make about interest rates, expected investment return on plan assets, total and involuntary turnover rates, and rates of future compensation increases. In addition, our actuarial consultants also use subjective factors such as withdrawal rates and mortality rates to develop our valuations. We generally review and update these assumptions on an annual basis at the beginning of each fiscal year. We are required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. The actuarial assumptions that we use may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates, or longer or shorter life spans of participants. These differences may result in a significant impact to the measurement of our pension and postemployment benefit obligations, and to the amount of pension and postemployment benefits expense we have recorded or may record. For example, as of December 31, 2007, a one half percent increase/decrease in the discount rate would change the accumulated benefit obligation of our pension plans by $4 million, and a one percent increase/decrease in our involuntary turnover assumption would change our postemployment benefit obligation by $18 million. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS A discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements is described in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and we incorporate such discussion in this MD&A by reference and make it a part thereof. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company employs a foreign currency hedging strategy to limit potential losses in earnings or cash flows from adverse foreign currency exchange rate movements. Foreign currency exposures arise from transactions denominated in a currency other than the Companys functional currency and from foreign denominated revenue and profit translated into U.S. dollars. The primary currencies to which the Company is exposed include the Euro, the British Pound, the Japanese Yen, the Canadian dollar, the Australian dollar, and other Asian and South American currencies. Exposures are hedged with foreign currency forward contracts with maturity dates of twelve months or less. The potential loss in fair value at December 31, 2007, for such contracts resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in all foreign currency exchange rates is approximately $5 million. This loss would be mitigated by corresponding gains on the underlying exposures. 41 Table of Contents 
 
