Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K (Annual Report). This Annual Report contains certain statements that are forward looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Annual Report. See Risk Factors and Forward looking Statements. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Teradata provides data warehousing solutions for customers worldwide that combine software (including the Teradata database software and tools, data mining and analytical applications), hardware and related consulting and support services. These solutions can also include third party products and services from other leading technology and service partners. Our solutions enable customers to integrate detailed enterprise wide data such as customer, financial and operational data into a single data warehouse and provide the analytical capabilities to transform that data into useful information. As a result, customers have a consistent, accurate view of their data and businesses, which gives them more accurate, insightful and timely information when and where they need it so they can make better and faster decisions. This approach provides customers with better insight, faster access to new analytics and less redundancy within their information technology infrastructure so they can maximize business value while minimizing their total cost of ownership. Our data warehousing technologies provide a high level of performance, scalability, availability and manageability for strategic and operational analytic requirements. Our professional service consultants combine a proven methodology, deep industry expertise and years of hands on experience to help clients quickly capture business value while minimizing risk. Our customer services professionals provide a single source of support services to allow customers to maximize use and fully leverage the value of their investments in data warehousing. Through active enterprise intelligence, Teradata is extending the use of traditional enterprise data warehousing (EDW) by integrating advanced analytics into enterprise business processes, allowing companies to combine the analysis of current and historical data so operations personnel can make decisions at the point of contact or service and take action as events occur. On August 27, 2007, the Board of Directors of NCR Corporation, the Companys former parent, approved the separation of NCR into two independent, publicly traded companies through the distribution of 100% of its Teradata data warehousing business to shareholders of NCR (the Separation). In 2008, Teradata launched a new family of data warehouse offerings, now also providing customers with the ability to use Teradata for point solutions or data marts, in addition to our core EDW technology. Teradata offers data warehousing solutions to many major industries, including banking/financial services, entertainment (including gaming and media), government, insurance and healthcare, manufacturing, retail, telecommunications, transportation and travel. Teradata delivers its solutions primarily through direct sales channels, as well as through alliances with system integrators, other independent software vendors, value added resellers and distributors. We deliver our solutions to customers on a global basis, and organize our operations in the following three regions which are also our reportable segments: North America and Latin America (Americas), Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), and Asia Pacific and Japan (APJ). 25 Table of Contents 2008 FINANCIAL OVERVIEW As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following are the financial highlights for 2008: Revenue increased 4% in 2008 from 2007, with growth in our services businesses offset somewhat by lower product revenue. Gross margin was 53.9% in 2008, relatively unchanged from 2007. Operating income was $333 million in 2008, up from $320 million in 2007. Operating income in 2008 included incremental costs of $29 million associated with Teradata operating as an independent, publicly traded company as well as $10 million of investment in new sales territories, while the operating income for 2007 included $17 million of Separation related expenses and $8 million of recurring, incremental independent company costs. Net income of $250 million in 2008 increased from $200 million in 2007. Net income per common share (diluted) of $1.39 in 2008 compared to $1.10 in 2007. Net income for 2008 benefited from a lower tax rate of 26.0% in 2008, compared to 37.9% in 2007. STRATEGY OVERVIEW Teradata is in a leadership position to help companies manage the continual increases in data volume and complexity and gain a competitive advantage. We have four key initiatives underway to broaden our position in the market and take advantage of this opportunity. These initiatives include continuing to: Increase our market coverage through additional sales territories (hiring sales account executives as well as technology and industry consultants), Invest to extend Teradatas core technology and expand our family of compatible data warehouse platforms to address multiple market segments, Differentiate Teradata technology and driving platform demand by delivering services that enable customers to achieve best in class analytics, and Invest in partners to increase the number of solutions available on Teradata platforms, to provide more market coverage and to maximize customer value. Further discussion of our business strategy is included in the section entitled Business included in Item 1 of this Annual Report and incorporated herein by reference. FUTURE TRENDS We believe that demand for our solutions will continue to increase due to the continued increase in data volumes, the scale and complexity of business requirements, and the growing use of new data elements and more near real time analytics over time. The adoption by customers of more near real time analysis for enterprise intelligence is driving more applications, usage and capacity. Recently, the U.S. and global economies have experienced a significant downturn driven by a financial and credit crisis that could continue to challenge such economies for some period of time, and may have a negative effect on our business. We have seen a lengthening of the sales cycle for enterprise data warehousing solutions as a result of closer scrutiny and tighter review processes for larger capital expenditures during 2008; however, we anticipate an opportunity for shorter sales cycles for our new purpose built data warehouse appliance platforms. The size, timing and contracted terms of large customer orders for our products and services can impact, both positively and negatively, our long term operating results. In addition to the uncertainty created by the economic environment, 26 Table of Contents Teradata expects approximately 4 percentage points of negative impact from currency translation on its reported revenue and a corresponding currency impact on operating income, based on currency rates as of February 9, 2009. While macroeconomic challenges and fluctuations in the information technology environment do occur, our long term outlook remains positive. We did not experience significant changes in 2008 to competitive and or technological pricing trends, although there is a risk that pricing pressure could occur in the future. We continue to be committed to new product development and achieving maximum yield from our research and development spending and resources, which are intended to drive revenue growth, as evidenced by the recent expansion of our purpose built Teradata Platform Family. We also continue to evaluate opportunities to increase our market coverage and are committed to continuing to expand our sales territories, among other things, to drive future revenue growth. Given the length of sales cycles in the data warehouse market, new sales account territories typically take a year or more, on average, to become productive. During 2009, we plan to actively scrutinize our overall selling expense, including monitoring the pace of adding new sales territories as well as tightly managing our professional services costs structure in an effort to keep such cost in line with revenue trends. RESULTS FROM OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2008, 2007 AND 2006 In millions 2008 % ofRevenue 2007 % ofRevenue 2006 % ofRevenue Product revenue $ 849 48.2 % $ 884 51.9 % $ 807 52.2 % Service revenue 913 51.8 % 818 48.1 % 740 47.8 % Total revenue 1,762 100 % 1,702 100 % 1,547 100 % Gross margin Product gross margin 547 64.4 % 572 64.7 % 518 64.2 % Service gross margin 402 44.0 % 344 42.1 % 311 42.0 % Total gross margin 949 53.9 % 916 53.8 % 829 53.6 % Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses 508 28.8 % 470 27.6 % 410 26.5 % Research and development expenses 108 6.1 % 126 7.4 % 117 7.6 % Total expenses 616 35.0 % 596 35.0 % 527 34.1 % Operating income $ 333 18.9 % $ 320 18.8 % $ 302 19.5 % Revenue Teradata revenue increased 4% in 2008 from 2007. The revenue growth included a net benefit of 2% from foreign currency fluctuations. Product revenue decreased 4% in 2008 from 2007, due to a lengthening of sales cycles and the general downturn in the global economy. Service revenue increased 12% in 2008 from 2007, driven by a 17% increase in maintenance revenue and an 8% increase in professional and installation services revenue, as compared to 2007. Maintenance revenues benefited from product expansion, including the full year impact of the increase in product revenues from 2006 to 2007. Teradatas total revenue increased 10% in 2007 from 2006. The total revenue increase included a net benefit of 2% from foreign currency fluctuations. Product revenue increased 10% in 2007 from 2006, led by a 36% increase in the APJ region and a 14% increase in the EMEA region. Service revenue increased 11% in 2007 from 2006, driven by strong growth in both professional services and maintenance services. Gross Margin Gross margin was 53.9% in 2008, relatively unchanged from 2007. Product gross margin decreased slightly to 64.4% in 2008 from 64.7% in 2007 with an adverse deal mix offset in part by the positive impact of currency translation on international product revenue. The term deal mix refers to the revenue mix of our product sales consummated in a particular period, including both software versus hardware content, and amount and mix of third party products re sold. Services gross margin increased to 44.0% in 2008 from 42.1% in 2007, due largely to 27 Table of Contents operating leverage arising from lower headcount growth of customer service technicians when compared to revenue growth. Gross margin for 2007 was slightly higher at 53.8% compared to 53.6% in 2006. Product gross margin increased to 64.7% in 2007, compared to 64.2% in 2006. Service gross margin was 42.1% in 2007, comparable to the 42.0% in 2006. The increase in product gross margins was driven primarily in the EMEA and APJ regions, which benefited from the impact of currency translation. Total gross margin improved despite the adverse revenue mix effect of having a higher growth rate of the lower margin service revenue (as compared to product revenue) in 2007. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses, characterized as selling, general and administrative (SG&A) and research and development (R&D) expenses, were $616 million in 2008 compared to $596 million in 2007. The $38 million increase in SG&A expenses included $10 million of increased sales territory expense, as well as the negative impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The SG&A expenses for 2007 included $17 million related to the Separation from NCR. R&D expenses were lower by $18 million in 2008, compared to 2007, primarily as a result of $11 million more in capitalization of software development cost as well as reduced variable compensation programs. Operating expenses for 2008 included $19 million of recurring incremental costs associated with Teradata operating as an independent, publicly traded company. Total operating expenses were $596 million in 2007 compared to $527 million in 2006. The increase in SG&A expenses of $60 million included $17 million in Separation related expenses as well as increased selling and marketing expense (consisting of compensation expense, marketing, partnering and pre sale activities), foreign currency impact and stock based compensation. R&D expenses were $9 million higher in 2007 compared to 2006, reflecting increased investment in product development. Capitalizations of software development cost were lower by $3 million in 2007 from 2006. Operating expenses for 2007 included $6 million of recurring incremental costs subsequent to the Separation as Teradata began operating as an independent, publicly traded company. Effects of Pension and Postemployment Benefit Plans Teradatas pension and postemployment benefit expense for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 is shown below. Pension and postemployment benefit expenses incurred prior to the Separation were allocated to Teradata by NCR. In millions 2008 2007 2006 Pension expense $ 8 $ 9 $ 23 Postemployment expense 11 15 16 Total expense $ 19 $ 24 $ 39 The decrease in postemployment expense from 2007 to 2008 was primarily driven by a decrease in the Companys involuntary turnover rate assumption. The decrease in pension expense from 2006 to 2007 was due primarily to NCRs action to freeze its U.S. defined pension plans and cease the accrual of additional benefits for all participants in the U.S. plans after December 31, 2006. For additional information on pension and postemployment benefit obligations, see Note 7 Employee Benefit Plans in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report. Income Taxes The income tax rate was 26.0%, 37.9% and 36.4% for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008 included a $3 million charge to reflect a change in estimate identified in conjunction with filing the Companys 2007 U.S. federal tax return. The provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2008 is based on the pre tax earnings mix by jurisdiction of Teradata and its subsidiaries under the Companys current structure. For periods prior to the Separation, while the Company was 28 Table of Contents operated as part of NCR, Teradatas provision for income taxes in certain tax jurisdictions reflected only a portion of the tax benefits related to certain foreign operations tax net operating losses due to the uncertainty of the ultimate realization of future benefits from those losses under NCRs tax structure. The 2007 tax rate included a discrete $10 million charge, or 3.1%, related to a tax rate change in Germany, as well as a $7 million charge, or 2.2%, to correct prior period errors in the calculation of the income tax provision related to intercompany profit eliminations. As the impact of this error was not material to the then current, or any prior period, it was recorded in the second quarter of 2007. The 2007 tax rate also included a $6 million tax benefit, or 1.9%, related to the utilization of certain tax attributes associated with foreign sourced income. We currently estimate our full year effective tax rate for 2009 will be approximately 26% to 27%. For additional information on these prior year tax items, see Note 5 Income Taxes in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report. Revenue and Gross Margin by Operating Segment As described in Note 11 Segment, Other Supplemental Information and Concentrations in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Teradata manages its business in three geographic regions, which are also the Companys operating segments: (1) the Americas region; (2) the EMEA region; and (3) the APJ region. Teradata believes this format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends by operating segment. It also includes the same information that is used by Teradata management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess our financial performance. The discussion of our segment results describes the changes in results as compared to the prior year period. The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the years ended December 31: In millions 2008 % ofRevenue 2007 % ofRevenue 2006 % ofRevenue Revenue Americas $ 984 56 % $ 964 57 % $ 920 60 % EMEA 451 26 % 424 25 % 360 23 % APJ 327 18 % 314 18 % 267 17 % Total revenue 1,762 100 % 1,702 100 % 1,547 100 % Segment gross margin Americas 557 56.6 % 554 57.5 % 539 58.6 % EMEA 234 51.9 % 205 48.3 % 166 46.1 % APJ 158 48.3 % 157 50.0 % 124 46.4 % Total segment gross margin $ 949 53.9 % $ 916 53.8 % $ 829 53.6 % Americas Revenue increased 2% in 2008 from 2007, with increases in services revenue offset somewhat by lower product revenue. Gross margin decreased to 56.6% for 2008, from 57.5% in 2007, primarily driven by lower product margins as a result of the deal mix as compared to the prior period. Revenue increased 5% in 2007 from 2006, largely driven by a 9% growth in service revenue. The revenue growth included 1% of benefit from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin decreased to 57.5% for 2007, from 58.6% for 2006, driven primarily by reduced professional services margins. EMEA Revenue increased 6% in 2008 from 2007, driven by a 17% increase in maintenance revenue. The revenue growth included 3% of benefit from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin increased to 51.9% for 2008, from 48.3% in 2007, primarily driven by increased product margins. Product margins benefited from an improved deal mix and the benefit of foreign currency translation. Revenue increased 18% in 2007 from 2006, with double digit growth in both product and service revenue. The revenue growth included 7% of benefit from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin increased to 48.3% in 2007, from 46.1% in 2006, with improvements in both product and service margin. The improvement in gross margin rates was offset somewhat by the increased mix of lower margin services revenue. 29 Table of Contents APJ Revenue increased 4% in 2008 from 2007, with double digit increases in service revenue largely offset by lower product revenue as compared to a very strong performance in 2007. The revenue growth included 6% of benefit from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin decreased to 48.3% in 2008, from 50.0% in 2007. Lower gross margins were driven by the higher proportion of services revenue compared to the prior year period. This impact was partially offset by improved maintenance services margins. Revenue increased 18% in 2007 from 2006, led predominantly by a 36% growth in product revenue. The revenue growth included 3% of benefit from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin was 50.0% in 2007, up from 46.4% in 2006, driven by the greater mix of product revenue, as well as improved product margins. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Teradata ended 2008 with $442 million in cash and short term investments, a $172 million increase from December 31, 2007, even after using $176 million for repurchases of Company common stock during the year. Cash provided by operating activities increased by $53 million to $440 million in 2008. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to increased collections on accounts receivables and higher net income in 2008. These improvements were partially offset by decreased payables and accrued expenses due to the timing of related payments, decreased deferred income taxes, and a smaller increase in deferred revenue as compared to 2007. Teradatas management uses a non GAAP measure called free cash flow, which we define as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures for property and equipment, and additions to capitalized software, as one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company. Free cash flow does not have a uniform definition under GAAP; and therefore, Teradatas definition of this measure may differ from the definition used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures for, among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and repurchase of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures for the following periods: In millions 2008 2007 2006 Net income $ 250 $ 200 $ 192 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 440 $ 387 $ 219 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (19 ) (50 ) (20 ) Additions to capitalized software (52 ) (45 ) (46 ) Free cash flow $ 369 $ 292 $ 153 Free cash flow as a percentage of net income 148 % 146 % 80 % Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. These other investing activities primarily consisted of purchases and sales of short term investments and an immaterial acquisition consummated during the first quarter of 2008. Teradatas short term investments consist of bank time deposits with original maturities between three months and one year. Teradatas financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 consisted primarily of cash outflows from our share repurchase activities. During 2008 the Company purchased 8.5 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $20.67 under the two share repurchase programs authorized by our Board of Directors in 2008. The first program (the dilution offset program) authorizes the Company to purchase Teradata common stock to the extent of cash received from the exercise of stock options and the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). The second program (the 30 Table of Contents general share repurchase program) authorizes the Company to repurchase an additional $250 million of the Companys outstanding shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had $82 million of authorization remaining under the $250 million general share repurchase program to repurchase outstanding shares of Teradata common stock. Our share repurchase activity depends on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for capital investments, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options were $8 million in 2008. These proceeds are included in Other Financing Activities, Net in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Prior to the second quarter of 2008, stock repurchased through the share repurchase programs was retired. Beginning in the second quarter of 2008, stock repurchased through the share repurchase programs was held as treasury stock. On October 1, 2007, the Company entered into a five year, $300 million unsecured revolving credit facility. This credit facility contains certain representations and warranties; conditions; affirmative, negative and financial covenants; and events of default customary for such facilities. For most borrowings, Teradata would anticipate choosing a floating rate based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). If the facility had been fully drawn at December 31, 2008, the spread over the LIBOR would have been 32 basis points (for an interest rate of 2.13%, assuming a 6 month borrowing term) given Teradatas leverage ratio at that date. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under this revolving credit facility and was in compliance with all covenants. Management believes current cash and short term investment resources, cash flows from operations and its $300 million credit facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, and other financing requirements for the foreseeable future. The Company uses a number of financial instruments to hold its cash, cash equivalents and short term investments, including bank deposits, money market funds and government treasury instruments. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise to comply with the terms of its credit facility, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. In the normal course of business, we enter into various contractual obligations that impact, or could impact, our liquidity. The following table and discussion outlines our material obligations at December 31, 2008, with projected cash payments in the periods shown: In millions TotalAmounts 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 andThereafter Lease obligations $ 58 $ 16 $ 23 $ 13 $ 6 Purchase obligations 11 5 5 1 Total lease and purchase obligations $ 69 $ 21 $ 28 $ 14 $ 6 Our lease obligations in the above table include Company only facilities in various domestic and international locations. Purchase obligations are committed purchase orders and other contractual commitments for goods and services, and include contractual payments in relation to service agreements with various vendors for ongoing service parts logistics, payroll and tax services. Unrecognized tax benefits under FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48), Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, are not included in the table above as such amounts are not material. We also have product warranties and guarantees to third parties, as well as postemployment and international pension obligations that may affect future cash flow. These items are not included in the table of obligations shown above. Product warranties and third party guarantees are described in detail in Note 9 Commitments and Contingencies in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Postemployment and pension obligations are described in detail in Note 7 Employee Benefit Plans in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 31 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities (SPE), which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or for other contractually narrow or limited purposes. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the paragraphs below. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit Committee of Teradatas Board of Directors. For additional information regarding our accounting policies and other disclosures required by GAAP, see Note 1 Description of Business, Separation, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition Teradatas solution offerings typically include hardware, software, software subscriptions, maintenance support services and other professional consulting, implementation and installation services. Teradata records revenue when it is realized, or realizable, and earned. Teradata considers these requirements met when: (a) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (b) the products or services have been delivered to the customer; (c) the sales price is fixed or determinable and free of contingencies or significant uncertainties; and (d) collectibility is reasonably assured. Our judgment is required in assessing the probability of collection and that fees are fixed or determinable, which is generally based on evaluation of customer specific information, historical collection experience and economic market conditions. If Teradata cannot conclude that a fee is fixed or determinable at the outset of an arrangement, revenue is deferred until the determination is made that the arrangement fee is fixed or determinable. If market conditions decline, or if the financial condition of our customers deteriorates, we may be unable to determine that collectibility is probable, and we could be required to defer the recognition of revenue until we receive customer payments. Teradata reports revenue net of any taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue producing transactions. Teradata delivers its solutions primarily through direct sales channels, as well as through alliances with system integrators, other independent software vendors and distributors, and value added resellers (collectively referred to as resellers). In assessing whether the sales price to a reseller is fixed or determinable, the Company considers, among other things, past business practices with the reseller, the resellers operating history, payment terms, return rights and the financial wherewithal of the reseller. When we determine that the contract fee to a reseller is not fixed or determinable, we account for that transaction upon sell through to the end customer. Substantially all of Teradatas solutions contain software that is more than incidental to the hardware and services. The typical solution requires no significant production, modification or customization of the software or hardware, and the software is not essential to the functionality of the hardware. Revenue related to software and software 32 Table of Contents related elements are recognized under Statement of Position 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition. Revenue for hardware and related installation services is recognized under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104 (SAB 104), Revenue Recognition. For software and software related elements, Teradata allocates revenue to each software element based upon its fair value as determined by vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) using the residual method as discussed below. VSOE of fair value is based upon the normal pricing and discounting practices for those products and services when sold separately. For non software related elements, fair value is based upon Verifiable Objective Evidence (VOE). VOE is based on the price when products or services are sold separately or the price other companies charge when selling a similar product separately. These elements often involve delivery or performance at different periods of time. Revenue for software is generally recognized upon delivery with the hardware using the residual method described below. Revenue for software subscriptions, which provide for unspecified upgrades or enhancements on a when and if available basis, is recognized straight line over the term of the subscription arrangement. Revenue for maintenance support services is also recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the contract. Revenue for other professional consulting, implementation and installation services is recognized as services are provided. In certain instances, customer acceptance is required prior to the passage of title and risk of loss of the delivered products. In such cases, no revenue is recognized until the customer acceptance is obtained. Delivery and acceptance generally occur in the same reporting period. For arrangements involving multiple deliverables, where the deliverables include software and non software products and services, Teradata applies the provisions of Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 00 21, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables, to separate the deliverables and allocate the total arrangement consideration. Accordingly, Teradata evaluates each deliverable to determine whether it represents a separate unit of accounting based on the following criteria: (a) whether the delivered item has value to the customer on a stand alone basis; (b) whether there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered items; and (c) if the contract includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item, delivery or performance of the undelivered items is considered probable and substantially in the control of Teradata. If objective and reliable evidence of fair value exists for all units of accounting in the arrangement, revenue is allocated to each unit of accounting based on relative fair values. Each unit of accounting is then accounted for under the applicable revenue recognition guidance. In situations where there is objective and reliable evidence of fair value for all undelivered elements, but not for delivered elements, the residual method is used to allocate the arrangements consideration. Teradata does not typically have VSOE of fair value for its software products. Therefore, in a substantial majority of Teradata arrangements, the residual method is used to allocate arrangement consideration. Under the residual method, the fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred and accounted for under the applicable revenue recognition guidance, and the remaining portion of the arrangement fee is allocated to the delivered elements and is recognized as revenue. If we cannot determine or maintain VSOE for an undelivered element, it could impact the timing of revenues as all or a portion of the revenue from the multiple element arrangement may need to be deferred. Revenue recognition for complex contractual arrangements requires a greater degree of judgment, including a review of specific contracts, past experience, creditworthiness of customers, international laws and other factors. We must also apply judgment in determining all elements of the arrangement, and in determining the fair value of each element, considering the price charged for each product, and applicable renewal rates for services. Changes in judgments about these factors could impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized between periods. Capitalized Software We account for research and development costs in accordance with applicable accounting pronouncements, including Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 2 (SFAS 2), Accounting for Research and Development Costs, and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 86 (SFAS 86), Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed. SFAS 86 specifies that costs incurred internally in researching and developing a computer software product should be charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established. Technological feasibility is established when planning, designing and initial coding and testing activities that are necessary to establish the product can be produced to meet its design specifications are complete. In the absence of a detailed program design, a working model is used to establish technological feasibility. Once technological feasibility is established, all development costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological 33 Table of Contents feasibility of a product is established. The timing of when various research and development projects become technologically feasible or ready for release can cause fluctuation in the amount of research and development costs that are expensed or capitalized in any given period, thus impacting our reported profitability for that period. Income Taxes We account for income taxes in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 (SFAS 109), Accounting for Income Taxes, which recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the enacted tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the deferred tax assets or liabilities are expected to be settled or realized. Teradatas operating results were included in NCRs income tax returns for periods prior to the Separation. The provision for income tax in Teradatas consolidated financial statements prior to the Separation was determined on a separate return basis. The Companys intention is to permanently reinvest its foreign earnings outside of the United States. As a result, the effective tax rates in the periods presented after Separation are largely based upon the forecasted pre tax earnings mix and allocation of certain expenses in various taxing jurisdictions where the Company conducts its business that apply a broad range of statutory income tax rates. The Company has not provided federal income taxes on earnings of approximately $266 million from its foreign subsidiaries. We adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48), Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, on January 1, 2007. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes by prescribing thresholds and attributes for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Under FIN 48, we may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. We record any interest and or penalties related to FIN 48 in the income tax expense line on our Consolidated Statements of Income. The adoption of FIN 48 did not impact our results of operations or net assets. In accordance with the Tax Sharing Agreement between NCR and Teradata, NCR is responsible for all taxes reported on any separate or joint return of NCR, which may also include Teradata for periods prior to the Separation. As of December 31, 2008, the Company has recorded $1 million of unrecognized tax benefits. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. We had zero and $5 million of valuation allowances as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Share based Compensation We account for employee share based compensation costs in accordance with Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004) (SFAS 123R), Share Based Payment, which requires us to measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize compensation expense over the service period for which awards are expected to vest. We utilize the Black Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of stock based compensation at the date of grant, which requires the input of subjective assumptions, including expected volatility and expected term. Further, as required under SFAS 123R, we estimate forfeitures for options granted which are not expected to vest. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent that actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period in which estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures including types of awards and historical experience. Actual results and future changes in estimates may differ substantially from our current estimates. In addition, we have performance based awards that vest only if specific performance conditions are satisfied, typically at the end of an awards three year performance period. The number of shares that will be earned can vary based on actual performance. No shares will vest if the threshold objectives are not met. In the event the objectives are exceeded additional shares will vest up to a maximum payout. The cost of these awards is expensed over the 34 Table of Contents performance period based upon managements estimate and analysis of the probability of meeting the performance criteria. Because the actual number of shares to be awarded is not known until the end of the performance period, the actual compensation expense related to these awards could differ from our current expectations. Pension and Postemployment Benefits We account for defined benefit pension plans in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87 (SFAS 87), Employers Accounting for Pensions, which requires that amounts recognized in financial statements be determined on an actuarial basis. Our postemployment plans are accounted for in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 112 (SFAS 112), Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits. Beginning December 31, 2006, we also apply Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158 (SFAS 158), Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, which amends each of these two standards, primarily relative to balance sheet presentation and disclosure requirements. Prior to the Separation, we accounted for pension and postemployment benefit costs under the multiemployer plan approach. We have pension and postemployment benefit costs and credits, which are developed from actuarial valuations. Actuarial assumptions attempt to anticipate future events and are used in calculating the expense and liability relating to these plans. These factors include assumptions we make about interest rates, expected investment return on plan assets, total and involuntary turnover rates, and rates of future compensation increases. In addition, our actuarial consultants also use subjective factors such as withdrawal rates and mortality rates to develop our valuations. We review and update these assumptions on an annual basis at the beginning of each fiscal year. We are required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. The actuarial assumptions that we use may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates, or longer or shorter life spans of participants. These differences may result in a significant impact to the measurement of our pension and postemployment benefit obligations, and to the amount of pension and postemployment benefits expense we have recorded or may record. For example, as of December 31, 2008, a one half percent increase/decrease in the discount rate would change the projected benefit obligation of our pension plans by $3 million, and a one percent increase/decrease in our involuntary turnover assumption would change our postemployment benefit obligation by $18 million. At December 31, 2008, we reduced the involuntary turnover assumption used in calculating our postemployment benefit obligation from 3% to 2%, to reflect the Companys prior experience. This change in assumption reduced our postemployment benefit obligation recognized on our balance sheet by $18 million and is expected to reduce 2009 postemployment expense by approximately $5 million. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS A discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements is described in Note 1 Description of Business, Separation, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report, and we incorporate such discussion by reference. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company employs a foreign currency hedging strategy to limit potential losses in earnings or cash flows from adverse foreign currency exchange rate movements. Foreign currency exposures arise from transactions denominated in a currency other than the Companys functional currency and from foreign denominated revenue and profit translated into U.S. dollars. The primary currencies to which the Company is exposed include the euro, the British pound, the Japanese yen, the Australian dollar, and other Asian and South American currencies. Exposures are hedged with foreign currency forward contracts with maturity dates of twelve months or less. The potential loss in fair value at December 31, 2008, for such contracts resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in all foreign currency exchange rates is approximately $5 million. This loss would be mitigated by corresponding gains on the underlying exposures. For additional information regarding the Companys foreign currency hedging strategy, see Note 8 Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report. 35 Table of Contents 
 
