Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K (Annual Report). This Annual Report contains certain statements that are forward looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Annual Report. See Risk Factors and Forward looking Statements. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Teradata provides data warehousing solutions for customers worldwide that combine software (including the Teradata database software and tools, data mining and analytical applications), hardware and related consulting and support services. These solutions can also include third party products and services from other leading technology and service partners. Our solutions enable customers to integrate detailed enterprise wide data such as customer, financial and operational data into a single data warehouse and provide the analytical capabilities to transform that data into useful information. These solutions allow customers to have a consistent, accurate view of their data and businesses, with more accurate, insightful and timely information when and where they need it to make better and faster decisions. This approach provides customers with better insight, faster access to new analytics and less redundancy within their information technology (IT) infrastructure so they can maximize business value while minimizing their total cost of ownership. Our data warehousing technologies provide a high level of performance, scalability, availability and manageability for strategic and operational analytic requirements. Our IT consultants combine a proven methodology, deep industry expertise and years of hands on experience to help clients quickly capture business value while minimizing risk. Our customer services professionals provide a single source of support services to allow customers to maximize use and fully leverage the value of their investments in data warehousing. Through active enterprise intelligence, Teradata is extending the use of traditional enterprise data warehousing (EDW) by integrating advanced analytics into enterprise business processes, allowing companies to combine the analysis of current and historical data so operations personnel can make decisions at the point of contact or service and take action as events occur. In 2008, Teradata launched an expanded family of data warehouse offerings, now also providing customers with the ability to use Teradata for point solutions or data marts, in addition to our core EDW technology. Teradata offers data warehousing solutions to many major industries, including banking/financial services, entertainment (including gaming and media), government, insurance and healthcare, manufacturing, retail, telecommunications, transportation and travel. Teradata delivers its solutions primarily through direct sales channels, as well as through alliances with system integrators, other independent software vendors, value added resellers and distributors. We deliver our solutions to customers on a global basis, and organize our operations in the following three regions which are also our reportable segments: North America and Latin America (Americas), Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), and Asia Pacific and Japan (APJ). 25 Table of Contents 2009 FINANCIAL OVERVIEW As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following are the financial highlights for 2009: Revenue decreased 3% in 2009 from 2008, with declines in product revenue offset somewhat by higher service revenue. Gross margin was 54.9% in 2009, up from 53.9% in 2008, largely driven by improvements in our consulting and installation related services (consulting) business. Operating income was $338 million in 2009, up from $333 million in 2008. Operating income in 2009 benefited from lower Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) expenses and improved consulting services margins, offset somewhat by the impact of lower product revenue and higher Research and Development (R&D) expenses. Net income of $254 million in 2009 increased from $250 million in 2008. Net income per common share (diluted) of $1.46 in 2009 compared to $1.39 in 2008. In addition to the items discussed above, net income for 2009 benefited from a lower tax rate of 24% in 2009, compared to 26% in 2008. STRATEGY OVERVIEW Teradata is in a leadership position to help companies manage growing data volumes and complexity to gain business insight and competitive advantage. We have four key initiatives underway to broaden our position in the market and take advantage of this opportunity. These initiatives include continuing to: Increase our market coverage through additional sales territories (hiring incremental sales account executives as well as technology and industry consultants), Invest to extend Teradatas core technology and expand our family of compatible data warehouse platforms to address multiple market segments, Differentiate Teradata and drive platform demand by delivering services that enable customers to achieve best in class analytics, and Invest in partners to increase the number of solutions available on Teradata platforms to maximize customer value, and to provide more market coverage. Further discussion of our business strategy is included in the section entitled Business included in Item 1 of this Annual Report and incorporated herein by reference. FUTURE TRENDS We believe that demand for our solutions will continue to increase due to the continued increase in data volumes, the scale and complexity of business requirements, and the growing use of new data elements and more near real time analytics over time. The adoption by customers of more near real time analysis for enterprise intelligence is driving more applications, usage and capacity. The United States and other international economies, significant to Teradatas sales efforts, experienced severe economic recessions in 2009, which had an adverse impact on IT budgets and capital spending trends, and contributed to lengthened sales cycles for acquiring Teradata products and services. While recently there have been some signs of economic recovery, the speed and scope of such recovery, as well as the related impact on our current and potential customers, remains unclear. The size, timing and contracted terms of large customer orders for our products and services can impact, both positively and negatively, our long term operating results. 26 Table of Contents As a portion of the Companys operations and revenue occur outside the United States, and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In 2010, Teradata expects approximately one to two percentage points of benefit from currency translation on its reported revenue and a corresponding currency impact on operating income, based on currency rates as of January 27, 2010. While macroeconomic challenges and fluctuations in the IT environment do occur, our long term outlook remains positive. We did not experience significant changes in 2009 due to competitive and or pricing trends for our EDW or appliance solutions, although there is a risk that pricing pressure for either of these solutions could occur in the future. We continue to be committed to new product development and achieving a responsive yield from our research and development spending and resources, which are intended to drive future demand. We also continue to evaluate opportunities to increase our market coverage and are committed to continuing to increase our number of sales territories, among other things, to drive future revenue growth. Given the length of sales cycles in the data warehouse market, new sales account territories typically take more than two years, on average, to become productive. RESULTS FROM OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009, 2008 AND 2007 In millions 2009 % ofRevenue 2008 % ofRevenue 2007 % ofRevenue Product revenue $ 772 45.2 % $ 849 48.2 % $ 884 51.9 % Service revenue 937 54.8 % 913 51.8 % 818 48.1 % Total revenue 1,709 100 % 1,762 100 % 1,702 100 % Gross margin Product gross margin 503 65.2 % 547 64.4 % 572 64.7 % Service gross margin 435 46.4 % 402 44.0 % 344 42.1 % Total gross margin 938 54.9 % 949 53.9 % 916 53.8 % Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses 483 28.3 % 508 28.8 % 470 27.6 % Research and development expenses 117 6.8 % 108 6.1 % 126 7.4 % Total operating expenses 600 35.1 % 616 35.0 % 596 35.0 % Operating income $ 338 19.8 % $ 333 18.9 % $ 320 18.8 % Revenue Teradata revenue declined 3% in 2009 from 2008. The revenue decline included a negative effect of 2% from foreign currency fluctuations. Product revenue decreased 9% in 2009 from 2008, due to the difficult global economic environment, which resulted in reduced capital spending by companies. Service revenue increased 3% in 2009 from 2008, driven by increases in both consulting and maintenance services. Teradata revenue increased 4% in 2008 from 2007. The revenue growth included a net benefit of 2% from foreign currency fluctuations. Product revenue decreased 4% in 2008 from 2007, due to a lengthening of sales cycles and the general downturn in the global economy. Service revenue increased 12% in 2008 from 2007, driven by a 17% increase in maintenance revenue and an 8% increase in consulting services revenue, as compared to 2007. Maintenance revenues benefited from product expansion, including the full year impact of the increase in product revenues from 2006 to 2007. Gross Margin Gross margin was 54.9% in 2009, up from 53.9% in 2008. Product gross margin increased to 65.2% from 64.4% in 2008 with a positive deal mix offset in part by the impact of increased capitalized software amortization against lower product revenue, as well as the adverse impact of currency translation on international product revenue. The term deal mix refers to the revenue mix of our product sales consummated in a particular period, including both 27 Table of Contents software versus hardware content and mix, and amount and mix of third party products re sold. Due to the timing of capitalizations and amortizations of software development costs and our strategic initiative of increasing our research and development investments, we saw an increase in the balance of capitalized software development costs on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2009. Consistent with the second half of 2009, we may have an increase of approximately $11 million in amortization of these capitalized software development costs in 2010, which will be reflected as a cost of product revenue. Services gross margin increased to 46.4% in 2009 from 44.0% in 2008, due to improvements in our consulting services business which benefited from improved utilization of internal resources, lower outside contractor costs, lower overhead costs and lower travel expenses. The improvement in product and services margins more than offset a lower proportion (mix) of product revenue, in relation to services revenue, as compared to the prior year. Gross margin was 53.9% in 2008, relatively unchanged from 2007. Product gross margin decreased slightly to 64.4% in 2008 from 64.7% in 2007 with an adverse deal mix offset in part by the positive impact of currency translation on international product revenue. Services gross margin increased to 44.0% in 2008 from 42.1% in 2007, due largely to operating leverage arising from lower headcount growth of customer service technicians when compared to revenue growth. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses, including SG&A and R&D expenses, were $600 million in 2009 compared to $616 million in 2008. A $25 million decrease in SG&A expenses was driven by the positive impact from foreign currency fluctuations along with lower expenses for travel and other discretionary costs, sales commissions and certain outside services, which more than offset the expense impact of increased expense from the increased number of sales territories. The $9 million increase in R&D expenses was driven by higher salary, benefits and variable incentive compensation expenses given achievement of performance targets, hiring and turnover activity, as well as increased materials spending for product development, which more than offset a $6 million increase in capitalization of software development cost. Total operating expenses were $616 million in 2008 compared to $596 million in 2007. The $38 million increase in SG&A expenses included increased sales territory expense, as well as the negative impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The SG&A expenses for 2007 included $17 million related to the separation of Teradata from NCR (the Separation). R&D expenses were lower by $18 million in 2008, compared to 2007, primarily as a result of $11 million more in capitalization of software development cost as well as reduced variable compensation programs. Operating expenses for 2008 included $19 million of recurring incremental costs associated with Teradata operating as an independent, publicly traded company. Effects of Pension and Postemployment Benefit Plans Teradatas pension and postemployment benefit expense for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is shown below. Pension and postemployment benefit expenses incurred prior to the Separation were allocated to Teradata by NCR. In millions 2009 2008 2007 Pension expense $ 9 $ 8 $ 9 Postemployment expense 6 11 15 Total expense $ 15 $ 19 $ 24 The decrease in postemployment expense from 2007 to 2009 was primarily driven by decreases in the Companys involuntary turnover rate assumption. Prior to the Separation, the Companys involuntary turnover rate assumption was combined with NCR. Post Separation, the involuntary turnover rate assumption more clearly reflects the rate experienced/anticipated as a separate company. For additional information on pension and postemployment benefit obligations, see Note 7 Employee Benefit Plans in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report. 28 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense) Other income and expense was $4 million of net expense in 2009, down from $5 million of net income in 2008. The decrease was driven by lower interest income given the lower interest rate environment, as well as a $5 million charge in 2009 to write down the value of an equity investment, compared to $3 million of such charges in 2008. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 24%, 26% and 38% for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 included a net tax benefit for a recurring state and local income tax credit that was not recognized in the 2008 income tax rate. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008 included a $3 million charge to reflect a change in estimate identified in conjunction with filing the Companys 2007 U.S. federal tax return. We currently estimate our full year effective tax rate for 2010 to be approximately 24% to 25.5%. This estimate takes into consideration, among other things, the forecasted earnings mix by jurisdiction for 2010, the uncertainty surrounding the reinstatement in 2010 of the U.S. federal R&D Tax Credit, which expired as of December 31, 2009, and the realization of approximately $6 million in tax benefit associated with the recognition of certain foreign net operating loss carryforwards arising from the recent completion of a pre Separation audit in the United Kingdom. For additional information, see Note 5 Income Taxes in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in the Annual Report. The provision for income taxes for the years after the Separation is based on the pre tax earnings mix by jurisdiction of Teradata and its subsidiaries under the Companys current structure. For the period prior to the Separation, while the Company was operated as part of NCR, Teradatas provision for income taxes in certain tax jurisdictions reflected only a portion of the tax benefits related to certain foreign operations tax net operating losses due to the uncertainty of the ultimate realization of future benefits from those losses under NCRs tax structure. The 2007 tax rate included a discrete $10 million charge, or 3.1%, related to a tax rate change in Germany, as well as a $7 million charge, or 2.2%, to correct prior period errors in the calculation of the income tax provision related to intercompany profit eliminations. As the impact of this error was not material to the then current period, or any prior period, it was recorded in the second quarter of 2007. The 2007 tax rate also included a $6 million tax benefit, or 1.9%, related to the utilization of certain tax attributes associated with foreign sourced income. For additional information on these prior year tax items, see Note 5 Income Taxes in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report. Revenue and Gross Margin by Operating Segment As described in Note 11 Segment, Other Supplemental Information and Concentrations in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Teradata manages its business in three geographic regions, which are also the Companys operating segments: (1) the Americas region; (2) the EMEA region; and (3) the APJ region. Teradata believes this format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends by operating segment. It also includes the same information that is used by Teradata management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess our financial performance. The discussion of our segment results describes the changes in results as compared to the prior year period. 29 Table of Contents The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the years ended December 31: In millions 2009 % ofRevenue 2008 % ofRevenue 2007 % ofRevenue Revenue Americas $ 981 57 % $ 984 56 % $ 964 57 % EMEA 430 25 % 451 26 % 424 25 % APJ 298 18 % 327 18 % 314 18 % Total revenue 1,709 100 % 1,762 100 % 1,702 100 % Segment gross margin Americas 570 58.1 % 557 56.6 % 554 57.5 % EMEA 230 53.5 % 234 51.9 % 205 48.3 % APJ 138 46.3 % 158 48.3 % 157 50.0 % Total segment gross margin $ 938 54.9 % $ 949 53.9 % $ 916 53.8 % Americas Revenue was roughly unchanged in 2009 from 2008, with a 7% decrease in product revenue offset by a 7% increase in services revenue. Gross margin increased to 58.1% in 2009, from 56.6% in 2008, driven by improvements in the consulting services business and a smaller increase in product gross margin rate due to a positive deal mix as compared to the prior year. These improvements were offset in part by the impact of a lower proportion of product revenue, in relation to services revenue, as compared to the prior year. Revenue increased 2% in 2008 from 2007, with increases in services revenue offset somewhat by lower product revenue. Gross margin decreased to 56.6% for 2008, from 57.5% in 2007, primarily driven by lower product margins as a result of the deal mix as compared to the prior period. EMEA Revenue decreased 5% in 2009 from 2008, driven by a 6% decrease in product revenue and a 3% decrease in service revenue. The revenue decline included 7% of adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin increased to 53.5% in 2009, from 51.9% in 2008, driven by improvements in consulting services. Revenue increased 6% in 2008 from 2007, driven by a 17% increase in maintenance revenue. The revenue growth included 3% of benefit from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin increased to 51.9% for 2008, from 48.3% in 2007, primarily driven by increased product margins. Product margins benefited from an improved deal mix and the benefit of foreign currency translation. APJ Revenue decreased 9% in 2009 from 2008, driven by a 22% decrease in product revenue. The revenue decline included 1% of benefit from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin declined to 46.3% in 2009, from 48.3% in 2008, driven by the impact of the lower product revenue as well as lower maintenance margins, offset in part by an improvement in consulting services margins. Revenue increased 4% in 2008 from 2007, with double digit increases in service revenue largely offset by lower product revenue as compared to a very strong performance in 2007. The revenue growth included 6% of benefit from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin decreased to 48.3% in 2008, from 50.0% in 2007. Lower gross margins were driven by the higher proportion of services revenue compared to the prior year. This impact was partially offset by improved maintenance services margins. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Teradata ended 2009 with $661 million in cash and cash equivalents, a $219 million increase from the December 31, 2008 balance of cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments, even after using approximately $174 million for repurchases of Company common stock during the year. Cash provided by operating activities increased by $15 million to $455 million in 2009. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to an increase in current payables and accrued expenses, as well as a positive change in other assets and liabilities as compared to 2008. These improvements were partially offset by a $4 million decrease in deferred revenue in 2009 compared to a $13 million increase in 2008, as well as a smaller reduction in receivables in 2009 as compared to 2008. 30 Table of Contents Teradatas management uses a non GAAP measure called free cash flow, which we define as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures for property and equipment, and additions to capitalized software, as one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company. Free cash flow does not have a uniform definition under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP); and therefore, Teradatas definition of this measure may differ from the definition used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures for, among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and repurchase of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures for the following periods: In millions 2009 2008 2007 Net income $ 254 $ 250 $ 200 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 455 $ 440 $ 387 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (29 ) (19 ) (50 ) Additions to capitalized software (59 ) (52 ) (45 ) Free cash flow $ 367 $ 369 $ 292 Free cash flow as a percentage of net income 144 % 148 % 146 % Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. In 2009, these other investing activities primarily consisted of purchases and sales of short term investments. In 2008, other investing activities primarily consisted of purchases and sales of short term investments and an immaterial acquisition consummated during the first quarter of 2008. Teradatas short term investments consisted of bank time deposits with original maturities between three months and one year. Teradatas financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 consisted primarily of cash outflows from our share repurchase activities. The Company purchased 7.0 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $25.11 in 2009, and 8.5 million shares at an average price per share of $20.67 in 2008. Share repurchases were made under the two share repurchase programs authorized by our Board of Directors in 2008. The first program (the dilution offset program) authorizes the Company to purchase Teradata common stock to the extent of cash received from the exercise of stock options and the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to these plans. The second program (the general share repurchase program) authorizes the Company to repurchase an additional $250 million of the Companys outstanding shares of common stock. On May 4, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors authorized an additional $300 million increase to the Companys existing general share repurchase program. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had $234 million of authorization remaining on the ($250 million and $300 million) general share repurchase programs to repurchase outstanding shares of Teradata common stock. Share repurchases made by the Company are reported on a trade date basis. Our share repurchase activity depends on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for capital investments, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Subsequent to the year ended December 31, 2009, from January 1, 2010 through February 26, 2010, the Company repurchased approximately 2.4 million shares for approximately $70 million under the two existing share repurchase programs. Proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options were $25 million in 2009 and $8 million in 2008. These proceeds are included in Other Financing Activities, Net in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 31 Table of Contents Prior to the second quarter of 2008, stock repurchased through the share repurchase programs was retired. Beginning in the second quarter of 2008, stock repurchased through the share repurchase programs was held as treasury stock. On October 1, 2007, the Company entered into a five year, $300 million unsecured revolving credit facility. This credit facility contains certain representations and warranties; conditions; affirmative, negative and financial covenants; and events of default customary for such facilities. For most borrowings, Teradata would anticipate choosing a floating rate based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). If the facility had been fully drawn at December 31, 2009, the spread over the LIBOR would have been 32 basis points (for an interest rate of 0.75%, assuming a 6 month borrowing term) given Teradatas leverage ratio at that date. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under this revolving credit facility and was in compliance with all covenants. Management believes current cash and short term investment resources, cash flows from operations and its $300 million credit facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, and other financing requirements for the foreseeable future. The Company uses a number of financial instruments to hold its cash, cash equivalents and short term investments, including bank deposits, money market funds and government treasury instruments. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise to comply with the terms of its credit facility, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. In the normal course of business, we enter into various contractual obligations that impact, or could impact, our liquidity. The following table and discussion outlines our material obligations at December 31, 2009, with projected cash payments in the periods shown: In millions TotalAmounts 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 andThereafter Lease obligations $ 43 $ 15 $ 21 $ 6 $ 1 Purchase obligations 8 3 5 Total lease and purchase obligations $ 51 $ 18 $ 26 $ 6 $ 1 Our lease obligations in the above table include Company only facilities in various domestic and international locations. Purchase obligations are committed purchase orders and other contractual commitments for goods and services, and include contractual payments in relation to service agreements with various vendors for ongoing service parts logistics, payroll and other services. We also have product warranties and guarantees to third parties, as well as postemployment and international pension obligations that may affect future cash flow. These items are not included in the table of obligations shown above. Product warranties and third party guarantees are described in detail in Note 9 Commitments and Contingencies in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Postemployment and pension obligations are described in detail in Note 7 Employee Benefit Plans in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities (SPE), which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or for other contractually narrow or limited purposes. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts 32 Table of Contents of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the paragraphs below. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit Committee of Teradatas Board of Directors. For additional information regarding our accounting policies and other disclosures required by GAAP, see Note 1 Description of Business, Separation, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition Teradatas solution offerings typically include hardware, software, software subscriptions, maintenance support services and other consulting, implementation and installation services. Teradata records revenue when it is realized, or realizable, and earned. Teradata considers these requirements met when: (a) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (b) the products or services have been delivered to the customer; (c) the sales price is fixed or determinable and free of contingencies or significant uncertainties; and (d) collectibility is reasonably assured. Our judgment is required in assessing the probability of collection and that fees are fixed or determinable, which is generally based on evaluation of customer specific information, historical collection experience and economic market conditions. If Teradata cannot conclude that a fee is fixed or determinable at the outset of an arrangement, revenue is deferred until the determination is made that the arrangement fee is fixed or determinable. If market conditions decline, or if the financial condition of our customers deteriorates, we may be unable to determine that collectibility is probable, and we could be required to defer the recognition of revenue until we receive customer payments. Teradata reports revenue net of any taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue producing transactions. Teradata delivers its solutions primarily through direct sales channels, as well as through alliances with system integrators, other independent software vendors and distributors, and value added resellers (collectively referred to as resellers). In assessing whether the sales price to a reseller is fixed or determinable, the Company considers, among other things, past business practices with the reseller, the resellers operating history, payment terms, return rights and the financial wherewithal of the reseller. When we determine that the contract fee to a reseller is not fixed or determinable, we account for that transaction upon sell through to the end customer. Substantially all of Teradatas solutions contain software that is more than incidental to the hardware and services. The typical solution requires no significant production, modification or customization of the software or hardware, and the software is not essential to the functionality of the hardware. For software and software related elements, Teradata allocates revenue to each software element based upon its fair value as determined by vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) using the residual method as discussed below. VSOE of fair value is based upon the normal pricing and discounting practices for those products and services when sold separately. For non software related elements, fair value is based upon Verifiable Objective Evidence (VOE). VOE is based on the price when similar products or services are sold separately by Teradata or other companies. These elements often involve delivery or performance at different periods of time. Revenue for software is generally recognized upon delivery with the hardware using the residual method described below. Revenue for software subscriptions, which provide for unspecified upgrades or enhancements on a when and if available basis, is recognized straight line over 33 Table of Contents the term of the subscription arrangement. Revenue for maintenance support services is also recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the contract. Revenue for other consulting, implementation and installation services is recognized as services are provided. In certain instances, customer acceptance is required prior to the passage of title and risk of loss of the delivered products. In such cases, no revenue is recognized until the customer acceptance is obtained. Delivery and acceptance generally occur in the same reporting period. For arrangements involving multiple deliverables, where the deliverables include software and non software products and services, Teradata evaluates each deliverable to determine whether it represents a separate unit of accounting based on the following criteria: (a) whether the delivered item has value to the customer on a stand alone basis; (b) whether there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered items; and (c) if the contract includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item, delivery or performance of the undelivered items is considered probable and substantially in the control of Teradata. If objective and reliable evidence of fair value exists for all units of accounting in the arrangement, revenue is allocated to each unit of accounting based on relative fair values. Each unit of accounting is then accounted for under the applicable revenue recognition guidance. In situations where there is objective and reliable evidence of fair value for all undelivered elements, but not for delivered elements, the residual method is used to allocate the arrangements consideration. Teradata does not typically have VSOE of fair value for its software products. Therefore, in a substantial majority of Teradata arrangements, the residual method is used to allocate arrangement consideration. Under the residual method, the fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred and accounted for under the applicable revenue recognition guidance, and the remaining portion of the arrangement fee is allocated to the delivered elements and is recognized as revenue. If we cannot determine or maintain VSOE for an undelivered element, it could impact the timing of revenues as all or a portion of the revenue from the multiple element arrangement may need to be deferred. Revenue recognition for complex contractual arrangements requires a greater degree of judgment, including a review of specific contracts, past experience, creditworthiness of customers, international laws and other factors. We must also apply judgment in determining all elements of the arrangement, and in determining the fair value of each element, considering the price charged for each product, and applicable renewal rates for services. Changes in judgments about these factors could impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized between periods. Capitalized Software Under GAAP, costs incurred internally in researching and developing a computer software product should be charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established. Technological feasibility is established when planning, designing and initial coding activities that are necessary to establish the product can be produced to meet its design specifications are complete. In the absence of a detailed program design, a working model is used to establish technological feasibility. Once technological feasibility is established, all development costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. The timing of when various research and development projects become technologically feasible or ready for release can cause fluctuation in the amount of research and development costs that are expensed or capitalized in any given period, thus impacting our reported profitability for that period. Income Taxes In accounting for income taxes, we recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the enacted tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the deferred tax assets or liabilities are expected to be settled or realized. Teradatas operating results were included in NCRs income tax returns for the period prior to the Separation. The provision for income tax in Teradatas consolidated financial statements prior to the Separation was determined on a separate return basis. The Companys intention is to permanently reinvest its foreign earnings outside of the United States. As a result, the effective tax rates in the periods presented after Separation are largely based upon the forecasted pre tax earnings mix and allocation of certain expenses in various taxing jurisdictions where the Company conducts its business; these jurisdictions apply a broad range of statutory income tax rates. The Company has not provided federal income taxes on earnings of approximately $405 million from its foreign subsidiaries. 34 Table of Contents We account for uncertainty in income taxes by prescribing thresholds and attributes for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Under GAAP, we may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. We record any interest and or penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the income tax expense line on our Consolidated Statements of Income. In accordance with a tax sharing agreement between NCR and Teradata, NCR is responsible for all taxes reported on any separate or joint return of NCR, which may also include Teradata for periods prior to the Separation. As of December 31, 2009, the Company has recorded $6 million of unrecognized tax benefits, which is included in the Other liabilities section of the Companys balance sheet. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. We had $114 million and $151 million of net deferred tax assets, and no material valuation allowances as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Share based Compensation We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize compensation expense over the service period for which awards are expected to vest. We utilize the Black Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of stock based compensation at the date of grant, which requires the input of subjective assumptions, including expected volatility and expected term. Further, we estimate forfeitures for options granted which are not expected to vest. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent that actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period in which estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures including types of awards and historical experience. Actual results and future changes in estimates may differ substantially from our current estimates. In addition, we have performance based awards that vest only if specific performance conditions are satisfied. The number of shares that will be earned can vary based on actual performance. No shares will vest if the threshold objectives are not met. In the event the objectives are exceeded additional shares will vest up to a maximum payout. The cost of these awards is expensed over the performance period based upon managements estimate and analysis of the probability of meeting the performance criteria. Because the actual number of shares to be awarded is not known until the end of the performance period, the actual compensation expense related to these awards could differ from our current expectations. Pension and Postemployment Benefits We have pension and postemployment benefit costs and credits, which are developed from actuarial valuations. Actuarial assumptions attempt to anticipate future events and are used in calculating the expense and liability relating to these plans. These factors include assumptions we make about interest rates, expected investment return on plan assets, total and involuntary turnover rates, and rates of future compensation increases. In addition, our actuarial consultants also use subjective factors such as withdrawal rates and mortality rates to develop our valuations. We review and update these assumptions on an annual basis at the beginning of each fiscal year. We are required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. The actuarial assumptions that we use may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates, or longer or shorter life spans of participants. These differences may result in a significant impact to the measurement of our pension and postemployment benefit obligations, and to the amount of pension and postemployment benefits expense we have recorded or may record. For example, as of December 31, 2009, a one half percent increase/decrease in the discount rate would change the projected benefit obligation of our pension plans by $2 million, and a one percent increase/decrease in our involuntary turnover assumption would change our postemployment benefit obligation by $19 million. 35 Table of Contents Prior to the Separation, we accounted for pension and postemployment benefit costs under the multiemployer plan approach. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS A discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements is described in Note 1 Description of Business, Separation, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report, and we incorporate such discussion by reference. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company employs a foreign currency hedging strategy to limit potential losses in earnings or cash flows from adverse foreign currency exchange rate movements. Foreign currency exposures arise from transactions denominated in a currency other than the Companys functional currency and from foreign denominated revenue and profit translated into U.S. dollars. The primary currencies to which the Company is exposed include the euro, the British pound, the Japanese yen, the Australian dollar, and other Asian and South American currencies. Exposures are hedged with foreign currency forward contracts with maturity dates of twelve months or less. The potential loss in fair value at December 31, 2009, for such contracts resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in all foreign currency exchange rates is approximately $4 million. This loss would be mitigated by corresponding gains on the underlying exposures. For additional information regarding the Companys foreign currency hedging strategy, see Note 8 Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report. 36 Table of Contents 
 
