Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K (Annual Report). This Annual Report contains certain statements that are forward looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Annual Report. See Risk Factors and Forward looking Statements. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Teradata provides data warehousing solutions for customers worldwide that combine software (including the Teradata database software and tools, data mining and analytical applications), hardware and related consulting and support services. These solutions can also include third party products and services from other leading technology and service partners. Our solutions enable customers to integrate detailed enterprise wide data such as customer, financial and operational data into a single data warehouse and provide the analytical capabilities to transform that data into useful information. These solutions allow customers to have a consistent, accurate view of their data and businesses, with more accurate, insightful and timely information when and where they need it to make better and faster decisions. This approach provides customers with better insight, faster access to new analytics and less redundancy within their information technology (IT) infrastructure so they can maximize business value while minimizing their total cost of ownership. Our data warehousing technologies provide a high level of performance, scalability, availability and manageability for strategic and operational analytic requirements. Our IT consultants combine a proven methodology, deep industry expertise and years of hands on experience to help clients quickly capture business value while minimizing risk. Our customer services professionals provide a single source of support services to allow customers to maximize use and fully leverage the value of their investments in data warehousing. Through active enterprise intelligence, Teradata is extending the use of traditional enterprise data warehousing (EDW) by integrating advanced analytics into enterprise business processes, allowing companies to combine the analysis of current and historical data so operations personnel can make decisions at the point of contact or service and take action as events occur. Additionally, Teradata now offers a family of data warehouse offerings, providing customers with the ability to use Teradata for point solutions or data marts, in addition to our core EDW technology. Teradata offers data warehousing solutions to many major industries, including banking/financial services, entertainment (including gaming and media), government, insurance and healthcare, manufacturing, retail, telecommunications, transportation and travel. Teradata delivers its solutions primarily through direct sales channels, as well as through alliances with system integrators, other independent software vendors, value added resellers and distributors. We deliver our solutions to customers on a global basis, and organize our operations in the following three regions which are also our reportable segments: North America and Latin America (Americas), Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), and Asia Pacific and Japan (APJ). In early 2011, Teradata completed its acquisition of Aprimo, Inc. (Aprimo), a global provider of integrated marketing software solutions. With Aprimo, Teradata will expand its offering of business analytics with integrated marketing solutions that enable customers to improve marketing performance with data driven insights. Aprimo is being integrated into Teradatas operations, and the Aprimo organization will support Teradatas applications strategy, including development, marketing, sales, and services. 25 Table of Contents 2010 FINANCIAL OVERVIEW As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following are the financial highlights for 2010: Revenue increased 13% in 2010 from 2009, largely driven by higher product revenue, particularly in the Americas region. Gross margin was 56.2% in 2010, up from 54.9% in 2009, driven by higher product margins and a greater proportion of product revenue (as compared to services revenue). Operating income was $415 million in 2010, up from $338 million in 2009. Operating income in 2010 benefited from increased product revenue and margins, offset somewhat by higher selling and Research and Development (R&D) expenses. Net income of $301 million in 2010 increased from $254 million in 2009. Net income per common share (diluted) was $1.77 in 2010 compared to $1.46 in 2009. In addition to the items discussed above, net income for 2010 was impacted by a higher effective tax rate of 27% in 2010, compared to 24% in 2009. STRATEGY OVERVIEW Teradata is a leader in helping companies manage and analyze growing data volumes and complexity to gain business insight and competitive advantage. Teradatas efforts are primarily focused on data warehousing, data analytics, and marketing and business applications. We have four key initiatives underway to broaden our position in the market and take advantage of this opportunity. These initiatives are to: Invest to extend Teradatas core technology and software application offerings, and expand our family of compatible data warehouse platforms to address multiple market segments and solution offerings through internal development and targeted strategic acquisitions, Differentiate Teradata technology and drive platform demand by delivering services that enable customers to achieve best in class analytics, Invest in partnerships to increase the number of solutions available on Teradata platforms, maximize customer value and increase our market coverage, and Continue to seek opportunities to increase our market coverage through additional sales territories (hiring incremental sales account executives as well as technology and industry consultants). Further discussion of our business strategy is included in the section entitled Business included in Item 1 of this Annual Report and incorporated herein by reference. FUTURE TRENDS We believe that demand for our solutions will continue to increase due to the continued increase in data volumes and types of data, the scale and complexity of business requirements, and the growing use of new data elements and more near real time analytics over time. The adoption by customers of more near real time analysis for enterprise intelligence is driving more applications, usage and capacity. As a portion of the Companys operations and revenue occur outside the United States, and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In 2011, Teradata expects approximately two percentage points of benefit from currency translation on its reported revenue and a corresponding currency impact on operating income, based on currency rates as of January 31, 2011. 26 Table of Contents The United States and other international economies, significant to Teradatas sales efforts, experienced severe economic recessions in 2009, which had an adverse impact on IT budgets and capital spending trends, and contributed to lengthened sales cycles for acquiring Teradata products and services. While there were positive signs of economic recovery in 2010, particularly with respect to information technology spending, the scope and stability of such recovery, is not assured. Even in a strong economic environment, the size, timing and contracted terms of large customer orders for our products and services can impact, both positively and negatively, our operating results. While macroeconomic challenges and fluctuations in the IT environment do occur, our long term outlook remains positive. We did not experience significant changes in 2010 due to competitive and or pricing trends for our EDW or appliance solutions, although there is always a risk that pricing pressure for our solutions could occur in the future. Additionally, as companies look to reduce ongoing operating expenses, customers may choose to go to lower maintenance service level agreements which could lead to revenue and margin pressure on our maintenance services business. We continue to be committed to new product development and achieving a responsive yield from our research and development spending and resources, which are intended to drive future demand. We also continue to evaluate opportunities to increase our market coverage and are committed to continuing to increase our number of sales territories, among other things, to drive future revenue growth. Given the length of sales cycles in the data warehouse market, new sales account territories typically take more than two years, on average, to become fully productive. RESULTS FROM OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010, 2009 AND 2008 In millions 2010 % ofRevenue 2009 % ofRevenue 2008 % ofRevenue Product revenue $ 933 48.2 % $ 772 45.2 % $ 849 48.2 % Service revenue 1,003 51.8 % 937 54.8 % 913 51.8 % Total revenue 1,936 100 % 1,709 100 % 1,762 100 % Gross margin Product gross margin 627 67.2 % 503 65.2 % 547 64.4 % Service gross margin 461 46.0 % 435 46.4 % 402 44.0 % Total gross margin 1,088 56.2 % 938 54.9 % 949 53.9 % Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses 526 27.2 % 483 28.3 % 508 28.8 % Research and development expenses 147 7.6 % 117 6.8 % 108 6.1 % Total operating expenses 673 34.8 % 600 35.1 % 616 35.0 % Operating income $ 415 21.4 % $ 338 19.8 % $ 333 18.9 % Revenue Teradata revenue increased 13% in 2010 from 2009. The revenue increase included a positive effect of 1% from foreign currency fluctuations. Product revenue increased 21% in 2010 from 2009, driven by increases in the Americas region, and to a lesser extent the APJ region. Service revenue increased 7% in 2010 from 2009, driven by increases in both consulting and installation related (consulting) services revenue in the Americas and EMEA regions, and increases in maintenance services revenue in the Americas and APJ regions. Teradata revenue declined 3% in 2009 from 2008. The revenue decline included a negative effect of 2% from foreign currency fluctuations. Product revenue decreased 9% in 2009 from 2008, due to the difficult global economic environment in 2009, which resulted in reduced capital spending by companies. Service revenue increased 3% in 2009 from 2008, driven by increases in both consulting and maintenance services. 27 Table of Contents Gross Margin Gross margin was 56.2% in 2010, up from 54.9% in 2009. Product gross margin increased to 67.2% from 65.2% in 2009 with improvements in all three regions. Product gross margins benefitted from a favorable deal mix and lower corporate and overhead costs, including amortization of capitalized software development expenses, as compared to 2009. The term deal mix refers to the revenue mix of our product sales consummated in a particular period, including both software versus hardware content and mix, and amount and mix of third party products re sold. Services gross margin decreased somewhat to 46.0% in 2010 from 46.4% in 2009, due to incremental compensation expenses from hiring additional consultants, as well as higher variable compensation expenses resulting from the Companys improved achievement against performance targets as compared to 2009. The improvement in total gross margins also benefitted from a higher proportion of product revenue, in relation to services revenue, as compared to the prior year. Gross margin was 54.9% in 2009, up from 53.9% in 2008. Product gross margin increased to 65.2% from 64.4% in 2008 with a positive deal mix offset in part by the impact of increased capitalized software amortization against lower product revenue, as well as the adverse impact of currency translation on international product revenue. Services gross margin increased to 46.4% in 2009 from 44.0% in 2008, due to improvements in our consulting services business which benefited from improved utilization of internal resources, lower outside contractor costs, lower overhead costs and lower travel expenses. The improvement in product and services margins more than offset a lower proportion (mix) of product revenue, in relation to services revenue, as compared to the prior year. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses, including Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) and R&D expenses, were $673 million in 2010 compared to $600 million in 2009. The $43 million increase in SG&A expenses was driven primarily by greater selling expense, with higher sales headcount due to sales territory expansions, and increased sales commissions due to higher revenues. The $30 million increase in R&D expenses was driven by increased headcount and salaries, as well as $10 million less in capitalization of software development costs as compared to 2009. Variable incentive compensation expense was also higher, in both SG&A and R&D expenses, due to the Companys improved performance against annual operating targets, as compared to 2009. Total operating expenses were $600 million in 2009 compared to $616 million in 2008. A $25 million decrease in SG&A expenses was driven by the positive impact from foreign currency fluctuations along with lower expenses for travel and other discretionary costs, sales commissions and certain outside services, which more than offset the expense impact of increased expense from the increased number of sales territories. The $9 million increase in R&D expenses was driven by higher salary, benefits and variable incentive compensation expenses given achievement of performance targets, hiring and turnover activity, as well as increased materials spending for product development, which more than offset a $6 million increase in capitalization of software development cost. Other (Expense) Income Other expense and income was $1 million of net expense in 2010, compared to $4 million of net expense in 2009. The net expense in 2010 resulted primarily from charges for equity method investment losses and bank fees, which were not fully offset by interest income in the period, due to the lower interest rate environment. The somewhat greater net expense in 2009 resulted from a $5 million charge to write down the value of an equity investment. Other income was $5 million in 2008. Other income was driven by higher interest income due to the higher interest rate environment, which more than offset a $3 million charge to write down the value of an equity investment. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 27%, 24% and 26% for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate in 2010 was due to a greater proportion of the Companys pre tax earnings being generated in the United States, which has a much higher corporate tax rate. The effective tax rate for 28 Table of Contents the year ended December 31, 2010 included a $5 million tax benefit associated with the recognition of certain foreign net operating loss carryforwards resulting from an audit settlement in the first quarter of 2010. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 included a net tax benefit for a recurring state and local income tax credit that was not recognized in the 2008 income tax rate. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008 included a $3 million charge to reflect a change in estimate identified in conjunction with filing the Companys 2007 U.S. federal tax return. We currently estimate our full year effective tax rate for 2011 to be approximately 27% to 28%. This estimate takes into consideration, among other things, the forecasted earnings mix by jurisdiction for 2010. The provision for income taxes is based on the pre tax earnings mix by jurisdiction of Teradata and its subsidiaries under the Companys current structure. For additional information, see Note 4 Income Taxes in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report. Revenue and Gross Margin by Operating Segment As described in Note 10 Segment, Other Supplemental Information and Concentrations in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Teradata manages its business in three geographic regions, which are also the Companys operating segments: (1) the Americas region; (2) the EMEA region; and (3) the APJ region. Teradata believes this format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends by operating segment. It also includes the same information that is used by Teradata management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess our financial performance. The discussion of our segment results describes the changes in results as compared to the prior year period. The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the years ended December 31: In millions 2010 % ofRevenue 2009 % ofRevenue 2008 % ofRevenue Revenue Americas $ 1,166 60 % $ 981 57 % $ 984 56 % EMEA 442 23 % 430 25 % 451 26 % APJ 328 17 % 298 18 % 327 18 % Total revenue 1,936 100 % 1,709 100 % 1,762 100 % Segment gross margin Americas 702 60.2 % 570 58.1 % 557 56.6 % EMEA 232 52.5 % 230 53.5 % 234 51.9 % APJ 154 47.0 % 138 46.3 % 158 48.3 % Total segment gross margin $ 1,088 56.2 % $ 938 54.9 % $ 949 53.9 % Americas Revenue increased 19% in 2010 from 2009, led by a 30% increase in product revenue. The revenue increase included 1% of benefit from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin increased to 60.2% in 2010, from 58.1% in 2009, driven primarily by improved product margins, as compared to the prior year. Revenue was roughly unchanged in 2009 from 2008, with a 7% decrease in product revenue offset by a 7% increase in services revenue. Gross margin increased to 58.1% in 2009, from 56.6% in 2008, driven by improvements in the consulting services business and a smaller increase in product gross margin rate due to a positive deal mix as compared to the prior year. These improvements were offset in part by the impact of a lower proportion of product revenue, in relation to services revenue, as compared to the prior year. EMEA Revenue increased 3% in 2010 from 2009, with a 7% increase in consulting revenue overcoming relatively flat product and maintenance revenues. The revenue increase included 3% of adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin decreased to 52.5% in 2010, from 53.5% in 2009, driven by the impact of a lower proportion of product revenues, as compared to services revenue, as well as somewhat lower maintenance margins, as compared to the prior year. 29 Table of Contents Revenue decreased 5% in 2009 from 2008, driven by a 6% decrease in product revenue and a 3% decrease in service revenue. The revenue decline included 7% of adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin increased to 53.5% in 2009, from 51.9% in 2008, driven by improvements in consulting services. APJ Revenue increased 10% in 2010 from 2009, led by a 17% increase in product revenue. The revenue increase included 8% of benefit from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin improved to 47.0% in 2010, from 46.3% in 2009, driven by the impact of the higher proportion of product revenue, as well as higher product margins, offset in part by lower consulting services margins, as compared to 2009. Revenue decreased 9% in 2009 from 2008, driven by a 22% decrease in product revenue. The revenue decline included 1% of benefit from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin declined to 46.3% in 2009, from 48.3% in 2008, driven by the impact of the lower product revenue as well as lower maintenance margins, offset in part by an improvement in consulting services margins. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Teradata ended 2010 with $883 million in cash and cash equivalents, a $222 million increase from the December 31, 2009 balance of cash and cash equivalents, after using approximately $88 million for repurchases of Company common stock during the year. Cash provided by operating activities decreased by $42 million to $413 million in 2010. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to an increase in receivables during 2010, as compared to a reduction in receivables during 2009. Additionally, there was a greater increase in inventories in 2010, as compared to 2009. This revenue driven increase in working capital was offset in part by the increase in net income from 2009 to 2010. Teradatas management uses a non GAAP measure called free cash flow, which we define as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures for property and equipment, and additions to capitalized software, as one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company. Free cash flow does not have a uniform definition under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP); and therefore, Teradatas definition of this measure may differ from the definition used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures for, among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and repurchase of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures for the following periods: In millions 2010 2009 2008 Net income $ 301 $ 254 $ 250 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 413 $ 455 $ 440 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (34 ) (29 ) (19 ) Additions to capitalized software (49 ) (59 ) (52 ) Free cash flow $ 330 $ 367 $ 369 Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. In 2010, these other investing activities primarily consisted of two immaterial business acquisitions and an immaterial cost method equity investment. In 2009, other investing activities primarily consisted of purchases and maturities of short term investments. Teradatas short term investments consisted of bank time deposits with original maturities between three months and one year. 30 Table of Contents Teradatas financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 consisted primarily of cash outflows from our share repurchase activities. The Company purchased 2.9 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $29.57 in 2010, and 7.0 million shares at an average price per share of $25.11 in 2009. Share repurchases were made under the two share repurchase programs authorized by our Board of Directors in 2008. The first program (the dilution offset program) authorizes the Company to purchase Teradata common stock to the extent of cash received from the exercise of stock options and the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to these plans. The second program (the general share repurchase program) authorized the Company to repurchase $250 million of the Companys outstanding shares of common stock. The Company has completely utilized this $250 million authorization to repurchase Teradata common stock. On May 4, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors authorized an additional $300 million increase to the Companys existing general share repurchase program. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had $161 million of authorization remaining on the $300 million general share repurchase program to repurchase outstanding shares of Teradata common stock. Share repurchases made by the Company are reported on a trade date basis. Our share repurchase activity depends on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for capital investments, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options were $31 million in 2010 and $25 million in 2009. These proceeds are included in Other Financing Activities, Net in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Our total in cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $506 million as of December 31, 2010 and $455 million as of December 31, 2009. The remaining balance held in the United States was $377 million as of December 31, 2010 and $206 million as of December 31, 2009. Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents and short term investments held outside the United States are distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and foreign withholding taxes. As of December 31, 2010, we have not provided for the U.S. federal tax liability on approximately $591 million of foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested outside of the United States. On October 1, 2007, the Company entered into a five year, $300 million unsecured revolving credit facility. This credit facility contains certain representations and warranties; conditions; affirmative, negative and financial covenants; and events of default customary for such facilities. For most borrowings, Teradata would anticipate choosing a floating rate based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). If the facility had been fully drawn at December 31, 2010, the spread over the LIBOR would have been 32 basis points (for an interest rate of 0.78%, assuming a 6 month borrowing term) given Teradatas leverage ratio at that date. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under this revolving credit facility and was in compliance with all covenants. On January 21, 2011, Teradata completed the acquisition of Aprimo. The $525 million purchase price of this all cash acquisition was funded in part by using $225 million of existing U.S. cash, and in part by drawing down the full $300 million credit facility. As of January 31, 2011, following the completion of the Aprimo acquisition, the Company had approximately $700 million of cash available, including approximately $200 million in the U.S. Management believes that current cash and short term investment resources and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, and other operating financing requirements for the foreseeable future. As the Company continues to pursue its strategic growth plans it will consider alternative forms of long term financing. The Company primarily holds its cash and cash equivalents in bank deposits and highly rated money market funds. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise to comply with the terms of its credit facility, the Company believes it has the ability to obtain additional financing alternatives. 31 Table of Contents Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. In the normal course of business, we enter into various contractual obligations that impact, or could impact, our liquidity. The following table and discussion outlines our material obligations at December 31, 2010, with projected cash payments in the periods shown: In millions TotalAmounts 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 andThereafter Lease obligations $ 63 $ 18 $ 24 $ 12 $ 9 Purchase obligations 10 5 5 Total lease and purchase obligations $ 73 $ 23 $ 29 $ 12 $ 9 Our lease obligations in the above table include Company only facilities in various domestic and international locations. Purchase obligations are committed purchase orders and other contractual commitments for goods and services, and include contractual payments in relation to service agreements with various vendors for ongoing service parts logistics, payroll and other services. We also have product warranties and guarantees to third parties, as well as postemployment and international pension obligations that may affect future cash flow. These items are not included in the table of obligations shown above. Product warranties and third party guarantees are described in detail in Note 8 Commitments and Contingencies in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Postemployment and pension obligations are described in detail in Note 6 Employee Benefit Plans in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities (SPE), which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or for other contractually narrow or limited purposes. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the paragraphs below. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit Committee of Teradatas Board of Directors. For additional information regarding our accounting policies and other disclosures required by GAAP, see Note 1 Description of Business, Separation, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 32 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition Teradatas solution offerings typically include hardware, software, software subscriptions, maintenance support services and other consulting, implementation and installation services. Teradata records revenue when it is realized, or realizable, and earned. Teradata considers these requirements met when: (a) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (b) the products or services have been delivered to the customer; (c) the sales price is fixed or determinable and free of contingencies or significant uncertainties; and (d) collectibility is reasonably assured. Our judgment is required in assessing the probability of collection and that fees are fixed or determinable, which is generally based on evaluation of customer specific information, historical collection experience and economic market conditions. If Teradata cannot conclude that a fee is fixed or determinable at the outset of an arrangement, revenue is deferred until the determination is made that the arrangement fee is fixed or determinable. If market conditions decline, or if the financial condition of our customers deteriorates, we may be unable to determine that collectibility is probable, and we could be required to defer the recognition of revenue until we receive customer payments. Teradata reports revenue net of any taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue producing transactions. Teradata delivers its solutions primarily through direct sales channels, as well as through alliances with system integrators, other independent software vendors and distributors, and value added resellers (collectively referred to as resellers). In assessing whether the sales price to a reseller is fixed or determinable, the Company considers, among other things, past business practices with the reseller, the resellers operating history, payment terms, return rights and the financial wherewithal of the reseller. When we determine that the contract fee to a reseller is not fixed or determinable, we account for that transaction upon sell through to the end customer. Substantially all of Teradatas solutions contain software that is more than incidental to the hardware and services. The typical solution requires no significant production, modification or customization of the software or hardware, and the software is not essential to the functionality of the hardware. For software and software related elements, Teradata allocates revenue to each software element based upon its fair value as determined by vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) using the residual method as discussed below. VSOE of fair value is based upon the normal pricing and discounting practices for those products and services when sold separately. For non software related elements, fair value is based upon Verifiable Objective Evidence (VOE). VOE is based on the price when similar products or services are sold separately by Teradata or other companies. These elements often involve delivery or performance at different periods of time. Revenue for software is generally recognized upon delivery with the hardware using the residual method described below. Revenue for software subscriptions, which provide for unspecified upgrades or enhancements on a when and if available basis, is recognized straight line over the term of the subscription arrangement. Revenue for maintenance support services is also recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the contract. Revenue for other consulting, implementation and installation services is recognized as services are provided. In certain instances, customer acceptance is required prior to the passage of title and risk of loss of the delivered products. In such cases, no revenue is recognized until the customer acceptance is obtained. Delivery and acceptance generally occur in the same reporting period. For arrangements involving multiple deliverables, where the deliverables include software and non software products and services, Teradata evaluates each deliverable to determine whether it represents a separate unit of accounting based on the following criteria: (a) whether the delivered item has value to the customer on a stand alone basis; (b) whether there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered items; and (c) if the contract includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item, delivery or performance of the undelivered items is considered probable and substantially in the control of Teradata. If objective and reliable evidence of fair value exists for all units of accounting in the arrangement, revenue is allocated to each unit of accounting based on relative fair values. Each unit of accounting is then accounted for under the applicable revenue recognition guidance. In situations where there is objective and reliable evidence of fair value for all undelivered elements, but not for delivered elements, the residual method is used to allocate the arrangements consideration. Teradata does not typically have VSOE of fair value for its software products. Therefore, in a substantial majority of Teradata arrangements, the residual method is used to allocate arrangement consideration. Under the residual method, the fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred and accounted for under the applicable revenue recognition guidance, and the remaining portion of the arrangement fee is allocated to the delivered elements and is recognized as revenue. 33 Table of Contents If we cannot determine or maintain VSOE for an undelivered element, it could impact the timing of revenues as all or a portion of the revenue from the multiple element arrangement may need to be deferred. Revenue recognition for complex contractual arrangements requires a greater degree of judgment, including a review of specific contracts, past experience, creditworthiness of customers, international laws and other factors. We must also apply judgment in determining all elements of the arrangement, and in determining the fair value of each element, considering the price charged for each product, and applicable renewal rates for services. Changes in judgments about these factors could impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized between periods. Capitalized Software Under GAAP, costs incurred internally in researching and developing a computer software product should be charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established. Technological feasibility is established when planning, designing and initial coding activities that are necessary to establish the product can be produced to meet its design specifications are complete. In the absence of a detailed program design, a working model is used to establish technological feasibility. Once technological feasibility is established, all development costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. The timing of when various research and development projects become technologically feasible or ready for release can cause fluctuation in the amount of research and development costs that are expensed or capitalized in any given period, thus impacting our reported profitability for that period. Income Taxes In accounting for income taxes, we recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the enacted tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the deferred tax assets or liabilities are expected to be settled or realized. The Companys intention is to permanently reinvest its foreign earnings outside of the United States. As a result, the effective tax rates are largely based upon the forecasted pre tax earnings mix and allocation of certain expenses in various taxing jurisdictions where the Company conducts its business; these jurisdictions apply a broad range of statutory income tax rates. As of December 31, 2010, the Company has not provided for federal income taxes on earnings of approximately $591 million from its foreign subsidiaries. We account for uncertainty in income taxes by prescribing thresholds and attributes for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Under GAAP, we may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. We record any interest and or penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the income tax expense line on our Consolidated Statements of Income. As of December 31, 2010, the Company has recorded $8 million of unrecognized tax benefits, which is included in the Other liabilities section of the Companys balance sheet. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. We had $89 million and $114 million of net deferred tax assets, and no material valuation allowances as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Share based Compensation We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize compensation expense over the service period for which awards are expected to vest. We utilize the Black Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of stock based compensation at the date of grant, which requires the input of subjective assumptions, including expected volatility and expected term. Further, we estimate forfeitures for options granted which are not expected to vest. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent that actual results 34 Table of Contents or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period in which estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures including types of awards and historical experience. Actual results and future changes in estimates may differ substantially from our current estimates. In addition, we have performance based awards that vest only if specific performance conditions are satisfied. The number of shares that will be earned can vary based on actual performance. No shares will vest if the threshold objectives are not met. In the event the objectives are exceeded additional shares will vest up to a maximum payout. The cost of these awards is expensed over the performance period based upon managements estimate and analysis of the probability of meeting the performance criteria. Because the actual number of shares to be awarded is not known until the end of the performance period, the actual compensation expense related to these awards could differ from our current expectations. Pension and Postemployment Benefits We have pension and postemployment benefit costs and credits, which are developed from actuarial valuations. Actuarial assumptions attempt to anticipate future events and are used in calculating the expense and liability relating to these plans. These factors include assumptions we make about interest rates, expected investment return on plan assets, total and involuntary turnover rates, and rates of future compensation increases. In addition, our actuarial consultants also use subjective factors such as withdrawal rates and mortality rates to develop our valuations. We review and update these assumptions on an annual basis at the beginning of each fiscal year. We are required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. The actuarial assumptions that we use may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates, or longer or shorter life spans of participants. These differences may result in a significant impact to the measurement of our pension and postemployment benefit obligations, and to the amount of pension and postemployment benefits expense we have recorded or may record. For example, as of December 31, 2010, a one half percent increase/decrease in the discount rate would change the projected benefit obligation of our pension plans by approximately $3 million, and a one/half percent increase/decrease in our involuntary turnover assumption would change our postemployment benefit obligation by approximately $10 million. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS A discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements is described in Note 1 Description of Business, Separation, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report, and we incorporate such discussion by reference. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company employs a foreign currency hedging strategy to limit potential losses in earnings or cash flows from adverse foreign currency exchange rate movements. Foreign currency exposures arise from transactions denominated in a currency other than the Companys functional currency and from foreign denominated revenue and profit translated into U.S. dollars. The primary currencies to which the Company is exposed include the euro, the British pound, the Japanese yen, the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar, and other Asian and South American currencies. Exposures are hedged with foreign currency forward contracts with maturity dates of twelve months or less. The potential loss in fair value at December 31, 2010, for such contracts resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in all foreign currency exchange rates is approximately $5 million. This loss would be mitigated by corresponding gains on the underlying exposures. For additional information regarding the Companys foreign currency hedging strategy, see Note 7 Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report. 35 Table of Contents 
 
