Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K (Annual Report). This Annual Report contains certain statements that are forward looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Annual Report. See Risk Factors and Forward looking Statements. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Teradata provides analytic data solutions, including integrated data warehousing, big data analytics and business applications for customers worldwide. Our data warehousing solutions combine software, hardware and related business consulting and support services. Our analytic technologies then transform that data into actionable information that help customers make the best decisions possible. These solutions can also include third party products and services from other leading technology and service partners. Our solutions enable customers to integrate detailed enterprise wide data such as customer, financial and operational data and provide the analytical capabilities to transform that data into useful information, available when and where they need it to make better and faster decisions. Our analytic data solutions provide a high level of performance, scalability, availability and manageability for strategic and operational requirements. Our IT consultants combine a proven methodology, deep industry expertise and years of hands on experience to help clients quickly capture business value while minimizing risk. Our customer services professionals provide a single source of support services to allow customers to maximize use and fully leverage the value of their investments in analytic data solutions. Through active enterprise intelligence, Teradata is extending the use of traditional data warehousing by integrating advanced analytics into enterprise business processes, allowing companies to combine the analysis of current and historical data so operations personnel can make decisions at the point of contact or service and take action as events occur. Additionally, Teradata offers a family of data warehouse offerings, providing customers with the ability to use Teradata for point solutions or data marts, in addition to our core integrated data warehouse technology. Teradata offers analytic data solutions to many major industries, which include financial services (including banking and insurance), media and communications (including telecommunications, e business, media and entertainment), retail, manufacturing, healthcare, government, travel and transportation. Teradata delivers its solutions primarily through direct sales channels, as well as through alliances with system integrators, other independent software vendors, value added resellers and distributors. We deliver our solutions to customers on a global basis, and organize our operations in the following three regions which are also our reportable segments: North America and Latin America (Americas), Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), and Asia Pacific and Japan (APJ). In 2011, Teradata completed its acquisitions of Aprimo, Inc. (Aprimo), a global provider of integrated marketing software solutions, as well as Aster Data Systems, Inc. (Aster Data), a market leader in advanced analytics and the management of diverse, multi structured data. Both Aprimo and Aster Data have been integrated into Teradatas operations. With Aprimo, Teradata has expanded its offering of business analytics with integrated marketing solutions that enable customers to improve marketing performance with data driven insights. The Aprimo organization supports Teradatas applications strategy, including development, marketing, sales, and services. Through the acquisition of Aster Data, Teradata has expanded its technologies that enable businesses to perform better analytics on large sets of multi structured data, also known as big data analytics. 27 Table of Contents 2011 FINANCIAL OVERVIEW As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following are the financial highlights for 2011: Revenue increased 22% in 2011 from 2010, with double digit growth rates in all three operating regions. Gross margin was 54.7% in 2011, down from 56.2% in 2010, largely driven by the impact of a higher mix of consulting revenues, as well as acquisition related costs and greater amortization costs on product margins. Operating income was $456 million in 2011, up from $415 million in 2010. Operating income in 2011 benefited from greater revenue volume, offset in part by higher Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) expenses, which included incremental sales headcount and the impact of transaction, integration and reorganization expenses, as well as amortization of intangible assets associated with the acquisitions of Aprimo and Aster Data. Net income of $353 million in 2011 increased from $301 million in 2010. Net income per common (diluted) share was $2.05 in 2011 compared to $1.77 in 2010. Net income for 2011 includes approximately $46 million in after tax impacts of acquisition related purchase accounting adjustments, transaction, integration and reorganization expenses, and amortization of acquired intangible assets, offset by a $22 million gain on equity investments due to purchase and sale transactions. STRATEGY OVERVIEW Teradata is a leader in helping companies manage, integrate, and analyze growing data volumes and complexity to gain business insight and competitive advantage. Teradatas strategy focuses on three large and growing markets data warehousing, big data analytics, and marketing and business applications. Additionally, we have four key initiatives underway to broaden our position in the market and take advantage of these market opportunities. These initiatives are to: Invest to extend Teradatas core database technology and software application offerings, and expand our family of compatible data warehouse platforms to address multiple market segments and solution offerings through internal development and targeted strategic acquisitions such as Aprimo and Aster Data, Differentiate Teradata technology and drive platform demand by delivering consulting services that enable customers to achieve business value through the use of best in class analytics, Invest in partnerships to increase the number of solutions available on Teradata platforms, maximize customer value and increase our market coverage, and Continue to seek opportunities to increase our market coverage through additional sales territories (hiring incremental sales account executives as well as technology and industry consultants). Further discussion of our business strategy is included in the section entitled Business included in Item 1 of this Annual Report and incorporated herein by reference. FUTURE TRENDS We believe that demand for our solutions will continue to increase due to the continued increase in data volumes and types of data, the scale and complexity of business requirements, and the growing use of new data elements and more near real time analytics over time. The adoption by customers of more near real time analysis for enterprise intelligence is driving more applications, usage and capacity. As a portion of the Companys operations and revenue occur outside the United States, and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In 2012, Teradata would 28 Table of Contents expect approximately 1 percentage point of adverse impact from currency translation on its reported revenue and a corresponding currency impact on operating income, based on currency rates as of January 31, 2012. There have been continued signs of economic recovery in 2011, particularly with respect to information technology spending; however, risks associated with macroeconomic challenges and fluctuations still exist. Even in a strong economic environment, the size, timing and contracted terms of large customer orders for our products and services can impact, both positively and negatively, our operating results. While macroeconomic risk factors in the IT environment always exist, our long term outlook remains positive. We did not experience significant changes in 2011 due to competitive and or pricing trends for our data warehouse or appliance solutions, although there is always a risk that pricing pressure for our solutions could occur in the future. Additionally, as companies look to reduce ongoing operating expenses, customers may choose to go to lower maintenance service level agreements which could lead to revenue and margin pressure on our maintenance services business. We continue to be committed to new product development and achieving a responsive yield from our research and development spending and resources, which are intended to drive future demand. We also continue to evaluate opportunities to increase our market coverage and are committed to continuing to increase our number of sales territories, among other things, to drive future revenue growth. Given the length of sales cycles, for new customers in the data warehouse market, new sales account territories typically take more than two years, on average, to become fully productive. RESULTS FROM OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011, 2010 AND 2009 In millions 2011 % ofRevenue 2010 % ofRevenue 2009 % ofRevenue Product revenue $ 1,122 47.5 % $ 933 48.2 % $ 772 45.2 % Service revenue 1,240 52.5 % 1,003 51.8 % 937 54.8 % Total revenue 2,362 100 % 1,936 100 % 1,709 100 % Gross margin Product gross margin 741 66.0 % 627 67.2 % 503 65.2 % Service gross margin 552 44.5 % 461 46.0 % 435 46.4 % Total gross margin 1,293 54.7 % 1,088 56.2 % 938 54.9 % Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses 663 28.1 % 526 27.2 % 483 28.3 % Research and development expenses 174 7.4 % 147 7.6 % 117 6.8 % Total operating expenses 837 35.4 % 673 34.8 % 600 35.1 % Operating income $ 456 19.3 % $ 415 21.4 % $ 338 19.8 % Revenue Teradata revenue increased 22% in 2011 from 2010. The revenue increase included a positive effect of 3% from foreign currency fluctuations, and 3% from acquisitions. Product revenue increased 20% in 2011 from 2010, led by improvements in the Americas and EMEA regions. Service revenue increased 24% in 2011 from 2010, driven primarily by increases in consulting and installation related (consulting) services revenue in the Americas and EMEA regions. Overall, consulting revenue increased 30% in 2011 from 2010, and maintenance services revenue increased 17% during the same period. Teradata revenue increased 13% in 2010 from 2009. The revenue increase included a positive effect of 1% from foreign currency fluctuations. Product revenue increased 21% in 2010 from 2009, driven by increases in the Americas region, and to a lesser extent the APJ region. Service revenue increased 7% in 2010 from 2009, driven by increases in both consulting services revenue in the Americas and EMEA regions, and increases in maintenance services revenue in the Americas and APJ regions. 29 Table of Contents Gross Margin Gross margin was 54.7% in 2011, down from 56.2% in 2010, due to the impact of acquisition related costs, as well as the increased proportion of consulting services revenue, which typically carries a lower margin rate. Product gross margin decreased to 66.0% in 2011 from 67.2% in 2010. The lower product margins were driven primarily by $15 million in acquisition related purchase accounting adjustments for deferred revenue of Aprimo and Aster Data at the time of their respective acquisitions for which there was no further performance requirement, $14 million in additional amortization costs of acquired intangible assets, and $10 million in additional amortization of capitalized internal software development costs. Services gross margin decreased to 44.5% in 2011 from 46.0% in 2010. The lower service margins were driven primarily by a greater proportion of consulting revenue, as compared to maintenance revenue, as well as lower consulting services margins, primarily due to expanding our headcount in response to growing and driving new business opportunities. Incremental headcount can initially have a negative impact on margins, particularly while the employees are being trained and are not yet fully productive. Service gross margins in 2011 also included $6 million in acquisition related purchase accounting adjustments, transaction, integration and reorganization costs. Gross margin was 56.2% in 2010, up from 54.9% in 2009. Product gross margin increased to 67.2% from 65.2% in 2009 with improvements in all three regions. Product gross margins benefitted from a favorable deal mix and lower corporate and overhead costs, including amortization of capitalized software development expenses, as compared to 2009. The term deal mix refers to the revenue mix of our product sales consummated in a particular period, including both software versus hardware content and mix, and amount and mix of third party products re sold. Services gross margin decreased somewhat to 46.0% in 2010 from 46.4% in 2009, due to incremental compensation expenses from hiring additional consultants, as well as higher variable compensation expenses resulting from the Companys improved achievement against performance targets as compared to 2009. The improvement in total gross margins also benefitted from a higher proportion of product revenue, in relation to services revenue, as compared to the prior year. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses, including SG&A and Research and Development (R&D) expenses, were $837 million in 2011 compared to $673 million in 2010. The $137 million increase in SG&A expenses was driven by higher selling expense, due primarily to our strategic initiative to add sales headcount, as well as increased revenue driven costs for sales commissions. SG&A expenses were also impacted by transaction, integration and reorganization expenses, as well as amortization of intangible assets associated with the acquisitions of Aprimo and Aster Data, which totaled $22 million in 2011, in addition to the impact of additional headcount and infrastructure brought on by the Aprimo and Aster Data acquisitions. The $27 million increase in R&D expenses was primarily due to higher engineering headcount expenses, including new engineering headcount from the Aprimo and Aster Data acquisitions, as well as $9 million in transaction and integration costs and amortization of acquired intangible assets associated with the Aprimo and Aster Data acquisitions. These increases were offset in part by $19 million more in capitalization of software development cost as compared to the prior year period. Total operating expenses were $673 million in 2010 compared to $600 million in 2009. The $43 million increase in SG&A expenses was driven primarily by greater selling expense, with higher sales headcount due to sales territory expansions, and increased sales commissions due to higher revenues. The $30 million increase in R&D expenses was driven by increased headcount and salaries, as well as $10 million less in capitalization of software development costs as compared to 2009. Variable incentive compensation expense was also higher, in both SG&A and R&D expenses, due to the Companys improved performance against annual operating targets, as compared to 2009. Other Income (Expense) Other income and expense was $25 million of net income in 2011, compared to $1 million of net expense in 2010. The net income in 2011 resulted primarily from $28 million in gains on equity investments. On May 24, 2011, the Company completed the sale of an equity investment in Pliant Technology, Inc. The Company received proceeds of $30 million and recognized a net gain of $17 million in respect of the transaction. Additionally, as part of the 30 Table of Contents required accounting for the acquisition of Aster Data on April 5, 2011, Teradatas existing 11.2% equity investment in Aster Data was valued at $36 million, triggering the recognition of an $11 million gain. Other expense and income was $1 million of net expense in 2010, compared to $4 million of net expense in 2009. The net expense in 2010 resulted primarily from charges for equity method investment losses and bank fees, which were not fully offset by interest income in the period, due to the lower interest rate environment. The somewhat greater net expense in 2009 resulted from a $5 million charge to write down the value of an equity investment. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 27%, 27% and 24% for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The effective tax rate for 2011 was impacted by a $4 million discrete tax benefit related to the book gain recorded on the Companys previous equity investment in Aster Data, which was reflected as a permanent non taxable item in the second quarter of 2011. The increase in the effective tax rate in 2011 and 2010, as compared to 2009, was due to a greater proportion of the Companys pre tax earnings being generated in the United States, which has a higher statutory corporate tax rate of 35% as compared to the overall statutory effective tax rate of approximately 14.5% related to our foreign earnings. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 included a $5 million tax benefit associated with the recognition of certain foreign net operating loss carryforwards resulting from an audit settlement in the first quarter of 2010. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 included a net tax benefit for a recurring state and local income tax credit that was not recognized in the 2008 income tax rate. We currently estimate our full year effective tax rate for 2012 to be approximately 27%. This estimate takes into consideration, among other things, the forecasted earnings mix by jurisdiction for 2012, and assumes the U.S. Research & Development Tax Credit, which expired as of December 31, 2011, is retroactively reinstated in 2012. The provision for income taxes is based on the pre tax earnings mix by jurisdiction of Teradata and its subsidiaries under the Companys current structure. For additional information, see Note 4 Income Taxes in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report. Revenue and Gross Margin by Operating Segment As described in Note 11 Segment, Other Supplemental Information and Concentrations in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Teradata manages its business in three geographic regions, which are also the Companys operating segments: (1) the Americas region; (2) the EMEA region; and (3) the APJ region. Teradata believes this format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends by operating segment. It also includes the same information that is used by Teradata management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess our financial performance. The discussion of our segment results describes the changes in results as compared to the prior year period. The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the years ended December 31: In millions 2011 % ofRevenue 2010 % ofRevenue 2009 % ofRevenue Revenue Americas $ 1,436 61 % $ 1,166 60 % $ 981 57 % EMEA 548 23 % 442 23 % 430 25 % APJ 378 16 % 328 17 % 298 18 % Total revenue 2,362 100 % 1,936 100 % 1,709 100 % Gross margin Americas 837 58.3 % 702 60.2 % 570 58.1 % EMEA 281 51.3 % 232 52.5 % 230 53.5 % APJ 175 46.3 % 154 47.0 % 138 46.3 % Total gross margin $ 1,293 54.7 % $ 1,088 56.2 % $ 938 54.9 % 31 Table of Contents Americas Revenue increased 23% in 2011 from 2010, led by a 33% increase in consulting services revenue. The revenue increase was not significantly impacted by foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin decreased to 58.3% in 2011, from 60.2% in 2010, driven primarily by lower product margins which were impacted by acquisition related purchase accounting adjustments, additional amortization costs of acquired intangible assets from Aprimo and Aster Data, and additional amortization of capitalized internal software development costs, as well as by the greater proportion of consulting services revenue (versus product revenue), as compared to the prior year period. Revenue increased 19% in 2010 from 2009, led by a 30% increase in product revenue. The revenue increase included 1% of benefit from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin increased to 60.2% in 2010, from 58.1% in 2009, driven primarily by improved product margins, as compared to the prior year. EMEA Revenue increased 24% in 2011 from 2010, led by a 32% increase in consulting services revenue. The revenue increase included 6% of benefit from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin decreased to 51.3% in 2011, from 52.5% in 2010, driven primarily by the greater proportion of consulting services revenue (compared to product revenue), as compared to the prior year period. Revenue increased 3% in 2010 from 2009, with a 7% increase in consulting revenue overcoming relatively flat product and maintenance revenues. The revenue increase included 3% of adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin decreased to 52.5% in 2010, from 53.5% in 2009, driven by the impact of a lower proportion of product revenues, as compared to services revenue, as well as somewhat lower maintenance margins, as compared to the prior year. APJ Revenue increased 15% in 2011 from 2010, led by a 19% increase in consulting services revenue. The revenue increase included 7% of benefit from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin decreased to 46.3% in 2011, from 47.0% in 2010. The gross margin decline was driven primarily by lower product margins, which were impacted by higher amortization costs from acquired intangible assets and capitalized internal software development costs, as well as by the greater proportion of consulting services revenue, as compared to 2010. Revenue increased 10% in 2010 from 2009, led by a 17% increase in product revenue. The revenue increase included 8% of benefit from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin improved to 47.0% in 2010, from 46.3% in 2009, driven by the impact of the higher proportion of product revenue, as well as higher product margins, offset in part by lower consulting services margins, as compared to 2009. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Teradata ended 2011 with $772 million in cash and cash equivalents, an $111 million decrease from the December 31, 2010 balance of cash and cash equivalents, after using approximately $744 million for the acquisitions of Aprimo and Aster Data (net of target company cash holdings), as well as $127 million for repurchases of Company common stock during the year. Cash provided by operating activities increased by $100 million to $513 million in 2011. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to higher net income, net of non cash items such as depreciation and amortization, stock based compensation expense, deferred income taxes and gains on equity investments. An increase in receivables and other assets and liabilities of approximately $76 million was offset by decreases in inventory and increases in current payables and deferred revenue. Teradatas management uses a non GAAP measure called free cash flow, which is not a measure defined under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures for property and equipment, and additions to capitalized software, as one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company, and this may differ from the definition used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures for, among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and repurchase of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash 32 Table of Contents flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures for the following periods: In millions 2011 2010 2009 Net income $ 353 $ 301 $ 254 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 513 $ 413 $ 455 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (42 ) (34 ) (29 ) Additions to capitalized software (68 ) (49 ) (59 ) Free cash flow $ 403 $ 330 $ 367 Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. Other investing activities in 2011 primarily consisted of Teradatas acquisitions of Aprimo and Aster Data as discussed further below. In 2010, these other investing activities primarily consisted of two immaterial business acquisitions and an immaterial cost method equity investment. In 2009, other investing activities primarily consisted of purchases and maturities of short term investments. Teradatas short term investments consisted of bank time deposits with original maturities between three months and one year. Teradatas financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily consisted of $300 million in proceeds from a new 5 year term loan, as discussed below, as well as repurchases of the Companys common stock. Teradatas financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 consisted primarily of cash outflows from our share repurchase activities. The Company purchased 2.5 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $50.78 in 2011, 2.9 million shares at an average price per share of $29.57 in 2010, and 7.0 million shares at an average price per share of $25.11 in 2009. Share repurchases were made under two share repurchase programs authorized by our Board of Directors in 2008. The first program (the dilution offset program) authorizes the Company to purchase Teradata common stock to the extent of cash received from the exercise of stock options and the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to these plans. On May 4, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors authorized an additional $300 million increase to the Companys second program (the general share repurchase program). As of December 31, 2011, the Company had $75 million of authorization remaining on the $300 million general share repurchase program to repurchase outstanding shares of Teradata common stock. On February 6, 2012, our Board of Directors approved a new, $300 million share repurchase authorization to replace the prior $300 million authorization that was to expire on February 10, 2012. Share repurchases made by the Company are reported on a trade date basis. Our share repurchase activity depends on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for capital investments, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options were $25 million in 2011, $31 million in 2010 and $25 million in 2009. These proceeds are included in Other Financing Activities, Net in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Our total in cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $594 million as of December 31, 2011 and $506 million as of December 31, 2010. The remaining balance held in the United States was $178 million as of December 31, 2011 and $377 million as of December 31, 2010. Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents and short term investments held outside the United States are distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and foreign withholding taxes. As of December 31, 2011, we have not provided for the U.S. federal tax liability on approximately $728 million of foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested outside of the United States. On October 1, 2007, the Company entered into a five year, $300 million unsecured revolving credit facility. This credit facility contains certain representations and warranties; conditions; affirmative, negative and financial covenants; and events of default customary for such facilities. For most borrowings, Teradata would anticipate 33 Table of Contents choosing a floating rate based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). If the facility had been fully drawn at December 31, 2011, the spread over the LIBOR would have been 40 basis points (for an interest rate of 1.21%, assuming a 6 month borrowing term) given Teradatas leverage ratio at that date. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under this revolving credit facility and was in compliance with all covenants. The Company expects to renew/replace its current credit facility in 2012. On January 21, 2011, Teradata completed the acquisition of Aprimo. The $525 million purchase price of this all cash acquisition was funded in part by using $225 million of existing U.S. cash (offset by $26 million of cash held on Aprimos balance sheet at the time it was acquired), and in part by drawing down the full $300 million borrowing capacity from the Companys Credit Facility. The $300 million in credit facility borrowings were repaid in full during the second quarter of 2011. On April 5, 2011, Teradata completed the acquisition of Aster Data. The aggregate consideration payable by Teradata for all of the outstanding equity interests of Aster Data was $259 million. The aggregate consideration payable excluded the value of Teradatas pre existing 11.2% equity investment in Aster Data. Also on April 5, 2011, Teradata entered into a new $300 million five year, unsecured term loan, and used a portion of these funds to finance the Aster Data acquisition. The outstanding principal amount of the term loan agreement bears interest at a floating rate based upon a negotiated base rate or a Eurodollar rate plus in each case a margin based on the leverage ratio of the Company. As of December 31, 2011, the term loan principal outstanding was $300 million, and carried an interest rate of 1.31%. Management believes current cash and short term investment resources, Company cash flows from operations and its $300 million Credit Facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. The Company principally holds its cash, cash equivalents and short term investments in bank deposits and highly rated money market funds. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise to comply with the terms of the credit facility and term loan agreement, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. In the normal course of business, we enter into various contractual obligations that impact, or could impact, our liquidity. The following table and discussion outlines our material obligations at December 31, 2011, with projected cash payments in the periods shown: In millions TotalAmounts 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andThereafter Principal payments on long term debt $ 300 $ 11 $ 41 $ 248 $ Interest payments on long term debt 15 4 7 4 Lease obligations 54 19 21 10 4 Purchase obligations 2 1 1 Total debt, lease and purchase obligations $ 371 $ 35 $ 70 $ 262 $ 4 Our principal payments on long term debt represent the expected cash payments on our $300 million term loan and do not include any fair value adjustments or discounts and premiums. Our interest payments on long term debt represent the estimated cash interest payments based on the prevailing interest rate on our $300 million term loan as of December 31, 2011. Our lease obligations in the above table include Company facilities in various domestic and international locations. Purchase obligations are committed purchase orders and other contractual commitments for goods and services, and include contractual payments in relation to service agreements with various vendors for ongoing service parts logistics, and other services. 34 Table of Contents We also have product warranties and guarantees to third parties, as well as postemployment and international pension obligations that may affect future cash flow. These items are not included in the table of obligations shown above. Product warranties and third party guarantees are described in detail in Note 8 Commitments and Contingencies in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Postemployment and pension obligations are described in detail in Note 6 Employee Benefit Plans in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities (SPE), which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or for other contractually narrow or limited purposes. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the paragraphs below. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit Committee of Teradatas Board of Directors. For additional information regarding our accounting policies and other disclosures required by GAAP, see Note 1 Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition Teradatas solution offerings typically include software, software subscriptions (unspecified when and if available upgrades), hardware, maintenance support services, and other consulting, implementation and installation related (consulting) services. Teradata records revenue when it is realized, or realizable, and earned. Teradata considers these requirements met when: Persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists The products or services have been delivered to the customer The sales price is fixed or determinable and free of contingencies or significant uncertainties Collectibility is reasonably assured Teradata reports revenue net of any taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue producing transactions. The Company assesses whether fees are fixed or determinable at the time of sale. Standard payment terms may vary based on the country in which the agreement is executed, but are generally between 30 and 90 days. Payments that are due within six months are generally deemed to be fixed or determinable based on a successful collection history on such arrangements, and thereby satisfy the required criteria for revenue recognition. Teradata delivers its solutions primarily through direct sales channels, as well as through 35 Table of Contents alliances with system integrators, other independent software vendors and distributors, and value added resellers (collectively referred to as resellers). In assessing whether the sales price to a reseller is fixed or determinable, the Company considers, among other things, past business practices with the reseller, the resellers operating history, payment terms, return rights and the financial wherewithal of the reseller. When Teradata determines that the contract fee to a reseller is not fixed or determinable, that transaction is deferred and recognized upon sell through to the end customer. The Companys deliverables often involve delivery or performance at different periods of time. Revenue for software is generally recognized upon delivery with the hardware once title and risk of loss have been transferred. Revenue for software subscriptions, which provide for unspecified upgrades or enhancements on a when and if available basis, is recognized straight line over the term of the subscription arrangement. Revenue for maintenance support services is also recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the contract. Revenue for other consulting, implementation and installation services is recognized as services are provided. In certain instances, acceptance of the product or service is specified by the customer. In such cases, revenue is deferred until the acceptance criteria have been met. Delivery and acceptance generally occur in the same reporting period. The Companys arrangements generally do not include any customer negotiated provisions for cancellation, termination or refunds that would significantly impact recognized revenue. In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) amended the accounting standards for revenue recognition to remove tangible products containing software components and non software components that function together to deliver the products essential functionality from the scope of the industry specific software revenue recognition guidance. In October 2009, the FASB also amended the accounting standards for multiple deliverable revenue arrangements to: Provide updated guidance on whether multiple deliverables exist, how the deliverables in an arrangement should be separated, and how the consideration should be allocated; Require an entity to allocate revenue in an arrangement using its best estimate of selling prices (BESP) for deliverables if a vendor does not have vendor specific objective evidence of selling price (VSOE) or third party evidence of selling price (TPE); and Eliminate the use of the residual method and require an entity to allocate revenue using the relative selling price method. The standard is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. Teradata adopted these standards on a prospective basis as of the beginning of fiscal 2011 for new and materially modified arrangements originating on or after January 1, 2011. The Company evaluates all deliverables in an arrangement to determine whether they represent separate units of accounting. A deliverable constitutes a separate unit of accounting when it has standalone value, and if the contract includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item, delivery or performance of the undelivered items is considered probable and substantially in the control of Teradata. This new guidance does not generally change the units of accounting for the Companys revenue transactions. Most of the Companys products and services qualify as separate units of accounting and are recognized upon meeting the criteria as described above. For multiple deliverable arrangements that contain non software related deliverables, the Company allocates revenue to each deliverable based upon the relative selling price hierarchy and if software and software related deliverables are also included in the arrangement, to those deliverables as a group based on the BESP for the group. The selling price for a deliverable is based on its VSOE if available, TPE if VSOE is not available, or BESP if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. The Company then recognizes revenue when the remaining revenue recognition criteria are met for each deliverable. For the software group or arrangements that contain only software and software related deliverables, the revenue recognition criteria utilizing the residual method remains unchanged as further described below. 36 Table of Contents Teradatas data warehousing software and hardware products are sold and delivered together in the form of a Node of capacity as an integrated technology solution. Because both the database software and hardware platform are necessary to deliver the data warehouses essential functionality, the database software and hardware (Node) are excluded from the software rules and considered a non software related deliverable. Teradata software applications and related support are considered software related deliverables. Additionally, the amount of revenue allocated to the delivered items utilizing the relative selling price method is limited to the amount that is not contingent upon the delivery of additional items or meeting other specified performance conditions (the non contingent amount). VSOE is based upon the normal pricing and discounting practices for those products and services when sold separately. Teradata uses the stated renewal rate approach in establishing VSOE for maintenance and subscriptions (collectively referred to as postcontract customer support PCS). Under this approach, the Company assesses whether the contractually stated renewal rates are substantive and consistent with the Companys normal pricing practices. Renewal rates greater than the lower level of our targeted pricing ranges are considered to be substantive and, therefore, meet the requirements to support VSOE. In instances where there is not a substantive renewal rate in the arrangement, the Company allocates revenue based upon BESP, using the minimum established pricing targets as supported by the renewal rates for similar customers utilizing the bell curve method. Teradata also offers consulting and installation related services to its customers, which are considered non software deliverables if they relate to the nodes. These services are rarely considered essential to the functionality of the data warehouse solution deliverable and there is never software customization of the proprietary database software. VSOE for consulting services is based on the hourly rates for standalone consulting services projects by geographic region and are indicative of the Companys customary pricing practices. Pricing in each market is structured to obtain a reasonable margin based on input costs. In nearly all multiple deliverable arrangements, the Company is unable to establish VSOE for all deliverables in the arrangement. This is due to infrequently selling each deliverable separately (such is the case with our nodes), not pricing products or services within a narrow range, or only having limited sales history. When VSOE cannot be established, attempts are made to establish TPE of the selling price for each deliverable. TPE is determined based on competitor prices for similar deliverables when sold separately. However, Teradatas offerings contain significant differentiation such that the comparable pricing of products with similar functionality cannot be obtained. This is because Teradatas products contain a significant amount of proprietary technology and its solutions offer substantially different features and functionality than other available products. As Teradatas products are significantly different from those of its competitors, the Company is unable to establish TPE for the vast majority of its products. When the Company is unable to establish selling price using VSOE or TPE, the Company uses BESP in its allocation of arrangement consideration. The objective of BESP is to determine the price at which the Company would transact a sale if the product or service was sold on a standalone basis. The Company determines BESP for a product or service by considering multiple factors including, but not limited to, geographies, market conditions, product life cycles, competitive landscape, internal costs, gross margin objectives, purchase volumes and pricing practices. The primary consideration in developing BESP for the Companys nodes is the bell curve method based on historical transactions. The BESP analysis is at the geography level in order to align it with the way in which the Company goes to market and establishes pricing for its products. The Company has established discount ranges off of published list prices for different geographies based on strategy and maturity of Teradatas presence in the respective geography. There are distinctions in each geography and product group which support the use of geographies and markets for the determination of BESP. For example, the Companys U.S. market is relatively mature and most of the large transactions are captured in this market, whereas EMEA and APJ are less mature markets with generally smaller deal size. Additionally, the prices and margins for the Companys products vary by geography and by product class. BESP is analyzed on a quarterly basis using a rolling previous 4 quarters of data, which the Company believes best reflects most recent pricing practices in a changing marketplace. The Company reviews VSOE, TPE and its determination of BESP on a periodic basis and updates it, when appropriate, to ensure that the practices employed reflect the Companys recent pricing experience. The Company 37 Table of Contents maintains internal controls over the establishment and updates of these estimates, which includes review and approval by the Companys management. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 there was no material impact to revenue resulting from changes in VSOE, TPE or BESP, nor does the Company expect a material impact from such changes in the near term. Additionally, the adoption of the amended revenue recognition guidelines had no material net impact on the Companys results of operations for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011. Revenue recognition for complex contractual arrangements requires a greater degree of judgment, including a review of specific contracts, past experience, creditworthiness of customers, international laws and other factors. We must also apply judgment in determining all deliverables of the arrangement, and in determining the relative selling price of each deliverable, considering the price charged for each product when sold on a standalone basis, and applicable renewal rates for services. Changes in judgments about these factors could impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized between periods. Term licenses, hosting arrangements and software as a service (SaaS). As a result of the Companys acquisition of Aprimo, Inc. (Aprimo) on January 21, 2011 (see Note 12 Business Combinations in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), Teradatas application offerings were expanded to include, term licenses, hosting arrangements and SaaS. Teradata previously offered its software applications primarily through a perpetual licensing arrangement. In cases where the contract requires the software to be hosted by the Company and provided via an on demand arrangement, the software is considered a subscription. If the license is of limited life and does not require the Company to host the software for the customer, the software is considered a term license. In both types of these arrangements, revenues are recognized over the term of the agreement. For hosting arrangements where customers have the right to take possession of the Companys software at any time during the hosting period, the customers rights to the software in these circumstances are not dependent on additional software payments or significant penalties. Accounting for arrangements prior to January 1, 2011. For transactions entered into prior to January 1, 2011, the Company allocates revenue for multiple deliverable arrangements for which VSOE exists for undelivered elements but not for the delivered elements, using the residual method. Teradata does not typically have VSOE for its hardware and software products. Therefore, in a substantial majority of Teradata arrangements entered into prior to January 1, 2011, the residual method is used to allocate the arrangement consideration. Under the residual method, the VSOE of the undelivered elements is deferred and accounted for under the applicable revenue recognition guidance, and the remaining portion of the arrangement fee is allocated to the delivered elements and is recognized as revenue. For arrangements in which VSOE does not exist for each undelivered element, revenue for the entire arrangement is deferred and not recognized until delivery of all the elements without VSOE has occurred, unless the only undelivered element is PCS in which case the entire contract is recognized ratably over the PCS period. Contract accounting. If an arrangement involves significant production, modification or customization of the application software or the undelivered services are essential to the functionality of the delivered software then the Company uses the percentage of completion or completed contract method of accounting. The percentage of completion method is used when estimates of costs to complete and extent of progress toward completion are reasonably dependable. The Company typically uses labor hours or costs incurred to date as a percentage of the total estimated labor hours or costs to fulfill the contract as the most reliable and meaningful measure that is available for determining a projects progress toward completion. In circumstances when reasonable and reliable cost estimates for a project cannot be made, the completed contract method is used whereas no revenue is recognized until the project is complete. When total cost estimates exceed revenues, the Company accrues the estimated losses immediately. For purposes of allocation of the arrangement consideration, any products for which the services are not essential are separated utilizing the relative selling price method discussed above. PCS is also separated and allocated based on VSOE and then recognized ratably over the term. The remaining contract value, which typically includes application software and essential services, is then recognized utilizing the percentage of completion or completed contract methods discussed above. 38 Table of Contents Capitalized Software Under GAAP, costs incurred internally in researching and developing a computer software product should be charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established. Technological feasibility is established when planning, designing and initial coding activities that are necessary to establish the product can be produced to meet its design specifications are complete. In the absence of a detailed program design, a working model is used to establish technological feasibility. Once technological feasibility is established, all development costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. The timing of when various research and development projects become technologically feasible or ready for release can cause fluctuation in the amount of research and development costs that are expensed or capitalized in any given period, thus impacting our reported profitability for that period. Income Taxes In accounting for income taxes, we recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the enacted tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the deferred tax assets or liabilities are expected to be settled or realized. The Companys intention is to permanently reinvest its foreign earnings outside of the United States. As a result, the effective tax rates are largely based upon the forecasted pre tax earnings mix and allocation of certain expenses in various taxing jurisdictions where the Company conducts its business. These jurisdictions apply a broad range of statutory income tax rates; the U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate is currently 35% as compared to the overall statutory effective tax rate of our various foreign jurisdictions of approximately 14.5%. As of December 31, 2011, the Company has not provided for federal income taxes on earnings of approximately $728 million from its foreign subsidiaries. We account for uncertainty in income taxes by prescribing thresholds and attributes for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Under GAAP, we may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. We record any interest and or penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the income tax expense line on our Consolidated Statements of Income. As of December 31, 2011, the Company has a total of $28 million of unrecognized tax benefits, of which $12 million is included in the Other liabilities section of the Companys consolidated balance sheet. The remaining balance of $16 million of unrecognized tax benefits relates to certain tax attributes acquired by the Company in the acquisitions of Aprimo and Aster Data in 2011, which are netted against the underlying deferred tax assets recorded on the opening balance sheets for purchase accounting. For further information related to the Companys acquisitions, see Note 12 Business Combinations in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. We had $39 million and $89 million of net deferred tax assets, and no material valuation allowances as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Share based Compensation We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize compensation expense over the service period for which awards are expected to vest. We utilize the Black Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of stock based compensation at the date of grant, which requires the input of subjective assumptions, including expected volatility and expected term. Further, we estimate forfeitures for options granted which are not expected to vest. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent that actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period in which estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures including 39 Table of Contents types of awards and historical experience. Actual results and future changes in estimates may differ substantially from our current estimates. In addition, we issue performance based awards that vest only if specific performance conditions are satisfied. The number of shares that will be earned can vary based on actual performance. No shares will vest if the threshold objectives are not met. In the event the objectives are exceeded additional shares will vest up to a maximum payout. The cost of these awards is expensed over the performance period based upon managements estimate and analysis of the probability of meeting the performance criteria. Because the actual number of shares to be awarded is not known until the end of the performance period, the actual compensation expense related to these awards could differ from our current expectations. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The company reviews goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. The guidance on goodwill impairment requires the company to perform a two step impairment test. In the first step, the company compares the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. The company determines the fair value of its reporting units based on the income approach. Under the income approach, the company calculates the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then the second step of the impairment test is performed in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill. If the carrying value of a reporting units goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then the company records an impairment loss equal to the difference. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, discount rates and future economic and market conditions. The companys estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of managements assumptions, which would not reflect unanticipated events and circumstances that may occur. Additionally, the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations requires the company to estimate the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree to properly allocate purchase price consideration between assets that are depreciated and amortized from goodwill. Impairment testing for assets, other than goodwill, requires the allocation of cash flows to those assets or group of assets and if required, an estimate of fair value for the assets or group of assets. The companys estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of managements assumptions, which would not reflect unanticipated events and circumstances that may occur. The annual goodwill impairment analysis, which the company performed during the fourth quarter of 2011, did not result in an impairment charge. There were also no impairment charges recognized in 2011 as a result of assessments of intangible assets acquired as a result of business combinations (or otherwise purchased from other companies). As of December 31, 2011, Teradata had $742 million in goodwill and $163 million in acquired intangible assets on its consolidated balance sheet. Pension and Postemployment Benefits We have pension and postemployment benefit costs and credits, which are developed from actuarial valuations. Actuarial assumptions attempt to anticipate future events and are used in calculating the expense and liability relating to these plans. These factors include assumptions we make about interest rates, expected investment return on plan assets, total and involuntary turnover rates, and rates of future compensation increases. In addition, our actuarial consultants also use subjective factors such as withdrawal rates and mortality rates to develop our valuations. We review and update these assumptions on an annual basis at the beginning of each fiscal year. We are required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. The 40 Table of Contents actuarial assumptions that we use may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates, or longer or shorter life spans of participants. These differences may result in a significant impact to the measurement of our pension and postemployment benefit obligations, and to the amount of pension and postemployment benefits expense we have recorded or may record. For example, as of December 31, 2011, a one half percent increase/decrease in the discount rate would change the projected benefit obligation of our pension plans by approximately $3 million, and a one/half percent increase/decrease in our involuntary turnover assumption would change our postemployment benefit obligation by approximately $11 million. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS A discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements is described in Note 1 Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report, and we incorporate such discussion by reference. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company employs a foreign currency hedging strategy to limit potential losses in earnings or cash flows from adverse foreign currency exchange rate movements. Foreign currency exposures arise from transactions denominated in a currency other than the Companys functional currency and from foreign denominated revenue and profit translated into U.S. dollars. The primary currencies to which the Company is exposed include the euro, the British pound, the Japanese yen, the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar and other Asian and South American currencies. Exposures are hedged with foreign currency forward contracts with maturity dates of twelve months or less. The potential loss in fair value at December 31, 2011, for such contracts resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in all foreign currency exchange rates is approximately $2 million. This loss would be mitigated by corresponding gains on the underlying exposures. For additional information regarding the Companys foreign currency hedging strategy, see Note 7 Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report. 41 Table of Contents 
 
