FILE:MYL/MYL-8K-20030115150241.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
                       
Item 5.
Other Events.
        On January 7, 2003, the Registrant issued a press release entitled "Mylan Announces Three-For-Two Stock Split," a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (a)     Financial statements of businesses acquired.
              None.
     (b)     Pro forma financial information.
              None.
     (c)     Exhibits.
              99.1   News Release dated January 7, 2003.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
DATE:   January 13, 2003 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

NEWS RELEASE     FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEFOR: Mylan Laboratories Inc.For Further Information    1030 Century BuildingCONTACT: Patricia Sunseri    Pittsburgh, PA  15222 412-232-0100
Pittsburgh, PA - January 7, 2003 - Mylan Laboratories Inc. (NYSE: MYL) announced today that the Board of Directors has approved a three-for-two stock split of the Company's common shares. The split will be effected by issuing one additional share of common stock for every two shares of common stock held. The additional shares will be distributed on January 27, 2003, to holders of record at the close of business on January 17, 2003. Fractional share amounts resulting from the split will be paid to shareholders in cash.
"This represents the tenth stock split in Mylan's history," stated Vice Chairman and CEO, Robert J. Coury. Coury further stated, "This decision is a reflection of the Board of Directors' and management's confidence in Mylan's future. We continue to see strong fundamentals in our core generic business and we expect to continue expansion of our branded business through internal and external opportunities."
Mylan Laboratories Inc. is a leading pharmaceutical company that develops, manufactures and markets generic and proprietary prescription products. Mylan has two operating segments that market an extensive line of generic and branded products through four business units: Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc., Mylan Technologies Inc., UDL Laboratories, Inc. and Bertek Pharmaceuticals Inc. For more information about Mylan, visit www.mylan.com.
This press release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Because such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, actual future results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. We refer you to the risk factors and other disclosures contained in our periodic SEC filings. We undertake no duty to update our forward-looking statements, even though our situation may change in the future.


