FILE:MYL/MYL-8K-20070131184938.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
     (b) On January 31, 2007, Mylan Laboratories Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation ("Mylan"), announced that John P. O'Donnell, Ph.D., Mylan's Chief Scientific Officer, will be retiring from the Company, effective as of April 1, 2007. Effective at such time, Dr. O'Donnell will serve as Mylan's Strategic Scientific Advisor in the office of the CEO. A copy of the press release announcing Dr. O'Donnell's retirement is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
PITTSBURGHJan. 31, 2007Mylan Laboratories Inc. (NYSE: MYL) today announced a strategic global reorganization following the Company's successful acquisition of a controlling interest in Matrix Laboratories.
Robert J. Coury, Mylan's Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, commented: "During the past several months leading up to the successful closing of this transformational transaction we've had the opportunity to carefully evaluate all aspects of our organizations, and we are realigning to allow us to realize the full benefit, efficiencies and growth potential of our new global platform. I am very pleased at how quickly and efficiently we have brought these organizations together and this reorganization will further enhance and accelerate the benefits to Mylan and Matrix."
A significant number of Mylan and Matrix employees are being promoted and given additional opportunities and responsibilities as part of this reorganization. Some senior management changes include:
 
Mylan also announced that Dr. John P. O'Donnell, Chief Scientific Officer, will retire at the end of the current fiscal year, effective April 1, 2007, but will continue on with Mylan in a new role of Strategic Scientific Advisor in the office of the CEO. Dr. O'Donnell has had a most distinguished 25-year career at Mylan, including the last five as Chief Scientific Officer, where he provided leadership and strategic direction for scientific initiatives across the Company. During his tenure at Mylan, Dr. O'Donnell also served as Executive Vice President of Research and Quality and Vice President of Research and Product Development.
Robert J. Coury further commented: "John is highly accomplished and widely-respected in the industry and has been an outstanding leader and advisor to Mylan and myself for many years. We are fortunate that he has agreed to stay on in this important role where Mylan will continue to benefit from his deep scientific and regulatory knowledge."
About Mylan
Mylan Laboratories Inc. is a leading pharmaceutical company with three principal subsidiaries, Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc., Mylan Technologies Inc. and UDL Laboratories Inc., and a controlling interest in Matrix Laboratories Limited, India. Mylan develops, licenses, manufactures, markets and distributes an extensive line of generic and proprietary products. For more information about Mylan, please visit www.mylan.com


