FILE:MYL/MYL-8K-20070307170809.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     
Purchase Agreements
     On March 1, 2007, Mylan Laboratories Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (the "Company"), entered into a Purchase Agreement (the "Convertible Notes Purchase Agreement") with Merrill Lynch & Co. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as representatives of the underwriters named therein, relating to the sale by the Company of up to $600 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 1.25% Senior Convertible Notes due 2012 (the "Notes"). A copy of the Convertible Notes Purchase Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.1.
     On March 1, 2007, the Company entered into a Purchase Agreement (the "Common Stock Purchase Agreement") with Merrill Lynch & Co. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as representatives of the underwriters named therein, relating to the sale of 26,162,500 shares of common stock. A copy of the Common Stock Purchase Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.2.
     Both the Notes and the common stock were sold pursuant to an effective registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-140778) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
     
Indenture
     The Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture dated as of March 7, 2007 (the "Indenture"), among the Company, the guarantors named therein and The Bank of New York, as trustee. A copy of the Indenture is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1. The Indenture includes a form of Note.
     The Notes bear interest at a rate of 1.25% per year, accruing from March 7, 2007. Interest is payable semiannually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning September 15, 2007. The Notes will mature on March 15, 2012, subject to earlier repurchase or conversion. The Notes have an initial conversion rate of 44.5931 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount (equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $22.43 per share), subject to adjustment.
     
Convertible Note Hedge and Warrant Confirmations
     On March 1, 2007, concurrently with the sale of the notes, Mylan entered into a convertible note hedge transaction, comprised of a purchased call option (the "Confirmation of OTC Convertible Note Hedge Transaction"), and two warrant transactions (the "Confirmation of OTC Warrant Transaction" and the "Confirmation of Additional OTC Warrant Transaction") with each of Merrill Lynch International, an affiliate of Merrill Lynch, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, London Branch, an affiliate of JPMorgan, each of which we refer to as a counterparty. The net cost to us of the transactions will be approximately $80.6 million.
Table of Contents
     The purchased call options will cover approximately 26,755,853 shares of our common stock, subject to anti-dilution adjustments substantially similar to the anti-dilution adjustments for the notes, which under most circumstances represents the maximum number of shares that underlie the notes. Concurrently with entering into the purchased call options, we entered into warrant transactions with the counterparties. Pursuant to the warrant transactions, we will sell to the counterparties warrants to purchase in the aggregate approximately 26,755,853 shares of our common stock, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments. The warrants may not be exercised prior to the maturity of the notes.
     The purchased call options are expected to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the notes in the event that the market value per share of our common stock at the time of exercise is greater than approximately $22.43, which corresponds to the initial conversion price of the notes. The sold warrants have an exercise price that is 60.0% higher than the price per share of $19.50 at which we offered our common stock in the concurrent equity offering.
     If the market price per share of our common stock at the time of conversion of any notes is above the strike price of the purchased call options, the purchased call options will, in most cases, entitle us to receive from the counterparties in the aggregate the same number of shares of our common stock as we would be required to issue to the holder of the converted notes. Additionally, if the market price of our common stock at the time of exercise of the sold warrants exceeds the strike price of the sold warrants, we will owe the counterparties an aggregate of approximately 26,755,853 shares of our common stock. The purchased call options and sold warrants may be settled for cash at our election.
     The purchased call options and sold warrants are separate transactions entered into by the Company with the counterparties, are not part of the terms of the Notes and will not affect the holders' rights under the Notes. Holders of the Notes will not have any rights with respect to the purchased call options or the sold warrants. A copy of the Confirmation of OTC Convertible Note Hedge Transaction with each of Merrill Lynch International and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, London Branch is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.2 and 4.3, respectively. A copy of the Confirmation of OTC Warrant Transaction with each of Merrill Lynch International and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, London Branch is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.4 an 4.5, respectively. A copy of the Confirmation of Additional OTC Warrant Transaction with each of Merrill Lynch International and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, London Branch is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.6 an 4.7, respectively.
     The summary of each of the Convertible Notes Purchase Agreement, the Common Stock Purchase Agreement, the Indenture and Confirmation of OTC Convertible Note Hedge Transaction, Confirmation of OTC Warrant Transaction and Confirmation of Additional OTC Warrant Transaction, with each of Merrill Lynch International and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, London Branch, is
Table of Contents
qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the related agreements, which are included as exhibits hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
     The information included in Item 1.01 above regarding the Indenture is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits.
Table of Contents
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 1.1
Dated: March 1, 2007
 
March 1, 2007
MERRILL LYNCH & CO. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC. as Representatives of the several Underwriters c/o Merrill Lynch & Co.       Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated 4 World Financial Center New York, New York 10080
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Mylan Laboratories Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (the "Company"), confirms its agreement with Merrill Lynch & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated ("Merrill Lynch"), J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. ("J.P. Morgan") and each of the other Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto (collectively, the "Underwriters," which term shall also include any underwriter substituted as hereinafter provided in Section 10 hereof), for whom Merrill Lynch and J.P. Morgan are acting as representatives (in such capacity, the "Representatives"), with respect to the issue and sale by the Company and the purchase by the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, of the respective principal amounts set forth in said Schedule A of $550,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's senior convertible notes due 2012 (the "Convertible Notes"), and with respect to the grant by the Company to the Underwriters of the option described in Section 2(b) hereof to purchase all or any part of an additional $50,000,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes to cover overallotments, if any. The aforesaid initial $550,000,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes (the "Initial Notes") to be purchased by the Underwriters and all or any part of the $50,000,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes subject to the option described in Section 2(b) hereof (the "Option Notes" and together with the Initial Notes, the "Notes") to be purchased by the Underwriters are to be issued pursuant to an indenture dated as of March 7, 2007 (the "Indenture") between the Company, the Guarantors (as defined below) and The Bank of New York, as trustee (the "Trustee"). The Notes will be unconditionally guaranteed on a senior basis (the "Guarantee" and together with the Notes, the "Securities") by each of the subsidiaries of the Company listed on the signature page hereto (the "Guarantors").
     The Securities are convertible into shares of common stock, par value $0.50 per share, of the Company (the "Common Stock") in accordance with the terms, and subject to the conditions, of the Securities and the Indenture, at the initial conversion rate specified in Schedule B hereto.
     Concurrently with the offering and sale of the Securities by the Company pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, the Company is offering to sell up to 26,162,500 shares of its common stock (including shares subject to the underwriters' over-allotment option) (the "Shares"), pursuant to the terms of an
 
Underwriting Agreement, dated as of even date herewith, among the Company, Merrill Lynch, J.P. Morgan and the other underwriters named therein (the "Concurrent Equity Offering").
     The Company understands that the Underwriters propose to make a public offering of the Securities as soon as the Representatives deem advisable after this Agreement has been executed and delivered and the form of the Indenture has been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "1939 Act").
     The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") an automatic shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-140778), including the related preliminary prospectus or prospectuses, which registration statement became effective upon filing under Rule 462(e) of the rules and regulations of the Commission (the "1933 Act Regulations") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act"). Such registration statement covers the registration of the Securities under the 1933 Act. Promptly after execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Company will prepare and file a prospectus in accordance with the provisions of Rule 430B ("Rule 430B") of the 1933 Act Regulations and paragraph (b) of Rule 424 ("Rule 424(b)") of the 1933 Act Regulations. Any information included in such prospectus that was omitted from such registration statement at the time it became effective but that is deemed to be part of and included in such registration statement pursuant to Rule 430B is referred to as "Rule 430B Information." Each prospectus used in connection with the offering of the Securities that omitted Rule 430B Information is herein called a "preliminary prospectus." Such registration statement, at any given time, including the amendments thereto at such time, the exhibits and any schedules thereto at such time, the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the 1933 Act at such time and the documents otherwise deemed to be a part thereof or included therein by 1933 Act Regulations, is herein called the "Registration Statement." The Registration Statement at the time it originally became effective is herein called the "Original Registration Statement." The final prospectus in the form first furnished to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Securities, including the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the 1933 Act at the time of the execution of this Agreement and any preliminary prospectuses that form a part thereof, is herein called the "Prospectus." For purposes of this Agreement, all references to the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus, the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement to any of the foregoing shall be deemed to include the copy filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system ("EDGAR").
     All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or other references of like import) shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is incorporated by reference in or otherwise deemed by 1933 Act Regulations to be a part of or included in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934 Act") which is incorporated by reference in or otherwise deemed by 1933 Act Regulations to be a part of or included in the Registration Statement, such preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be.
     SECTION 1. Representations and Warranties.
     (a) . The Company and Guarantors jointly and severally represent and warrant to each Underwriter as of the date hereof, the Applicable Time referred to in Section 1(a)(iii) hereof, as of the Closing Time referred to in Section 2(c), and agrees with each Underwriter, as follows:
Representations and Warranties
 
     (i) . (A) At the time of filing the Original Registration Statement, (B) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the 1933 Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the 1934 Act or form of prospectus), (C) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the 1933 Act Regulations) made any offer relating to the Securities in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the 1933 Act Regulations ("Rule 163") and (D) at the date hereof, the Company was and is a "well-known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act Regulations ("Rule 405"), including not having been and not being an "ineligible issuer" as defined in Rule 405. The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405, and the Securities, since their registration on the Registration Statement, have been and remain eligible for registration by the Company on a Rule 405 "automatic shelf registration statement" pursuant to Rule 415(a)(1)(x). The Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the 1933 Act Regulations objecting to the use of the automatic shelf registration statement form.
Status as a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
     (ii) At the time of filing the Original Registration Statement, at the earliest time thereafter that the Company or another offering participant made a offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2) of the 1933 Act Regulations) of the Securities and at the date hereof, the Company was not and is not an "ineligible issuer," as defined in Rule 405.
bona fide
     (iii) . The Original Registration Statement became effective upon filing under Rule 462(e) of the 1933 Act Regulations ("Rule 462(e)") on February 20, 2007, and any post-effective amendment thereto also became effective upon filing under Rule 462(e). No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the 1933 Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are contemplated by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with.
Registration Statement, Prospectus and Disclosure at Time of Sale
     Any offer that is a written communication relating to the Securities made prior to the filing of the Original Registration Statement by the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this paragraph only, of Rule 163(c) of the 1933 Act Regulations) has been filed with the Commission in accordance with the exemption provided by Rule 163 and otherwise complied with the requirements of Rule 163, including without limitation the legending requirement, to qualify such offer for the exemption from Section 5(c) of the 1933 Act provided by Rule 163.
     At the respective times the Original Registration Statement and each amendment thereto became effective, at each deemed effective date with respect to the Underwriters pursuant to Rule 430B(f)(2) of the 1933 Act Regulations and at the Closing Time, the Registration Statement complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations and the 1939 Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission under the 1939 Act (the "1939 Act Regulations"), and did not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
     Neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto, at the time the Prospectus or any such amendment or supplement was issued and at the Closing Time, included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact
 
necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
     Each preliminary prospectus (including the prospectus or prospectuses filed as part of the Original Registration Statement or any amendment thereto) complied when so filed in all material respects with the 1933 Act Regulations and each such preliminary prospectus was and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with this offering will be identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
     As of the Applicable Time, the Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses (as defined below) issued at or prior to the Applicable Time, as the case may be, the Statutory Prospectus (as defined below) and the information included on Schedule B hereto, all considered together (collectively, the "General Disclosure Package"), when considered together with the General Disclosure Package, did not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
     As of the time of the filing of the Final Term Sheet, the General Disclosure Package, when considered together with the Final Term Sheet, will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
     As used in this subsection and elsewhere in this Agreement:
     "Applicable Time" means 7:00 am (Eastern time) on March 2, 2007 or such other time as agreed by the Company and the Representatives.
     "Issuer Free Writing Prospectus" means any "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433 of the 1933 Act Regulations ("Rule 433"), relating to the Securities that (i) is required to be filed with the Commission by the Company, (ii) is a "road show that is a written communication" within the meaning of Rule 433(d)(8)(i), whether or not required to be filed with the Commission or (iii) is exempt from filing pursuant to Rule 433(d)(5)(i) because it contains a description of the Securities or of the offering that does not reflect the final terms, in each case in the form filed or required to be filed with the Commission or, if not required to be filed, in the form retained in the Company's records pursuant to Rule 433(g).
     "Statutory Prospectus" as of any time means the prospectus relating to the Securities that is included in the Registration Statement immediately prior to that time, including any document incorporated by reference therein and any preliminary or other prospectus deemed to be a part thereof.
     Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the public offer and sale of the Securities or until any earlier date that the issuer notified or notifies Merrill Lynch as described in Section 3(e), did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus, including any document incorporated by reference therein and any preliminary or other prospectus deemed to be a part thereof that has not been superseded or modified.
 
     The representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through Merrill Lynch expressly for use therein.
     (iv) . The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied, and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations or the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (the "1934 Act Regulations"), as applicable, and, when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, (a) at the time the Original Registration Statement became effective, (b) at the earlier of the time the Prospectus was first used and the date and time of the first contract of sale of Securities in this offering and (c) at the Closing Time, did not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
Incorporated Documents
     (v) . Deloitte & Touche LLP, the accountants who certified the financial statements and supporting schedules included in the Registration Statement have indicated in writing that they are independent public accountants as required by the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations.
Independent Accountants
     (vi) . The financial statements included in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, together with the related schedules and notes present fairly the financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries at the dates indicated and the statement of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries for the periods specified; said financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved. The supporting schedules, if any, included in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus present fairly in accordance with GAAP the information required to be stated therein. The selected financial data and the summary financial information, other than the pro forma financial data, included in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus have been derived from the historical financial statements included in the Prospectus. The pro forma financial data of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries included in the Prospectus, have been prepared in accordance with the Commission's rules and guidelines with respect to pro forma financial statements and have been properly compiled on such basis; the assumptions used in the preparation thereof and the adjustments used therein are appropriate to give effect to the transactions and on the dates indicated in the Prospectus.
Financial Statements
     (vii) . Since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, except as otherwise stated therein, (A) there has been no material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business (a "Material Adverse Effect"), (B) there have been no transactions entered into by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, other than those in the ordinary course of business, which are material with respect to the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, and (C) except for regular quarterly dividends on the Common Stock and as described in the Prospectus, there has been no dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company on any class of its capital stock.
No Material Adverse Change in Business
 
     (viii) . The Company has been duly organized and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Registration Statement and Prospectus and to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement; and the Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each other jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure so to qualify or to be in good standing would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Good Standing of the Company
     (ix) . Each subsidiary listed on Schedule C hereto (each a "Designated Subsidiary" and, collectively, the "Designated Subsidiaries") has been duly organized and is validly existing as a corporation or limited liability company in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its formation, has corporate or other power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Registration Statement and Prospectus and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation or limited liability company to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure so to qualify or to be in good standing would not result in a Material Adverse Effect; except as otherwise disclosed in the Registration Statement, Prospectus or General Disclosure Package, all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each Designated Subsidiary has been duly authorized and validly issued, is fully paid and non-assessable and is owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, claim or equity; none of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Designated Subsidiaries was issued in violation of any preemptive or similar rights of any securityholder of such Designated Subsidiary. The subsidiaries of the Company other than Designated Subsidiaries, considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, do not constitute a "significant subsidiary" as defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X.
Good Standing of Designated Subsidiaries
     (x) . The authorized, issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company is as set forth in the Prospectus in the column entitled "Actual" under the caption "Capitalization" (except for subsequent issuances, if any, pursuant to this Agreement, pursuant to reservations, agreements, employee benefit plans referred to in the Prospectus or pursuant to the exercise of convertible securities or options referred to in the Prospectus). The shares of issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and non-assessable; none of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company was issued in violation of the preemptive or other similar rights of any securityholder of the Company.
Capitalization
     (xi) . This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and the Guarantors.
Authorization of Agreement
     (xii) . The Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and the Guarantors and, when executed and delivered by the Company and the Guarantors (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee), will constitute a valid and binding agreement of the Company and each of the Guarantors, enforceable against the Company and each of the Guarantors in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting enforcement of creditors' rights generally and except as enforcement thereof is subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
Authorization of the Indenture
 
     (xiii) . The Notes have been duly authorized and, at Closing Time, will have been duly executed by the Company and, when authenticated, issued and delivered in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the purchase price therefor as provided in this Agreement, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfers) reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting enforcement of creditors' rights generally and except as enforcement thereof is subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law), and will be in the form contemplated by, and entitled to the benefits of, the Indenture.
Authorization of the Notes
     (xiv) . The Securities and the Indenture will conform in all material respects to the respective statements relating thereto contained in the Prospectus and will be in substantially the respective forms filed or incorporated by reference, as the case may be, as exhibits to the Registration Statement.
Description of the Securities and Indenture
     (xv) . The Common Stock conforms to all statements relating thereto contained or incorporated by reference in the Prospectus and such description of the Common Stock conforms to the rights set forth in the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws. Upon issuance and delivery of the Securities in accordance with this Agreement and the Indenture, the Securities will be convertible at the option of the holder thereof for shares of Common Stock in accordance with the terms of the Securities and the Indenture; the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities have been duly authorized and reserved for issuance upon such conversion by all necessary corporate action and such shares, when issued upon such conversion in accordance with the terms of the Securities and the Indenture, will be validly issued and will be fully paid and non-assessable; no holder of such shares will be subject to personal liability by reason of being such a holder; and the issuance of such shares upon such conversion will not be subject to the preemptive or other similar rights of any securityholder of the Company.
Authorization and Description of Common Stock
     (xvi) . Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is (a) in violation of its charter or by-laws or (b) in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any contract, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, note, lease or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound, or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject (collectively, "Agreements and Instruments") except for defaults that would not result in a Material Adverse Effect; and the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Indenture and the Securities and any other agreement or instrument entered into or issued or to be entered into or issued by the Company in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or in the Prospectus and the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein and in the Prospectus (including the issuance and sale of the Securities and the use of the proceeds from the sale of the Securities as described in the Prospectus under the caption "Use of Proceeds") and the Concurrent Equity Offering and compliance by the Company and the Guarantors with their obligations hereunder have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other action and do not and will not, whether with or without the giving of notice or passage of time or both, conflict with or constitute a breach of, or default or Repayment Event (as defined below) under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, the Agreements and Instruments except for such conflicts, breaches or defaults or Repayment Events or liens, charges or encumbrances that, singly or in the aggregate, would not result in a Material Adverse Effect, nor
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts
 
will such action result in any violation of (x) the provisions of the charter or by-laws of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or (y) any applicable law, statute, rule, regulation, judgment, order, writ or decree of any government, government instrumentality or court, domestic or foreign, having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their assets, properties or operations, except in the case of clause (y) above, any such violations that, singly or in the aggregate, would not result in a Material Adverse Effect. As used herein, a "Repayment Event" means any event or condition which gives the holder of any note, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness (or any person acting on such holder's behalf) the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or a portion of such indebtedness by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
     (xvii) . No labor dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists or, to the knowledge of the Company, is imminent, and the Company is not aware of any existing or imminent labor disturbance by the employees of any of its or any subsidiary's principal suppliers, manufacturers, customers or contractors, which, in either case, would result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Labor Dispute
     (xviii) . Except as described in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and except such matters as would not, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, rule, regulation, ordinance, code, policy or rule of common law or any judicial or administrative interpretation thereof, including any judicial or administrative order, consent, decree or judgment. Except as described in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there is no action, suit, proceeding, inquiry or investigation before or brought by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign, now pending, or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened, against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries which might result in a Material Adverse Effect, or which might materially and adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, the Concurrent Equity Offering or the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder or thereunder, as applicable. The aggregate of all pending legal or governmental proceedings to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any of their respective property or assets is the subject which are not described in the Registration Statement or Prospectus, including ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws; Absence of Proceedings
     (xix) . There are no contracts or documents which are required to be described in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package, the Prospectus or the documents incorporated by reference therein or to be filed as exhibits thereto which have not been so described and filed as required.
Accuracy of Exhibits
     (xx) . All United States federal income tax returns of the Company and its subsidiaries required by law to be filed have been filed or extensions thereof have been duly requested and all taxes shown by such returns or otherwise assessed, which are due and payable, have been paid, except assessments against which appeals have been or will be promptly taken and as to which adequate reserves have been provided or where the failure to pay would not result in a Material Adverse Effect. The Company and its subsidiaries have filed all other tax returns that are required to have been filed by them pursuant to applicable foreign, state, local or other law except insofar as the failure to file such returns would not result in a Material Adverse Effect, and has paid all taxes due pursuant to such returns or pursuant to any assessment received by the Company and its subsidiaries, except for such taxes, if any, as are being contested in good faith and as to which adequate reserves have been provided or where the failure to pay would not result
Taxes
 
in a Material Adverse Effect. The charges, accruals and reserves on the books of the Company in respect of any income and corporation tax liability for any years not finally determined are adequate to meet any assessments or re-assessments for additional income tax for any years not finally determined, except to the extent of any inadequacy that would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
     (xxi) . The Company and its subsidiaries maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (A) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorization, (B) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain accountability for assets, (C) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization and (D) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
Internal Controls
     (xxii) . The Company and its subsidiaries carry or are entitled to the benefits of insurance, with financially sound and reputable insurers, in such amounts and covering such risks as is generally maintained by companies of established repute engaged in the same or similar business, and all such insurance is in full force and effect.
Insurance
     (xxiii) . The Company is, and immediately after the Closing Time will be, Solvent. As used herein, the term "Solvent" means, with respect to the Company on a particular date, that on such date (A) the fair market value of the assets of the Company is greater than the total amount of liabilities (including contingent liabilities) of the Company, (B) the present fair salable value of the assets of the Company is greater than the amount that will be required to pay the probable liabilities of the Company on its debts as they become absolute and matured, (C) the Company is able to realize upon its assets and pay its debts and other liabilities, including contingent obligations, as they mature, and (D) the Company does not have unreasonably small capital.
Solvency
     (xxiv) . Neither the Company nor any affiliate of the Company has taken, nor will the Company or any affiliate take, directly or indirectly, any action which is designed to or which has constituted or which would be expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
Absence of Manipulation
     (xxv) . Except as described in the Registration Statement, General Disclosure Package and Prospectus, the Company and its subsidiaries own or possess, or can acquire on reasonable terms, adequate patents, patent rights, licenses, inventions, copyrights, know-how (including trade secrets and other unpatented and/or unpatentable proprietary or confidential information, systems or procedures), trademarks, service marks, trade names or other intellectual property (collectively, "Intellectual Property") necessary to carry on the business now operated by them, and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any notice or is otherwise aware of any infringement of or conflict with asserted rights of others with respect to any Intellectual Property or of any facts or circumstances which would render any Intellectual Property invalid or inadequate to protect the interest of the Company or any of its subsidiaries therein, and which infringement or conflict (if the subject of any unfavorable decision, ruling or finding) or invalidity or inadequacy, singly or in the aggregate, would result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Possession of Intellectual Property
     (xxvi) . Except as disclosed in the Registration Statement, General Disclosure Package and Prospectus and other than registration or qualification
Absence of Further Requirements
 
under state securities or blue sky laws in connection with the offer and sale of the Securities, no filing with, or authorization, approval, consent, license, order, registration, qualification or decree of, any court or governmental authority or agency is necessary or required for the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder, in connection with the offering, issuance or sale of the Securities hereunder, the issuance of shares of Common Stock upon conversion of the Securities or the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or for the due execution, delivery or performance of the Indenture by the Company and the Guarantors, except such as have been already obtained.
     (xxvii) . Except as described in the Registration Statement, General Disclosure Package and Prospectus, the Company and its subsidiaries possess such permits, licenses, approvals, consents and other authorizations (collectively, "Governmental Licenses") issued by the appropriate federal, state, local or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct the business now operated by them, except where the failure so to possess would not, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect; the Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms and conditions of all such Governmental Licenses, except where the failure so to comply would not, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect; all of the Governmental Licenses are valid and in full force and effect, except where the invalidity of such Governmental Licenses or the failure of such Governmental Licenses to be in full force and effect would not, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect; and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any such Governmental Licenses which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Possession of Licenses and Permits
     (xxviii) . The Company and its subsidiaries have good and marketable title to all real property owned by the Company and its subsidiaries and good title to all other properties owned by them, in each case, free and clear of all mortgages, pledges, liens, security interests, claims, restrictions or encumbrances of any kind except such as (a) are described in the Registration Statement and Prospectus or (b) do not, singly or in the aggregate, materially affect the value of such property and do not interfere with the use made and proposed to be made of such property by the Company or any of its subsidiaries; and all of the leases and subleases material to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one enterprise, and under which the Company or any of its subsidiaries holds properties described in the Registration Statement and Prospectus, are in full force and effect, except where the failure of such lease or sublease to be in full force and effect would not singly or in the aggregate result in a Material Adverse Effect, and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has any notice of any material claim of any sort that has been asserted by anyone adverse to the rights of the Company or any of its subsidiaries under any of the leases or subleases mentioned above, or affecting or questioning the rights of the Company or any subsidiary thereof to the continued possession of the leased or subleased premises under any such lease or sublease.
Title to Property
     (xxix) . Except as would not singly or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect, no supplier of merchandise to the Company or any of its subsidiaries has ceased shipments of merchandise to the Company.
No Cessation By Supplier
     (xxx) . No relationship, direct or indirect, exists between or among any of the Company or any affiliate of the Company, on the one hand, and any director, officer, stockholder, customer or supplier of any of them, on the other hand, which would be required by the 1933 Act or by the 1933 Act Regulations to be described in the Registration Statement or Prospectus which is not described in the Registration Statement and Prospectus.
No Undisclosed Relationships
 
     (xxxi) . Except as described in the Registration Statement, General Disclosure Package and Prospectus and except such matters as would not, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect, (A) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, rule, regulation, ordinance, code, policy or rule of common law or any judicial or administrative interpretation thereof, including any judicial or administrative order, consent, decree or judgment, relating to pollution or protection of human health, the environment (including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata) or wildlife, including, without limitation, laws and regulations relating to the release or threatened release of chemicals, pollutants, contaminants, wastes, toxic substances, hazardous substances, petroleum or petroleum products, asbestos-containing materials or mold (collectively, "Hazardous Materials") or to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of Hazardous Materials (collectively, "Environmental Laws"), (B) the Company and its subsidiaries have all permits, authorizations and approvals required under any applicable Environmental Laws and are each in compliance with their requirements, (C) there are no pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened administrative, regulatory or judicial actions, suits, demands, demand letters, claims, liens, notices of noncompliance or violation, investigation or proceedings relating to any Environmental Law against the Company or any of its subsidiaries and (D) there are no events or circumstances that would reasonably be expected to form the basis of an order for clean-up or remediation, or an action, suit or proceeding by any private party or governmental body or agency, against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries relating to Hazardous Materials or Environmental Laws.
Environmental Laws
     (xxxii) . The Company is not required, and upon the issuance and sale of the offered Securities as herein contemplated and the application of the net proceeds therefrom as described in the Prospectus will not be required, to register as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "1940 Act").
Investment Company Act
     (xxxiii) . The Registration Statement is not the subject of a pending proceeding or examination under Section 8(d) or 8(e) of the 1933 Act, and the Company is not the subject of a pending proceeding under Section 8A of the 1933 Act in connection with the offering of the Securities.
Pending Proceedings and Examinations
     (b) . Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters covered thereby.
Officer's Certificates
     SECTION 2. .
Sale and Delivery to Underwriters; Closing
     (a) . On the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained and subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Company agrees to sell to each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, and each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, agrees to purchase from the Company, at the price set forth in Schedule B, the aggregate principal amount of Initial Notes set forth in Schedule A opposite the name of such Underwriter, plus any additional principal amount of Initial Notes which such Underwriter may become obligated to purchase pursuant to the provisions of Section 10 hereof.
Initial Notes
     (b) . In addition, on the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained and subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Company hereby grants an option to the Underwriters, severally and not jointly, to purchase $50,000,000 principal amount of Option Notes at the same price set forth in Schedule B for the Initial Notes, plus accrued interest, if any, from the Closing
Option Notes
 
Date to the Additional Closing Time. The option hereby granted will expire 13 days after the date hereof and may be exercised in whole or in part from time to time (but not more than two (2) times without the written consent of the Company) only for the purpose of covering overallotments which may be made in connection with the offering and distribution of the Initial Notes upon written notice by the Representatives to the Company setting forth the number of Option Notes as to which the several Underwriters are then exercising the option and the time and date of payment and delivery for such Option Notes. Any such time and date of delivery (an "Additional Closing Time") shall be determined by the Representatives, but shall not be later than seven full business days after the exercise of said option, nor in any event prior to the Closing Time, as hereinafter defined. If the option is exercised as to all or any portion of the Option Notes, each of the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, will purchase that proportion of the aggregate principal amount of Option Notes then being purchased which the principal amount of Initial Notes set forth in Schedule A opposite the name of such Underwriter bears to the aggregate principal amount of Initial Notes.
     (c) . Payment of the purchase price for, and delivery of certificates for, the Securities shall be made at the offices of Cahill Gordon & Reindel , 80 Pine Street, New York, New York 10005, or at such other place as shall be agreed upon by the Representatives and the Company, at 9:00 A.M. (Eastern time) on the third (fourth, if the Applicable Time occurs after 4:30 P.M. (Eastern time) on any given day) business day after the date hereof (unless postponed in accordance with the provisions of Section 10), or such other time not later than ten business days after such date as shall be agreed upon by the Representatives and the Company (such time and date of payment and delivery being herein called "Closing Time").
Payment
llp
     Payment shall be made to the Company by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account designated by the Company, against delivery to the Representatives for the respective accounts of the Underwriters of certificates for the Securities to be purchased by them. It is understood that each Underwriter has authorized the Representatives, for their account, to accept delivery of, receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Initial Notes and the Option Notes, if any, which it has agreed to purchase. Merrill Lynch, individually and not as representative of the Underwriters, may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment of the purchase price for the Securities to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds have not been received by the Closing Time or the applicable Additional Closing Time, as applicable, but such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from its obligations hereunder.
     (d) . Certificates for the Securities shall be in such denominations and registered in such names as the Representatives may request in writing at least one full business day before the Closing Time. The Securities will be made available for examination and packaging by the Representatives in The City of New York not later than 10:00 A.M. (Eastern time) on the business day prior to the Closing Time.
Denominations; Registration
     SECTION 3. . The Company covenants with each Underwriter as follows:
Covenants of the Company
     (a) . The Company, subject to Section 3(b), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B and will notify the Representatives immediately, and confirm the notice in writing, (i) when any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or new registration statement relating to the Securities shall become effective, or any supplement to the Prospectus or any amended Prospectus shall have been filed, (ii) of the receipt of any comments from the Commission, (iii) of
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests; Payment of Filing Fees
 
any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of a new registration statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or any document incorporated by reference therein or otherwise deemed to be a part thereof or for additional information, (iv) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or such new registration statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of any preliminary prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes or of any examination pursuant to Section 8(e) of the 1933 Act concerning the Registration Statement and (v) if the Company becomes the subject of a proceeding under Section 8A of the 1933 Act in connection with the offering of the Securities. The Company will effect the filings required under Rule 424(b), in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b) (without reliance on Rule 424(b)(8)), and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the form of prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424(b) was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file such prospectus. The Company will make every reasonable effort to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment. The Company shall pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Securities within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1) (i) of the 1933 Act Regulations without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r) of the 1933 Act Regulations (including, if applicable, by updating the "Calculation of Registration Fee" table in accordance with Rule 456(b)(1)(ii) either in a post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or on the cover page of a prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b)).
     (b) . The Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement or new registration statement relating to the Securities or any amendment, supplement or revision to either any preliminary prospectus (including any prospectus included in the Original Registration Statement or amendment thereto at the time it became effective) or to the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act or otherwise, and the Company will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall object. The Company has given the Representatives notice of any filings made pursuant to the 1934 Act or 1934 Act Regulations within 48 hours prior to the Applicable Time; the Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to make any such filing from the Applicable Time to the Closing Time (or if later, to the date of expiration of the option granted to the Underwriters pursuant to Section 2(b)) and will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall object. The Company will prepare a final term sheet (the "Final Term Sheet") reflecting the final terms of the Securities, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, and shall file such Final Term Sheet as an "issuer free writing prospectus" pursuant to Rule 433 prior to the close of business two business days after the date hereof; provided that the Company shall furnish the Representatives with copies of any such Final Term Sheet a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing and will not use or file any such document to which the Representatives or counsel to the Underwriters shall object.
Filing of Amendments and Exchange Act Documents; Preparation of Final Term Sheet
     (c) . The Company has furnished or will deliver to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, signed copies of the Original Registration Statement and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be
Delivery of Registration Statements
 
incorporated by reference therein or otherwise deemed to be a part thereof) and signed copies of all consents and certificates of experts, and will also deliver to the Representatives, without charge, a conformed copy of the Original Registration Statement and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters. The copies of the Original Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
     (d) . The Company has delivered to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of each preliminary prospectus as such Underwriter reasonably requested, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the 1933 Act. The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the period when the Prospectus is required to be delivered under the 1933 Act, such number of copies of the Prospectus (as amended or supplemented) as such Underwriter may reasonably request. The Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Prospectuses
     (e) . The Company will comply with the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations, the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations and the 1939 Act and the 1939 Act Regulations so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Securities as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Prospectus. If at any time when a prospectus is required by the 1933 Act to be delivered in connection with sales of the Securities, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Prospectus in order that the Prospectus will not include any untrue statements of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading in the light of the circumstances existing at the time it is delivered to a purchaser, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or to file a new registration statement or amend or supplement the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of the 1933 Act or the 1933 Act Regulations, the Company will promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b), such amendment, supplement or new registration statement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to comply with such requirements, the Company will use its best efforts to have such amendment or new registration statement declared effective as soon as practicable (if it is not an automatic shelf registration statement with respect to the Securities) and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters such number of copies of such amendment, supplement or new registration statement as the Underwriters may reasonably request. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement (or any other registration statement relating to the Securities) or the Statutory Prospectus or any preliminary prospectus or included or would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or would omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances prevailing at that subsequent time, not misleading, the Company will promptly notify Merrill Lynch and will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict, untrue statement or omission.
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
     (f) . The Company will use its best efforts, in cooperation with the Underwriters, to qualify the Securities for offering and sale under the applicable securities laws of such states and other jurisdictions as the Representatives may designate and to
Blue Sky Qualifications
 
maintain such qualifications in effect for a period of not less than one year from the date hereof; provided, however, that the Company shall not be obligated to file any general consent to service of process or to qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction in which it is not so qualified or so subject itself to taxation in respect of doing business in any jurisdiction in which it is not otherwise so subject. The Company will also supply the Underwriters with such information as is necessary for the determination of the legality of the Securities for investment under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Underwriters may request.
     (g) . The Company will timely file such reports pursuant to the 1934 Act as are necessary in order to make generally available to its securityholders as soon as practicable an earnings statement for the purposes of, and to provide to the Underwriters the benefits contemplated by, the last paragraph of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act.
Rule 158
     (h) . The Company will use the net proceeds received by it from the sale of the Securities in the manner specified in the Prospectus under "Use of Proceeds."
Use of Proceeds
     (i) . The Company will use its best efforts to effect the listing of the Securities and the Common Shares issuable upon conversion of the Securities on the New York Stock Exchange subject to official notice of issuance.
Listing
     (j) . During a period of 90 days from the date of this Agreement, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Merrill Lynch, directly or indirectly, issue, sell, offer or contract to sell, grant any option for the sale of, or otherwise transfer or dispose of, any debt securities of the Company.
Restriction on Sale of Securities
     (k) . The Company, during the period when the Prospectus is required to be delivered under the 1933 Act, will file all documents required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to the 1934 Act within the time periods required by the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations.
Reporting Requirements
     (l) The Company represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Representatives, and each Underwriter represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Company and the Representatives, it has not made and will not make any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 405, required to be filed with the Commission; provided, however, that prior to the preparation of the Final Term Sheet in accordance with Section 3(b), the Underwriters are authorized to use the information with respect to the final terms of the Securities in communications conveying information relating to the offering to investors. Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Company and the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "Permitted Free Writing Prospectus." The Company represents that it has treated or agrees that it will treat each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, and has complied and will comply with the requirements of Rule 433 applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including timely filing with the Commission where required, legending and record keeping.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses.
     (m) . During a period of 90 days from the date of this Agreement, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of Merrill Lynch, (i) directly or indirectly, offer, pledge, sell, contract to sell, sell any option or contract to purchase, purchase any option or contract to sell, grant any option, right or warrant to purchase or otherwise transfer or dispose of any share of Common Stock or any securities convertible into or
Restriction on Sale of Common Stock
 
exercisable or exchangeable for Common Stock or file any registration statement under the 1933 Act with respect to any of the foregoing or (ii) enter into any swap or any other agreement or any transaction that transfers, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, the economic consequence of ownership of the Common Stock, whether any such swap or transaction described in clause (i) or (ii) above is to be settled by delivery of Common Stock or such other securities, in cash or otherwise. The foregoing sentence shall not apply to the Securities to be sold hereunder, or to the following:
          (i) any transaction involving, including any repurchase, redemption or conversion of, the Securities;
          (ii) the issuance by the Company to its employees or directors of options, warrants or other rights to purchase Common Stock or other equity awards in shares of Common Stock under any of the Company's equity incentive or compensation plans in effect as of the Closing Date;
          (iii) the purchase by the Company of call options, and the sale by the Company of warrants, each in connection with convertible note hedge transactions entered into in connection with the sale of the Securities, and any transactions in the Company's securities contemplated by such call options or warrants;
          (iv) any registration statement filed with the SEC (A) on Form S-8 with respect to securities to be issued pursuant to any employee benefit plan (as defined in Rule 405 under the 1933 Act) and (B) on Form S-4 with respect to any business combination or other acquisition of another business; and
          (v) the Concurrent Equity Offering.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if:
     (1) during the last 17 days of the Lock-Up Period, the Company issues an earnings release or material news or a material event relating to the Company occurs; or
     (2) prior to the expiration of the Lock-Up Period, the Company announces that it will release earnings results or becomes aware that material news or a material event will occur during the 16-day period beginning on the last day of the Lock-Up Period,
the restrictions imposed by this clause (m) shall continue to apply until the expiration of the 18-day period beginning on the issuance of the earnings release or the occurrence of the material news or material event, as applicable, unless Merrill Lynch waives, in writing, such extension.
     SECTION 4. .
Payment of Expenses
     (a) . The Company will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including (i) the preparation, printing and filing of the Registration Statement (including financial statements and exhibits) as originally filed and of each amendment thereto, (ii) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of this Agreement, any Agreement among Underwriters, the Indenture and such other documents as may be required in connection with the offering, purchase, sale, issuance or delivery of the Securities or the issuance or delivery of the Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof, (iii) the preparation, issuance and delivery of the certificates for the Securities to the Underwriters and the Certificates for the Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof, (iv) the fees and disbursements of the Company's counsel, accountants and other advisors, (v) the qualification
Expenses
 
of the Securities and the Common Stock under securities laws in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(f) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection therewith and in connection with the preparation of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplement thereto, (vi) the printing and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of each preliminary prospectus, any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus and of the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto and any costs associated with electronic delivery of any of the foregoing by the Underwriters to investors, (vii) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplement thereto, (viii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Securities, (ix) the costs and expenses of the Company relating to investor presentations on any "road show" undertaken in connection with the marketing of the Securities, including without limitation, expenses associated with the production of road show slides and graphics, reasonable fees and expenses of any consultants engaged in connection with the road show presentations, travel and lodging expenses of the representatives and officers of the Company and any such consultants, and the cost of aircraft and other transportation chartered in connection with the road show, (x) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Securities, (xi) the fees and expenses of any transfer agent or registrar for the Common Stock, (xii) the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing of the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities on the New York Stock Exchange and (xiii) the costs and expenses (including without limitation any damages or other amounts payable in connection with legal or contractual liability) associated with the reforming of any contracts for sale of the Securities made by the Underwriters caused by a breach of the representation contained in the sixth paragraph of Section 1(a)(iii). It is understood, however, that except as provided in this Section 4 and Sections 6, 8 and 9, the Underwriters will pay all of their own costs and expenses including the fees and expenses of Cahill Gordon & Reindel and Sidley Austin LLP, counsel to the Underwriters.
llp
     (b) . If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives in accordance with the provisions of Section 5 or Section 9(a)(i) hereof, the Company shall reimburse the Underwriters for all of their out-of-pocket expenses, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters.
Termination of Agreement
     SECTION 5. . The obligations of the several Underwriters hereunder are subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company and the Guarantors contained in Section 1 hereof or in certificates of any officer of the Company and the Guarantors or any subsidiary of the Company delivered pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company and the Guarantors of their covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to the following further conditions:
Conditions of Underwriters' Obligations
     (a) . The Registration Statement has become effective and at Closing Time no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the 1933 Act or proceedings therefor initiated or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters. A prospectus containing the Rule 430B Information shall have been filed with the Commission in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b) without reliance on Rule 424(b)(8) (or a post-effective amendment providing such information shall have been filed and become effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430B). The Company shall have paid the required Commission filing fees relating to the Securities within the time period required by Rule 456(1)(i) of the 1933 Act Regulations without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r) of the 1933 Act Regulations and, if applicable, shall have updated the "Calculation of Registration Fee" table in
Effectiveness of Registration Statement; Filing of Prospectus; Payment of Filing Fee
 
accordance with Rule 456(b)(1)(ii) either in a post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or on the cover page of a prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b).
     (b) . At Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of Closing Time, of (i) Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, special counsel for the Company, (ii) Kristin A. Kolesar Esq., Corporate Counsel of the Company, and (iii) Roger L. Foster, Esq., Corporate Counsel of the Company, in each case in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters to the effect set forth in Exhibit A, B and C heretorespectively. Either such counsel may state that, insofar as such opinion involves factual matters, such counsel has relied, to the extent such counsel deemed proper, upon certificates of officers of the Company and its subsidiaries and certificates of public officials.
Opinion of Counsel for Company
,
     (c) . At Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of Closing Time, of (i) Cahill Gordon & Reindel and (ii) Sidley Austin LLP, each counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letters for each of the other Underwriters. Any such counsel may also state that, insofar as such opinion involves factual matters, they have relied, to the extent they deem proper, upon certificates of officers of the Company and its subsidiaries and certificates of public officials.
Opinion of Counsel for Underwriters
llp
     (d) . At Closing Time, there shall not have been, since the date hereof or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus or the General Disclosure Package, any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, and the Representatives shall have received a certificate of the President or a Vice President of the Company and of the chief financial or chief accounting officer of the Company, dated as of Closing Time, to the effect that (i) there has been no such material adverse change, (ii) the representations and warranties in Section 1(a) hereof are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made at and as of Closing Time, (iii) the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to Closing Time, and (iv) no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to their knowledge, contemplated by the Commission.
Officers' Certificate
     (e) . At the time of the execution of this Agreement, the Representatives shall have received letters dated such date from (i) Deloitte & Touche LLP and (ii) Deloitte, Haskins & Sells, each in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letters for each of the other Underwriters containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus.
Accountants' Comfort Letters
     (f) . At Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received letters, dated as of Closing Time, from (i) Deloitte & Touche LLP and (ii) Deloitte, Haskins & Sells, each to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letters furnished pursuant to subsection (e) of this Section, except that the specified date referred to shall be a date not more than three business days prior to Closing Time.
Bring-down Comfort Letters
 
     (g) . Since the date of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred a downgrading in the rating assigned to the Securities or any of the Company's other debt by any "nationally recognized statistical rating agency," as that term is defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the 1933 Act, and no such organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review, in the possible negative implications, its rating of the Securities or any of the Company's other debt.
Maintenance of Rating
     (h) . At Closing Time, the Securities and the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities shall have been approved for listing on the New York Stock Exchange, subject only to official notice of issuance.
Approval of Listing
     (i) . At the Closing Time, counsel for the Underwriters shall have been furnished with such documents and opinions as they may require for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations or warranties, or the fulfillment of any of the conditions, herein contained; and all proceedings taken by the Company in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated shall be satisfactory in form and substance to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters.
Additional Documents
     (j) . At the date of this Agreement, the Representatives shall have received an agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit D hereto signed by the persons listed on Schedule D hereto.
Lock-up Agreements
     (k) . In the event that the Representatives exercise their option provided in Section 2(b) hereof to purchase all or any portion of the Option Notes, the representations and warranties of the Company contained herein and the statements in any certificates furnished by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company hereunder shall be true and correct as of each Additional Closing Time and, at the relevant Additional Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received:
Conditions to Purchase of Option Notes
     (i) Officers' Certificate. A certificate, dated such Additional Closing Time, of the President or a Vice President of the Company and of the chief financial or chief accounting officer of the Company and each Guarantor confirming that the certificate delivered at the Closing Time pursuant to Section 5(d) hereof remains true and correct as of such Additional Closing Time.
     (ii) Opinion of Counsel for Company. The favorable opinions, dated as of the Additional Closing Time, of (i) Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, special counsel for the Company, (ii) Kristin A. Kolesar, Esq., Corporate Counsel of the Company, and (iii) Roger L. Foster, Esq., Corporate Counsel of the Company in each case, in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, dated such Additional Closing Time, relating to the Option Notes to be purchased on such Additional Closing Time and otherwise to the same effect as the opinion required by Section 5(b) hereof.
     (iii) Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters. The favorable opinion of (i) Cahill Gordon & Reindel and (ii) Sidley Austin , each counsel for the Underwriters , each dated such Additional Closing Time, relating to the Option Notes to be purchased on such Additional Closing Time and otherwise to the same effect as the opinion required by Section 5(c) hereof.
llp
llp
 
     (iv) Bring-down Comfort Letter. A letter from Deloitte & Touche LLP, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives and dated such Additional Closing Time, substantially in the same form and substance as the letter furnished to the Representatives pursuant to Section 5(f) hereof, except that the "specified date" in the letter furnished pursuant to this paragraph shall be a date not more than five days prior to such Additional Closing Time.
     (v) No Downgrading. Subsequent to the date of this Agreement, no downgrading shall have occurred in the rating accorded the Securities or of any of the Company's other debt by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization," as that term is defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the 1933 Act, and no such organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review, with possible negative implications, its ratings of any of the Securities or any of the Company's other debt.
     (l) . If any condition specified in this Section shall not have been fulfilled when and as required to be fulfilled, this Agreement, or, in the case of any condition to the purchase of Option Notes, at an Additional Closing Time which is after the Closing Time, the obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase the relevant Option Notes, may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time at or prior to Closing Time or such Additional Closing Time, as the case may be, and such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 and except that Sections 1, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive any such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Termination of Agreement
     SECTION 6. .
Indemnification
     (a) . The Company and each Guarantor each jointly and severally agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its affiliates, as such term is defined in Rule 501(b) under the 1933 Act (each, an "Affiliate"), its selling agents and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act as follows:
Indemnification of Underwriters
     (i) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430B Information, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any preliminary prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
     (ii) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, to the extent of the aggregate amount paid in settlement of any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or of any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission; provided that (subject to Section 6(d) below) any such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company;
     (iii) against any and all expense whatsoever, as incurred (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the Representatives), reasonably incurred in investigating,
 
preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under (i) or (ii) above;
, , that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through Merrill Lynch expressly for use in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430B Information or any preliminary prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).
provided
however
     (b) . Each Underwriter severally agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the Guarantors, its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in subsection (a) of this Section, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430B Information or any preliminary prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Underwriter through Merrill Lynch expressly for use therein.
Indemnification of Company, Guarantors, Directors and Officers
     (c) . Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure to so notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement. In the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(a) above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by Merrill Lynch, and, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(b) above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by the Company. An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the defense of any such action; provided, however, that counsel to the indemnifying party shall not (except with the consent of the indemnified party) also be counsel to the indemnified party. In no event shall the indemnifying parties be liable for fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could be sought under this Section 6 or Section 7 hereof (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Actions against Parties; Notification
     (d) . If at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, such indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of the nature contemplated by Section 6(a)(ii) effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying
Settlement without Consent if Failure to Reimburse
 
party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed such indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement.
     SECTION 7. . If the indemnification provided for in Section 6 hereof is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and of the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
Contribution
     The relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company and the Guarantors and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the cover of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Securities as set forth on the cover of the Prospectus.
     The relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
     The Company, the Guarantors and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 7. The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 7 shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
     Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
     No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
 
     For purposes of this Section 7, each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act and each Underwriter's Affiliates and selling agents shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company or any Guarantor, each officer of the Company or any Guarantor who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company or any Guarantor within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company and the Guarantors. The Underwriters' respective obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 7 are several in proportion to the principal amount of Securities set forth opposite their respective names in Schedule A hereto and not joint.
     SECTION 8. . All representations, warranties and agreements contained in this Agreement or in certificates of officers of the Company, any of its subsidiaries, or the Guarantors submitted pursuant hereto, shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or its Affiliates or selling agents, any person controlling any Underwriter, its officers or directors or any person controlling the Company, or the Guarantors, and (ii) delivery of and payment for the Securities.
Representations, Warranties and Agreements to Survive
     SECTION 9. .
Termination of Agreement
     (a) . The Representatives may terminate this Agreement, by notice to the Company, at any time at or prior to Closing Time (i) if there has been, since the time of execution of this Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement thereto) or the General Disclosure Package, any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, or (ii) if there has occurred any material adverse change in the financial markets in the United States or the international financial markets, any outbreak of hostilities or escalation thereof or other calamity or crisis or any change or development involving a prospective change in national or international political, financial or economic conditions, in each case the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representatives, impracticable or inadvisable to market the Securities or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Securities, or (iii) if trading in any securities of the Company has been suspended or materially limited by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange, or if trading generally on the American Stock Exchange or the New York Stock Exchange or in the Nasdaq Global Market has been suspended or materially limited, or minimum or maximum prices for trading have been fixed, or maximum ranges for prices have been required, by any of said exchanges or by such system or by order of the Commission, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. or any other governmental authority, or (iv) a material disruption has occurred in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States, or (v) if a banking moratorium has been declared by either Federal, New York or Pennsylvania authorities.
Termination; General
     (b) . If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this Section, such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 hereof, and provided further that Sections 1, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Liabilities
     SECTION 10. . If one or more of the Underwriters shall fail at Closing Time or an Additional Closing Time to purchase the Securities which it or they are obligated to purchase under this Agreement (the "Defaulted Securities"), the Representatives shall have the right, within 24 hours thereafter, to make arrangements for one or more of the non-defaulting Underwriters, or any other underwriters, to purchase all, but not less than all, of the Defaulted Securities in such amounts as may be agreed upon and upon the terms herein set forth; if, however, the Representatives shall not have completed such arrangements within such 24-hour period, then:
Default by One or More of the Underwriters
 
     (a) if the number of Defaulted Securities does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities to be purchased hereunder, each of the non-defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated, severally and not jointly, to purchase the full amount thereof in the proportions that their respective underwriting obligations hereunder bear to the underwriting obligations of all non-defaulting Underwriters, or
     (b) if the number of Defaulted Securities exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities to be purchased hereunder, this Agreement shall terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter.
     No action taken pursuant to this Section shall relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of its default.
     In the event of any such default which does not result in a termination of this Agreement, either the Representatives or, in the case of an Additional Closing Time that is after the Closing Time, which does not result in a termination of the obligation of the Underwriters to purchase and the Company to sell the relevant Option Notes, as the case may be, or the Company shall have the right to postpone Closing Time or the relevant Additional Closing Time, as the case may be, for a period not exceeding seven days in order to effect any required changes in the Registration Statement or Prospectus or in any other documents or arrangements. As used herein, the term "Underwriter" includes any person substituted for an Underwriter under this Section 10.
     SECTION 11. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, immediately upon commencement of discussions with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby, the Company (and each employee, representative or other agent of the Company) may disclose to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are provided to the Company relating to such tax treatment and tax structure. For purposes of the foregoing, the term "tax treatment" is the purported or claimed federal income tax treatment of the transactions contemplated hereby, and the term "tax structure" includes any fact that may be relevant to understanding the purported or claimed federal income tax treatment of the transactions contemplated hereby.
Tax Disclosure
     SECTION 12. . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Underwriters shall be directed to Merrill Lynch, at World Financial Center, North Tower, 250 Vesey Street, New York, New York 10080, Attention: Tom Davidson, with a copy to Jonathan Schaffzin, Esq., at Cahill Gordon & Reindel , 80 Pine Street, New York, New York 10005; and notices to the Company shall be directed to Mylan Laboratories, Inc, 1500 Corporate Drive, Canonsburg, Pennsylvania 15317, Attention: Edward J. Borkowski, Chief Financial Officer, with a copy to Stacy J. Kanter, Esq., at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, Four Times Square, New York, New York 10036.
Notices
llp
     SECTION 13. . The Company and the Guarantors acknowledge and agree that (a) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Securities and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, (b) in connection with the offering contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the agent or fiduciary of the Company, the Guarantors or their stockholders, creditors, employees or any other party, (c) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company or any Guarantors with respect to the offering contemplated
No Advisory or Fiduciary Relationship
 
hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company or any Guarantors on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company or any Guarantors with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement, (d) the Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and the Guarantors, and (e) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company and the Guarantors have consulted their own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
     SECTION 14. . This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the Underwriters, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Integration
     SECTION 15. . This Agreement shall each inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Underwriters, the Company and the Guarantors and their respective successors. Nothing expressed or mentioned in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, firm or corporation, other than the Underwriters, the Company and the Guarantors and their respective successors and the controlling persons and officers and directors referred to in Sections 6 and 7 and their heirs and legal representatives, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision herein contained. This Agreement and all conditions and provisions hereof are intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Underwriters, the Company and the Guarantors and their respective successors, and said controlling persons and officers and directors and their heirs and legal representatives, and for the benefit of no other person, firm or corporation. No purchaser of Securities from any Underwriter shall be deemed to be a successor by reason merely of such purchase.
Parties
     SECTION 16. . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
GOVERNING LAW
     SECTION 17. . TIME SHALL BE OF THE ESSENCE OF THIS AGREEMENT. EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE SET FORTH HEREIN, SPECIFIED TIMES OF DAY REFER TO NEW YORK CITY TIME.
TIME
     SECTION 18. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same Agreement.
Counterparts
     SECTION 19. . The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
 
     If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to the Company a counterpart hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts, will become a binding agreement among the Underwriters, the Company and the Guarantors in accordance with its terms.
 
For themselves and as Representatives of the other Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto.
 
 
 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. Milan Holding Inc. Mylan Bertek Pharmaceuticals Inc. Mylan Inc. UDL Laboratories, Inc. Mylan Technologies Inc. American Triumvirate Insurance Company Mylan International Holdings, Inc. Mylan Caribe, Inc. MLRE LLC MP Air Inc. Bertek International, Inc. Penederm Limited Euro Mylan B.V. Bertek Pharmaceuticals International Limited
 
Edward Borkowski Wendy Cameron Robert J. Coury Prasad Nimmagadda Neil Dimick Douglas J. Leech Joseph C. Maroon John P. O'Donnell Rod Piatt Milan Puskar C.B. Todd Randall L. Vanderveen Stuart A. Williams Rajiv Malik Heather Bresch Hal Korman Carolyn Myers Dan Rizzo
 
Exhibit A
 
Exhibit B
 
Exhibit C
 
Exhibit D
MERRILL LYNCH & CO. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated as Representative of the several Underwriters to be named in the within mentioned Purchase Agreements 4 World Financial Center New York, New York 10080
          Re:      
Proposed Public Offerings by Mylan Laboratories Inc.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          The undersigned, a securityholder and an executive officer and/or director of Mylan Laboratories Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (the ""), understands that Merrill Lynch & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated ("") propose to enter into (i) a purchase agreement (the "") with the Company providing for the public offering of the Company's common stock, par value $0.50 per share and (ii) a purchase agreement (the "" and, together with the Common Purchase Agreement, the "") providing for the public offering of the Company's 1.25% Senior Convertible Notes due 2012. In recognition of the benefit that such offerings will confer upon the undersigned as a securityholder and an executive officer and/or director of the Company, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the undersigned agrees with each underwriter to be named in the Purchase Agreements that, during a period of 90 days from the date of the Purchase Agreements (the "), the undersigned will not, without the prior written consent of Merrill Lynch, directly or indirectly, (i) offer, pledge, sell, contract to sell, sell any option or contract to purchase, purchase any option or contract to sell, grant any option, right or warrant for the sale of, lend or otherwise dispose of or transfer any of the Company's common stock or notes or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for the Company's common stock or notes, whether now owned or hereafter acquired by the undersigned or with respect to which the undersigned has or hereafter acquires the power of disposition, or file, or cause to be filed, any registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), with respect to any of the foregoing (collectively, the "") or (ii) enter into any swap or any other agreement or any transaction that transfers, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, the economic consequence of ownership of the Lock-Up Securities, whether any such swap or transaction is to be settled by delivery of common stock, in cash or otherwise.
Company
Merrill Lynch
Common Purchase Agreement
Convertible Purchase Agreement
Purchase Agreements
Lock-Up Period"
1933 Act
Lock-Up Securities
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if:
 
     (1) during the last 17 days of the Lock-Up Period, the Company issues an earnings release or material news or a material event relating to the Company occurs; or
     (2) prior to the expiration of the Lock-Up Period, the Company announces that it will release earnings results or becomes aware that material news or a material event will occur during the 16-day period beginning on the last day of the Lock-Up Period,
the restrictions imposed by this lock-up agreement (this "") continue to apply until the expiration of the 18-day period beginning on the issuance of the earnings release or the occurrence of the material news or material event, as applicable, unless Merrill Lynch waives, in writing, such extension.
Lock-Up Agreement
     The undersigned hereby acknowledges and agrees that written notice of any extension of the Lock-Up Period pursuant to the previous paragraph will be delivered by Merrill Lynch to the Company (in accordance with Section 13 of the Common Purchase Agreement and Section 12 of the Convertible Purchase Agreement) and that any such notice properly delivered will be deemed to have been given to, and received by, the undersigned. The undersigned further agrees that, prior to engaging in any transaction or taking any other action that is subject to the terms of this Lock-Up Agreement during the period from the date of this Lock-Up Agreement to and including the 34th day following the expiration of the initial Lock-Up Period, it will give notice thereof to the Company and will not consummate such transaction or take any such action unless it has received written confirmation from the Company that the Lock-Up Period (as may have been extended pursuant to the previous paragraph) has expired.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing and subject to the conditions below, the undersigned may transfer the Lock-Up Securities without the prior written consent of Merrill Lynch, (i) as a gift or gifts, (ii) to any trust for the direct or indirect benefit of the undersigned or the immediate family of the undersigned, or (iii) as a distribution to members, limited partners or stockholders of the undersigned or to the undersigned's "affiliates" (as such term is defined in Rule 501 under the 1933 Act) or to any investment fund or other entity controlled or managed by the undersigned; that (1) Merrill Lynch receives a signed Lock-Up Agreement for the balance of the Lock-Up Period from each donee, trustee, distributee or transferee, as the case may be; (2) any such transfer shall not involve a disposition for value; (3) such transfers are not required to be reported in any public report or filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (other than reports on Form 5), or otherwise; and (4) the undersigned does not otherwise voluntarily effect any public filing or report regarding such transfer.
bona fide
provided
     For purposes of this Lock-Up Agreement, "immediate family" shall mean any relationship by blood, marriage or adoption, not more remote than first cousin. The undersigned also agrees and consents to the entry of stop transfer instructions with the Company's transfer agent and registrar against the transfer of the Lock-Up Securities except in compliance with the foregoing restrictions.
     The undersigned hereby represents and warrants that the undersigned has full power and authority to enter into this Lock-Up Agreement. All authority herein conferred or agreed to be conferred and any obligations of the undersigned shall be binding upon the successors, assigns, heirs or personal representatives of the undersigned.
 
     The undersigned understands that, if both the Common Purchase Agreement and Convertible Purchase Agreement do not become effective, or if both the Common Purchase Agreement and Convertible Purchase Agreement (other than the provisions thereof which survive termination) shall terminate or be terminated prior to payment for and delivery of the common stock and 1.25% Senior Convertible Notes due 2012, respectively, to be sold thereunder, the undersigned shall be released from all obligations under this Lock-Up Agreement.
     The undersigned understands that Merrill Lynch is entering into the Purchase Agreements and proceeding with the offerings in reliance upon this Lock-Up Agreement.
 
     This Lock-Up Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.

 
Exhibit 1.2
Dated: March 1, 2007
 
March 1, 2007
MERRILL LYNCH & CO. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC. as Representatives of the several Underwriters c/o Merrill Lynch & Co.       Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated 4 World Financial Center New York, New York 10080
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Mylan Laboratories Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (the "Company") confirms its agreement with Merrill Lynch & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated ("Merrill Lynch"), J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. ("J.P. Morgan") and each of the other Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto (collectively, the "Underwriters," which term shall also include any underwriter substituted as hereinafter provided in Section 10 hereof), for whom Merrill Lynch and J.P. Morgan are acting as representatives (in such capacity, the "Representatives"), with respect to the (i) sale by the Company and the purchase by the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, of the numbers of shares of Common Stock, par value $0.50 per share, of the Company ("Common Stock") set forth in Schedules A and B hereto and (ii) the grant by the Company to the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, of the option described in Section 2(b) hereof to purchase all or any part of 3,412,500 additional shares of Common Stock to cover overallotments, if any. The aforesaid 22,750,000 shares of Common Stock (the "Initial Securities") to be purchased by the Underwriters and all or any part of the 3,412,500 shares of Common Stock subject to the option described in Section 2(b) hereof (the "Option Securities") are hereinafter called, collectively, the "Securities."
     Concurrently with the offering and sale of the Securities by the Company pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, the Company is offering to sell up to $600,000,000 principal amount of 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012 (including notes subject to the underwriters' over-allotment option) (the "Convertible Notes"), pursuant to the terms of an Underwriting Agreement, dated as of even date herewith, among the Company, Merrill Lynch, J.P. Morgan and the other underwriters named therein (the "Concurrent Convertible Notes Offering").
     The Company understands that the Underwriters propose to make a public offering of the Securities as soon as the Representatives deem advisable after this Agreement has been executed and delivered.
     The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") an automatic shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-140778), including the related preliminary prospectus or prospectuses, which registration statement became effective upon filing under Rule 462(e) of the rules and regulations of the Commission (the "1933 Act Regulations") under the Securities Act of
 
1933, as amended (the "1933 Act"). Such registration statement covers the registration of the Securities under the 1933 Act. Promptly after execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Company will prepare and file a prospectus in accordance with the provisions of Rule 430B ("Rule 430B") of the 1933 Act Regulations and paragraph (b) of Rule 424 ("Rule 424(b)") of the 1933 Act Regulations. Any information included in such prospectus that was omitted from such registration statement at the time it became effective but that is deemed to be part of and included in such registration statement pursuant to Rule 430B is referred to as "Rule 430B Information." Each prospectus used in connection with the offering of the Securities that omitted Rule 430B Information is herein called a "preliminary prospectus." Such registration statement, at any given time, including the amendments thereto at such time, the exhibits and any schedules thereto at such time, the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the 1933 Act at such time and the documents otherwise deemed to be a part thereof or included therein by 1933 Act Regulations, is herein called the "Registration Statement." The Registration Statement at the time it originally became effective is herein called the "Original Registration Statement." The final prospectus in the form first furnished to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Securities, including the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the 1933 Act at the time of the execution of this Agreement and any preliminary prospectuses that form a part thereof, is herein called the "Prospectus." For purposes of this Agreement, all references to the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus, the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement to any of the foregoing shall be deemed to include the copy filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system ("EDGAR").
     All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or other references of like import) shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is incorporated by reference in or otherwise deemed by 1933 Act Regulations to be a part of or included in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934 Act") which is incorporated by reference in or otherwise deemed by 1933 Act Regulations to be a part of or included in the Registration Statement, such preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be.
     SECTION 1. Representations and Warranties.
     (a) . The Company represents and warrants to each Underwriter as of the date hereof, the Applicable Time referred to in Section 1(a)(iii) hereof, as of the Closing Time referred to in Section 2(c), and agrees with each Underwriter, as follows:
Representations and Warranties
     (i) . (A) At the time of filing the Original Registration Statement, (B) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the 1933 Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the 1934 Act or form of prospectus), (C) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the 1933 Act Regulations) made any offer relating to the Securities in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the 1933 Act Regulations ("Rule 163") and (D) at the date hereof, the Company was and is a "well-known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act Regulations ("Rule 405"), including not having been and not being an "ineligible issuer" as defined in Rule 405. The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405, and the Securities, since their registration on the Registration Statement, have been and remain eligible for registration by the Company on a Rule 405
Status as a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
 
"automatic shelf registration statement" pursuant to Rule 415(a)(1)(x). The Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the 1933 Act Regulations objecting to the use of the automatic shelf registration statement form.
     (ii) At the time of filing the Original Registration Statement, at the earliest time thereafter that the Company or another offering participant made a offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2) of the 1933 Act Regulations) of the Securities and at the date hereof, the Company was not and is not an "ineligible issuer," as defined in Rule 405.
bona fide
     (iii) . The Original Registration Statement became effective upon filing under Rule 462(e) of the 1933 Act Regulations ("Rule 462(e)") on February 20, 2007, and any post-effective amendment thereto also became effective upon filing under Rule 462(e). No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the 1933 Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are contemplated by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with.
Registration Statement, Prospectus and Disclosure at Time of Sale
     Any offer that is a written communication relating to the Securities made prior to the filing of the Original Registration Statement by the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this paragraph only, of Rule 163(c) of the 1933 Act Regulations) has been filed with the Commission in accordance with the exemption provided by Rule 163 and otherwise complied with the requirements of Rule 163, including without limitation the legending requirement, to qualify such offer for the exemption from Section 5(c) of the 1933 Act provided by Rule 163.
     At the respective times the Original Registration Statement and each amendment thereto became effective, at each deemed effective date with respect to the Underwriters pursuant to Rule 430B(f)(2) of the 1933 Act Regulations and at the Closing Time, the Registration Statement complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations, and did not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
     Neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto, at the time the Prospectus or any such amendment or supplement was issued and at the Closing Time, included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
     Each preliminary prospectus (including the prospectus or prospectuses filed as part of the Original Registration Statement or any amendment thereto) complied when so filed in all material respects with the 1933 Act Regulations and each such preliminary prospectus was and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with this offering will be identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
     As of the Applicable Time the Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses (as defined below) issued at or prior to the Applicable Time, as the case may be, the Statutory Prospectus (as defined below) and the information included on Schedule C hereto, all considered together (collectively, the "General Disclosure Package"), when considered together with the General Disclosure Package,
 
did not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
     As of the time of the filing of the Final Term Sheet, the General Disclosure Package, when considered together with the Final Term Sheet, will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
     As used in this subsection and elsewhere in this Agreement:
     "Applicable Time" means 7:00 am (Eastern time) on March 2, 2007 or such other time as agreed by the Company and the Representatives.
     "Issuer Free Writing Prospectus" means any "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433 of the 1933 Act Regulations ("Rule 433"), relating to the Securities that (i) is required to be filed with the Commission by the Company, (ii) is a "road show that is a written communication" within the meaning of Rule 433(d)(8)(i), whether or not required to be filed with the Commission or (iii) is exempt from filing pursuant to Rule 433(d)(5)(i) because it contains a description of the Securities or of the offering that does not reflect the final terms, in each case in the form filed or required to be filed with the Commission or, if not required to be filed, in the form retained in the Company's records pursuant to Rule 433(g).
     "Statutory Prospectus" as of any time means the prospectus relating to the Securities that is included in the Registration Statement immediately prior to that time, including any document incorporated by reference therein and any preliminary or other prospectus deemed to be a part thereof.
     Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the public offer and sale of the Securities or until any earlier date that the issuer notified or notifies Merrill Lynch as described in Section 3(e), did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus, including any document incorporated by reference therein and any preliminary or other prospectus deemed to be a part thereof that has not been superseded or modified.
     The representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through Merrill Lynch expressly for use therein.
     (iv) . The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied, and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations or the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (the "1934 Act Regulations"), as applicable, and, when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, (a) at the time the Original Registration Statement became effective, (b) at the earlier of the time the Prospectus was first used and the date and time of the first contract of sale of Securities in this offering and (c) at the Closing Time, did not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
Incorporated Documents
 
     (v) . Deloitte & Touche LLP, the accountants who certified the financial statements and supporting schedules included in the Registration Statement have indicated in writing to the Company that they are independent public accountants as required by the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations.
Independent Accountants
     (vi) . The financial statements included in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, together with the related schedules and notes present fairly the financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries at the dates indicated and the statement of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries for the periods specified; said financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved. The supporting schedules, if any, included in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus present fairly in accordance with GAAP the information required to be stated therein. The selected financial data and the summary financial information, other than the pro forma financial data, included in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus have been derived from the historical financial statements included in the Prospectus. The pro forma financial data of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries included in the Prospectus have been prepared in accordance with the Commission's rules and guidelines with respect to pro forma financial statements and have been properly compiled on such basis; the assumptions used in the preparation thereof and the adjustments used therein are appropriate to give effect to the transactions on the dates indicated in the Prospectus.
Financial Statements
     (vii) . Since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, except as otherwise stated therein, (A) there has been no material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business (a "Material Adverse Effect"), (B) there have been no transactions entered into by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, other than those in the ordinary course of business, which are material with respect to the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, and (C) except for regular quarterly dividends on the Common Stock and as described in the Prospectus, there has been no dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company on any class of its capital stock.
No Material Adverse Change in Business
     (viii) . The Company has been duly organized and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Registration Statement and Prospectus and to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement; and the Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each other jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure so to qualify or to be in good standing would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Good Standing of the Company
     (ix) . Each subsidiary listed on Schedule D hereto (each a "Designated Subsidiary" and, collectively, the "Designated Subsidiaries") has been duly organized and is validly existing as a corporation or limited liability company in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its formation, has corporate or other power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Registration Statement and Prospectus and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation or limited liability
Good Standing of Designated Subsidiaries
 
company to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure so to qualify or to be in good standing would not result in a Material Adverse Effect; except as otherwise disclosed in the Registration Statement, Prospectus or General Disclosure Package, all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each Designated Subsidiary has been duly authorized and validly issued, is fully paid and non-assessable and is owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, claim or equity; none of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Designated Subsidiaries was issued in violation of any preemptive or similar rights of any securityholder of such Designated Subsidiary. The subsidiaries of the Company other than Designated Subsidiaries, considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, do not constitute a "significant subsidiary" as defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X.
     (x) . The authorized, issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company is as set forth in the Prospectus in the column entitled "Actual" under the caption "Capitalization" (except for subsequent issuances, if any, pursuant to this Agreement, pursuant to reservations, agreements, employee benefit plans referred to in the Prospectus or pursuant to the exercise of convertible securities or options referred to in the Prospectus). The shares of issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and non-assessable; none of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company was issued in violation of the preemptive or other similar rights of any securityholder of the Company.
Capitalization
     (xi) . This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization of Agreement
     (xii) . The Common Stock conforms to all statements relating thereto contained or incorporated by reference in the Prospectus and such description of the Common Stock conforms to the rights set forth in the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws.
Authorization and Description of Common Stock
     (xiii) . Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is (a) in violation of its charter or by-laws or (b) in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any contract, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, note, lease or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound, or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject (collectively, "Agreements and Instruments") except for defaults that would not result in a Material Adverse Effect; and the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the Securities and any other agreement or instrument entered into or issued or to be entered into or issued by the Company in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or in the Prospectus and the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein and in the Prospectus (including the issuance and sale of the Securities and the use of the proceeds from the sale of the Securities as described in the Prospectus under the caption "Use of Proceeds") and the Concurrent Convertible Notes Offering and compliance by the Company with its obligations hereunder have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other action and do not and will not, whether with or without the giving of notice or passage of time or both, conflict with or constitute a breach of, or default or Repayment Event (as defined below) under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, the Agreements and Instruments except for such conflicts, breaches or defaults or Repayment Events or liens, charges or encumbrances that, singly or in the aggregate, would not result in a Material Adverse Effect, nor will such action result in any
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts
 
violation of (x) the provisions of the charter or by-laws of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or (y) any applicable law, statute, rule, regulation, judgment, order, writ or decree of any government, government instrumentality or court, domestic or foreign, having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their assets, properties or operations, except in the case of clause (y) above, any such violations that, singly or in the aggregate, would not result in a Material Adverse Effect. As used herein, a "Repayment Event" means any event or condition which gives the holder of any note, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness (or any person acting on such holder's behalf) the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or a portion of such indebtedness by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
     (xiv) . No labor dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists or, to the knowledge of the Company, is imminent, and the Company is not aware of any existing or imminent labor disturbance by the employees of any of its or any subsidiary's principal suppliers, manufacturers, customers or contractors, which, in either case, would result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Labor Dispute
     (xv) . Except as described in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and except such matters as would not, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, rule, regulation, ordinance, code, policy or rule of common law or any judicial or administrative interpretation thereof, including any judicial or administrative order, consent, decree or judgment. Except as described in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there is no action, suit, proceeding, inquiry or investigation before or brought by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign, now pending, or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened, against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries which might result in a Material Adverse Effect, or which might materially and adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, the Concurrent Convertible Notes Offering or the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder or thereunder, as applicable. The aggregate of all pending legal or governmental proceedings to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any of their respective property or assets is the subject which are not described in the Registration Statement or Prospectus, including ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws; Absence of Proceedings
     (xvi) . There are no contracts or documents which are required to be described in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package, the Prospectus or the documents incorporated by reference therein or to be filed as exhibits thereto which have not been so described and filed as required.
Accuracy of Exhibits
     (xvii) . All United States federal income tax returns of the Company and its subsidiaries required by law to be filed have been filed or extensions thereof have been duly requested and all taxes shown by such returns or otherwise assessed, which are due and payable, have been paid, except assessments against which appeals have been or will be promptly taken and as to which adequate reserves have been provided or where the failure to pay would not result in a Material Adverse Effect. The Company and its subsidiaries have filed all other tax returns that are required to have been filed by them pursuant to applicable foreign, state, local or other law except insofar as the failure to file such returns would not result
Taxes
 
in a Material Adverse Effect, and has paid all taxes due pursuant to such returns or pursuant to any assessment received by the Company and its subsidiaries, except for such taxes, if any, as are being contested in good faith and as to which adequate reserves have been provided or where the failure to pay would not result in a Material Adverse Effect. The charges, accruals and reserves on the books of the Company in respect of any income and corporation tax liability for any years not finally determined are adequate to meet any assessments or re-assessments for additional income tax for any years not finally determined, except to the extent of any inadequacy that would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
     (xviii) . The Company and its subsidiaries maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (A) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorization, (B) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain accountability for assets, (C) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization and (D) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
Internal Controls
     (xix) . The Company and its subsidiaries carry or are entitled to the benefits of insurance, with financially sound and reputable insurers, in such amounts and covering such risks as is generally maintained by companies of established repute engaged in the same or similar business, and all such insurance is in full force and effect.
Insurance
     (xx) . The Company is, and immediately after the Closing Time will be, Solvent. As used herein, the term "Solvent" means, with respect to the Company on a particular date, that on such date (A) the fair market value of the assets of the Company is greater than the total amount of liabilities (including contingent liabilities) of the Company, (B) the present fair salable value of the assets of the Company is greater than the amount that will be required to pay the probable liabilities of the Company on its debts as they become absolute and matured, (C) the Company is able to realize upon its assets and pay its debts and other liabilities, including contingent obligations, as they mature, and (D) the Company does not have unreasonably small capital.
Solvency
     (xxi) . Neither the Company nor any affiliate of the Company has taken, nor will the Company or any affiliate take, directly or indirectly, any action which is designed to or which has constituted or which would be expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
Absence of Manipulation
     (xxii) . Except as described in the Registration Statement, General Disclosure Package and Prospectus, the Company and its subsidiaries own or possess, or can acquire on reasonable terms, adequate patents, patent rights, licenses, inventions, copyrights, know-how (including trade secrets and other unpatented and/or unpatentable proprietary or confidential information, systems or procedures), trademarks, service marks, trade names or other intellectual property (collectively, "Intellectual Property") necessary to carry on the business now operated by them, and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any notice or is otherwise aware of any infringement of or conflict with asserted rights of others with respect to any Intellectual Property or of any facts or circumstances which would render any Intellectual Property invalid or inadequate to protect the interest of the Company or any of its subsidiaries therein, and which infringement or conflict (if the subject of any unfavorable decision, ruling or finding) or invalidity or inadequacy, singly or in the aggregate, would result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Possession of Intellectual Property
     (xxiii) . Except as disclosed in the Registration Statement, General Disclosure Package and Prospectus and other than registration or qualification
Absence of Further Requirements
 
under state securities or blue sky laws in connection with the offer and sale of the Securities, no filing with, or authorization, approval, consent, license, order, registration, qualification or decree of, any court or governmental authority or agency is necessary or required for the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder, in connection with the offering, issuance or sale of the Securities hereunder.
     (xxiv) . Except as described in the Registration Statement, General Disclosure Package and Prospectus, the Company and its subsidiaries possess such permits, licenses, approvals, consents and other authorizations (collectively, "Governmental Licenses") issued by the appropriate federal, state, local or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct the business now operated by them, except where the failure so to possess would not, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect; the Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms and conditions of all such Governmental Licenses, except where the failure so to comply would not, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect; all of the Governmental Licenses are valid and in full force and effect, except where the invalidity of such Governmental Licenses or the failure of such Governmental Licenses to be in full force and effect would not, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect; and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any such Governmental Licenses which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Possession of Licenses and Permits
     (xxv) . The Company and its subsidiaries have good and marketable title to all real property owned by the Company and its subsidiaries and good title to all other properties owned by them, in each case, free and clear of all mortgages, pledges, liens, security interests, claims, restrictions or encumbrances of any kind except such as (a) are described in the Registration Statement and Prospectus or (b) do not, singly or in the aggregate, materially affect the value of such property and do not interfere with the use made and proposed to be made of such property by the Company or any of its subsidiaries; and all of the leases and subleases material to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one enterprise, and under which the Company or any of its subsidiaries holds properties described in the Registration Statement and Prospectus, are in full force and effect, except where the failure of such lease or sublease to be in full force and effect would not singly or in the aggregate result in a Material Adverse Effect, and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has any notice of any material claim of any sort that has been asserted by anyone adverse to the rights of the Company or any of its subsidiaries under any of the leases or subleases mentioned above, or affecting or questioning the rights of the Company or any subsidiary thereof to the continued possession of the leased or subleased premises under any such lease or sublease.
Title to Property
     (xxvi) . Except as would not singly or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect, no supplier of merchandise to the Company or any of its subsidiaries has ceased shipments of merchandise to the Company.
No Cessation By Supplier
     (xxvii) . No relationship, direct or indirect, exists between or among any of the Company or any affiliate of the Company, on the one hand, and any director, officer, stockholder, customer or supplier of any of them, on the other hand, which would be required by the 1933 Act or by the 1933 Act Regulations to be described in the Registration Statement or Prospectus which is not described in the Registration Statement and Prospectus.
No Undisclosed Relationships
     (xxviii) . Except as described in the Registration Statement, General Disclosure Package and Prospectus and except such matters as would not, singly or in the aggregate,
Environmental Laws
 
result in a Material Adverse Effect, (A) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, rule, regulation, ordinance, code, policy or rule of common law or any judicial or administrative interpretation thereof, including any judicial or administrative order, consent, decree or judgment, relating to pollution or protection of human health, the environment (including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata) or wildlife, including, without limitation, laws and regulations relating to the release or threatened release of chemicals, pollutants, contaminants, wastes, toxic substances, hazardous substances, petroleum or petroleum products, asbestos-containing materials or mold (collectively, "Hazardous Materials") or to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of Hazardous Materials (collectively, "Environmental Laws"), (B) the Company and its subsidiaries have all permits, authorizations and approvals required under any applicable Environmental Laws and are each in compliance with their requirements, (C) there are no pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened administrative, regulatory or judicial actions, suits, demands, demand letters, claims, liens, notices of noncompliance or violation, investigation or proceedings relating to any Environmental Law against the Company or any of its subsidiaries and (D) there are no events or circumstances that would reasonably be expected to form the basis of an order for clean-up or remediation, or an action, suit or proceeding by any private party or governmental body or agency, against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries relating to Hazardous Materials or Environmental Laws.
     (xxix) . The Company is not required, and upon the issuance and sale of the offered Securities as herein contemplated and the application of the net proceeds therefrom as described in the Prospectus will not be required, to register as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "1940 Act").
Investment Company Act
     (xxx) . The Registration Statement is not the subject of a pending proceeding or examination under Section 8(d) or 8(e) of the 1933 Act, and the Company is not the subject of a pending proceeding under Section 8A of the 1933 Act in connection with the offering of the Securities.
Pending Proceedings and Examinations
     (b) . Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters covered thereby.
Officer's Certificates
     SECTION 2. .
Sale and Delivery to Underwriters; Closing
     (a) . On the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained and subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Company agrees to sell to each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, and each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, agrees to purchase from the Company, at the price per share set forth in Schedule C, that proportion of the number of Initial Securities set forth in Schedule B opposite the name of the Company which the number of Initial Securities set forth in Schedule A opposite the name of such Underwriter, plus any additional number of Initial Securities which such Underwriter may become obligated to purchase pursuant to the provisions of Section 10 hereof, bears to the total number of Initial Securities, subject, in each case, to such adjustments among the Underwriters as the Representatives in their sole discretion shall make to eliminate any sales or purchases of fractional securities.
Initial Securities
     (b) . In addition, on the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained and subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Company hereby grants an option to the Underwriters, severally and not jointly, to purchase up to an additional 3,412,500 shares of Common
Option Securities
 
Stock, as set forth in Schedule B, at the price per share set forth in Schedule C, less an amount per share equal to any dividends or distributions declared by the Company and payable on the Initial Securities but not payable on the Option Securities. The option hereby granted will expire 30 days after the date hereof and may be exercised in whole or in part from time to time (but not more than two (2) times without the written consent of the Company) only for the purpose of covering overallotments which may be made in connection with the offering and distribution of the Initial Securities upon written notice by the Representatives to the Company setting forth the number of Option Securities as to which the several Underwriters are then exercising the option and the time and date of payment and delivery for such Option Securities. Any such time and date of delivery (an "Additional Closing Time") shall be determined by the Representatives, but shall not be later than seven full business days after the exercise of said option, nor in any event prior to the Closing Time, as hereinafter defined. If the option is exercised as to all or any portion of the Option Securities, each of the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, will purchase that proportion of the total number of Option Securities then being purchased which the number of Initial Securities set forth in Schedule A opposite the name of such Underwriter bears to the total number of Initial Securities, subject in each case to such adjustments as the Representatives in their discretion shall make to eliminate any sales or purchases of fractional shares.
     (c) . Payment of the purchase price for, and delivery of certificates for, the Securities shall be made at the offices of Cahill Gordon & Reindel , 80 Pine Street, New York, New York 10005, or at such other place as shall be agreed upon by the Representatives and the Company at 9:00 A.M. (Eastern time) on the third (fourth, if the Applicable Time occurs after 4:30 P.M. (Eastern time) on any given day) business day after the date hereof (unless postponed in accordance with the provisions of Section 10), or such other time not later than ten business days after such date as shall be agreed upon by the Representatives and the Company (such time and date of payment and delivery being herein called "Closing Time").
Payment
llp
     Payment shall be made to the Company by wire transfer of immediately available funds to bank accounts designated by the Company against delivery to the Representatives for the respective accounts of the Underwriters of certificates for the Securities to be purchased by them. It is understood that each Underwriter has authorized the Representatives, for its account, to accept delivery of, receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Initial Securities and the Option Securities, if any, which it has agreed to purchase. Merrill Lynch, individually and not as representative of the Underwriters, may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment of the purchase price for the Securities to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds have not been received by the Closing Time or the applicable Additional Closing Time, as applicable, but such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from its obligations hereunder.
     (d) . Certificates for the Securities shall be in such denominations and registered in such names as the Representatives may request in writing at least one full business day before the Closing Time. The Securities will be made available for examination and packaging by the Representatives in The City of New York not later than 10:00 A.M. (Eastern time) on the business day prior to the Closing Time.
Denominations; Registration
     . The Company covenants with each Underwriter as follows:
Covenants of the Company
     (e) . The Company, subject to Section 3(b), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B and will notify the Representatives immediately, and confirm the notice in writing, (i) when any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or new registration statement relating to the Securities shall become effective, or any supplement to the Prospectus or any amended Prospectus shall have been filed, (ii) of the receipt of any comments from the Commission, (iii) of
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests; Payment of Filing Fees
 
any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of a new registration statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or any document incorporated by reference therein or otherwise deemed to be a part thereof or for additional information, (iv) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or such new registration statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of any preliminary prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes or of any examination pursuant to Section 8(e) of the 1933 Act concerning the Registration Statement and (v) if the Company becomes the subject of a proceeding under Section 8A of the 1933 Act in connection with the offering of the Securities. The Company will effect the filings required under Rule 424(b), in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b) (without reliance on Rule 424(b)(8)), and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the form of prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424(b) was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file such prospectus. The Company will make every reasonable effort to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment. The Company shall pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Securities within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1) (i) of the 1933 Act Regulations without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r) of the 1933 Act Regulations (including, if applicable, by updating the "Calculation of Registration Fee" table in accordance with Rule 456(b)(1)(ii) either in a post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or on the cover page of a prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b)).
     (f) . The Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement or new registration statement relating to the Securities or any amendment, supplement or revision to either any preliminary prospectus (including any prospectus included in the Original Registration Statement or amendment thereto at the time it became effective) or to the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act or otherwise, and the Company will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall object. The Company has given the Representatives notice of any filings made pursuant to the 1934 Act or 1934 Act Regulations within 48 hours prior to the Applicable Time; the Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to make any such filing from the Applicable Time to the Closing Time (or if later, to the date of expiration of the option granted to the Underwriters pursuant to Section 2(b)) and will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall object. The Company will prepare a final term sheet (the "Final Term Sheet") reflecting the final terms of the Securities, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, and shall file such Final Term Sheet as an "issuer free writing prospectus" pursuant to Rule 433 prior to the close of business two business days after the date hereof; that the Company shall furnish the Representatives with copies of any such Final Term Sheet a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing and will not use or file any such document to which the Representatives or counsel to the Underwriters shall object.
Filing of Amendments and Exchange Act Documents; Preparation of Final Term Sheet
provided
     (g) . The Company has furnished or will deliver to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, signed copies of the Original Registration Statement and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated
Delivery of Registration Statements
 
by reference therein or otherwise deemed to be a part thereof) and signed copies of all consents and certificates of experts, and will also deliver to the Representatives, without charge, a conformed copy of the Original Registration Statement and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters. The copies of the Original Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
     (h) . The Company has delivered to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of each preliminary prospectus as such Underwriter reasonably requested, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the 1933 Act. The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the period when the Prospectus is required to be delivered under the 1933 Act, such number of copies of the Prospectus (as amended or supplemented) as such Underwriter may reasonably request. The Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Prospectuses
     (i) . The Company will comply with the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations, the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Securities as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Prospectus. If at any time when a prospectus is required by the 1933 Act to be delivered in connection with sales of the Securities, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Prospectus in order that the Prospectus will not include any untrue statements of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading in the light of the circumstances existing at the time it is delivered to a purchaser, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or to file a new registration statement or amend or supplement the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of the 1933 Act or the 1933 Act Regulations, the Company will promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b), such amendment, supplement or new registration statement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to comply with such requirements, the Company will use its best efforts to have such amendment or new registration statement declared effective as soon as practicable (if it is not an automatic shelf registration statement with respect to the Securities) and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters such number of copies of such amendment, supplement or new registration statement as the Underwriters may reasonably request. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement (or any other registration statement relating to the Securities) or the Statutory Prospectus or any preliminary prospectus or included or would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or would omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances prevailing at that subsequent time, not misleading, the Company will promptly notify Merrill Lynch and will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict, untrue statement or omission.
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
     (j) . The Company will use its best efforts, in cooperation with the Underwriters, to qualify the Securities for offering and sale under the applicable securities laws of such states and other jurisdictions as the Representatives may designate and to maintain such qualifications in effect for a period of not less than one year from the date hereof; provided,
Blue Sky Qualifications
 
however, that the Company shall not be obligated to file any general consent to service of process or to qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction in which it is not so qualified or so subject itself to taxation in respect of doing business in any jurisdiction in which it is not otherwise so subject. The Company will also supply the Underwriters with such information as is necessary for the determination of the legality of the Securities for investment under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Underwriters may request.
     (k) . The Company will timely file such reports pursuant to the 1934 Act as are necessary in order to make generally available to its securityholders as soon as practicable an earnings statement for the purposes of, and to provide to the Underwriters the benefits contemplated by, the last paragraph of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act.
Rule 158
     (l) . The Company will use the net proceeds received by it from the sale of the Securities in the manner specified in the Prospectus under "Use of Proceeds."
Use of Proceeds
     (m) . The Company will use its best efforts to effect the listing of the Securities on the New York Stock Exchange subject to official notice of issuance.
Listing
     (n) . The Company, during the period when the Prospectus is required to be delivered under the 1933 Act, will file all documents required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to the 1934 Act within the time periods required by the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations.
Reporting Requirements
     (o) The Company agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Representatives, and each Underwriter represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Company and the Representatives, it has not made and will not make any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 405, required to be filed with the Commission; , , that prior to the preparation of the Final Term Sheet in accordance with Section 3(b), the Underwriters are authorized to use the information with respect to the final terms of the Securities in communications conveying information relating to the offering to investors. Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Company and the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "Permitted Free Writing Prospectus." The Company represents that it has treated or agrees that it will treat each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, and has complied and will comply with the requirements of Rule 433 applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including timely filing with the Commission where required, legending and record keeping.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses.
provided
however
     (p) . During a period of 90 days from the date of this Agreement, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of Merrill Lynch, (i) directly or indirectly, offer, pledge, sell, contract to sell, sell any option or contract to purchase, purchase any option or contract to sell, grant any option, right or warrant to purchase or otherwise transfer or dispose of any share of Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for Common Stock or file any registration statement under the 1933 Act with respect to any of the foregoing or (ii) enter into any swap or any other agreement or any transaction that transfers, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, the economic consequence of ownership of the Common Stock, whether any such swap or transaction described in clause (i) or (ii) above is to be settled by delivery of Common Stock or such other securities, in cash or otherwise. The foregoing sentence shall not apply to the Securities to be sold hereunder, or to the following:
Restriction on Sale of Common Stock
 
     (i) any transaction involving, including any repurchase, redemption or conversion of, the Securities;
     (ii) the issuance by the Company to its employees or directors of options, warrants or other rights to purchase Common Stock or other equity awards in shares of Common Stock under any of the Company's equity incentive or compensation plans in effect as of the Closing Date;
     (iii) the purchase by the Company of call options, and the sale by the Company of warrants, each in connection with convertible note hedge transactions entered into in connection with the sale of the Securities, and any transactions in the Company's securities contemplated by such call options or warrants;
     (iv) any registration statement filed with the SEC (A) on Form S-8 with respect to securities to be issued pursuant to any employee benefit plan (as defined in Rule 405 under the 1933 Act) and (B) on Form S-4 with respect to any business combination or other acquisition of another business; and
     (v) the Concurrent Convertible Notes Offering.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, if:
   (1) during the last 17 days of the Lock-Up Period, the Company issues an earnings release or material news or a material event relating to the Company occurs; or
   (2) prior to the expiration of the Lock-Up Period, the Company announces that it will release earnings results or becomes aware that material news or a material event will occur during the 16-day period beginning on the last day of the Lock-Up Period,
the restrictions imposed by this clause (l) shall continue to apply until the expiration of the 18-day period beginning on the issuance of the earnings release or the occurrence of the material news or material event, as applicable, unless Merrill Lynch waives, in writing, such extension.
     SECTION 3. .
Payment of Expenses
     (a) . As between the Underwriters and the Company, the Company will pay or cause to be paid all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including (i) the preparation, printing and filing of the Registration Statement (including financial statements and exhibits) as originally filed and of each amendment thereto, (ii) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of this Agreement, any Agreement among Underwriters and such other documents as may be required in connection with the offering, purchase, sale, issuance or delivery of the Securities, (iii) the preparation, issuance and delivery of the certificates for the Securities to the Underwriters, including any stock or other transfer taxes and any stamp or other duties payable upon the sale, issuance or delivery of the Securities to the Underwriters, (iv) the fees and disbursements of the Company's counsel, accountants and other advisors, (v) the qualification of the Securities under securities laws in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(f) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection therewith and in connection with the preparation of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplement thereto, (vi) the printing and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of each preliminary prospectus, any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus and of the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto and any costs associated with electronic delivery of any of the foregoing by the Underwriters to investors, (vii) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplement thereto, (viii) the costs and expenses of the Company
Expenses
 
relating to investor presentations on any "road show" undertaken in connection with the marketing of the Securities, including without limitation, expenses associated with the production of road show slides and graphics, reasonable fees and expenses of any consultants engaged in connection with the road show presentations, travel and lodging expenses of the representatives and officers of the Company and any such consultants, and the cost of aircraft and other transportation chartered in connection with the road show, (ix) the fees and expenses of any transfer agent or registrar for the Common Stock, (x) the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing of the Securities on the New York Stock Exchange and (xi) the costs and expenses (including without limitation any damages or other amounts payable in connection with legal or contractual liability) associated with the reforming of any contracts for sale of the Securities made by the Underwriters caused by a breach of the representation contained in the sixth paragraph of Section 1(a)(iii). It is understood, however, that except as provided in this Section 4 and Sections 6, 8 and 9, the Underwriters will pay all of their own costs and expenses including the fees and expenses of Cahill Gordon & Reindel , counsel to the Underwriters.
llp
     (b) . If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives in accordance with the provisions of Section 5 or Section 9(a)(i) or Section 11 hereof, the Company shall reimburse the Underwriters for all of their out-of-pocket expenses, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters.
Termination of Agreement
     (c) . The provisions of this Section shall not affect any agreement that the Company may make for the sharing of such costs and expenses.
Allocation of Expenses
     SECTION 4. . The obligations of the several Underwriters hereunder are subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company contained in Section 1 hereof or in certificates of any officer of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company delivered pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to the following further conditions:
Conditions of Underwriters' Obligations
     (a) . The Registration Statement has become effective and at Closing Time no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the 1933 Act or proceedings therefor initiated or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters. A prospectus containing the Rule 430B Information shall have been filed with the Commission in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b) without reliance on Rule 424(b)(8) (or a post-effective amendment providing such information shall have been filed and become effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430B). The Company shall have paid the required Commission filing fees relating to the Securities within the time period required by Rule 456(1)(i) of the 1933 Act Regulations without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r) of the 1933 Act Regulations and, if applicable, shall have updated the "Calculation of Registration Fee" table in accordance with Rule 456(b)(1)(ii) either in a post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or on the cover page of a prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b). .
Effectiveness of Registration Statement; Filing of Prospectus; Payment of Filing Fee
     (b) . At Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of Closing Time, of (i) Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, special counsel for the Company, (ii) Kristin A. Kolesar Esq., Corporate Counsel of the Company, and (iii) Roger L. Foster, Esq., Corporate Counsel of the Company, in each case in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters to the effect set forth in Exhibit A, B and C heretorespectively. Either such counsel may state that, insofar as such opinion
Opinion of Counsel for Company
,
 
involves factual matters, such counsel has relied, to the extent such counsel deemed proper, upon certificates of officers of the Company and its subsidiaries and certificates of public officials.
     (c) . At Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of Closing Time, of Cahill Gordon & Reindel , counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letters for each of the other Underwriters. Such counsel may also state that, insofar as such opinion involves factual matters, they have relied, to the extent they deem proper, upon certificates of officers of the Company and its subsidiaries and certificates of public officials.
Opinion of Counsel for Underwriters
llp
     (d) . At Closing Time, there shall not have been, since the date hereof or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus or the General Disclosure Package, any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, and the Representatives shall have received a certificate of the President or a Vice President of the Company and of the chief financial or chief accounting officer of the Company, dated as of Closing Time, to the effect that (i) there has been no such material adverse change, (ii) the representations and warranties in Section 1(a) hereof are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made at and as of Closing Time, (iii) the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to Closing Time, and (iv) no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to their knowledge, contemplated by the Commission.
Officers' Certificate
     (e) . At the time of the execution of this Agreement, the Representatives shall have received letters dated such date from (i) Deloitte & Touche LLP and (ii) Deloitte, Haskins & Sells, each in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letters for each of the other Underwriters containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus.
Accountants' Comfort Letters
     (f) . At Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received letters, dated as of Closing Time, from (i) Deloitte & Touche LLP and (ii) Deloitte, Haskins & Sells, each to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letters furnished pursuant to subsection (g) of this Section, except that the specified date referred to shall be a date not more than three business days prior to Closing Time.
Bring-down Comfort Letters
     (g) . Since the date of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred a downgrading in the rating assigned to any of the Company's debt by any "nationally recognized statistical rating agency," as that term is defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the 1933 Act, and no such organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review, in the possible negative implications, its rating of the Company's debt.
Maintenance of Rating
     (h) . At Closing Time, the Securities shall have been approved for listing on the New York Stock Exchange, subject only to official notice of issuance.
Approval of Listing
     (i) . At the Closing Time, counsel for the Underwriters shall have been furnished with such documents and opinions as they may require for the purpose of
Additional Documents
 
enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations or warranties, or the fulfillment of any of the conditions, herein contained; and all proceedings taken by the Company in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated shall be satisfactory in form and substance to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters.
     (j) . At the date of this Agreement, the Representatives shall have received agreements substantially in the form of Exhibit D hereto signed by the persons listed on Schedule E.
Lock-up Agreements
     (k) . In the event that the Representatives exercise their option provided in Section 2(b) hereof to purchase all or any portion of the Option Securities, the representations and warranties of the Company contained herein and the statements in any certificates furnished by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company hereunder shall be true and correct as of each Additional Closing Time and, at the relevant Additional Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received:
Conditions to Purchase of Option Securities
     (i) . A certificate, dated such Additional Closing Time, of the President or a Vice President of the Company and of the chief financial or chief accounting officer of the Company and each Guarantor confirming that the certificate delivered at the Closing Time pursuant to Section 5(e) hereof remains true and correct as of such Additional Closing Time.
Officers' Certificate
     (ii) . The favorable opinions, dated as of the Additional Closing Time, of (i) Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, special counsel for the Company, (ii) Kristin A. Kolesar, Esq., Corporate Counsel of the Company, and (iii) Roger L. Foster, Esq., Corporate Counsel of the Company in each case, in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, dated such Additional Closing Time, relating to the Option Securities to be purchased on such Additional Closing Time and otherwise to the same effect as the opinion required by Section 5(b) hereof.
Opinion of Counsel for Company
     (iii) . The favorable opinion of Cahill Gordon & Reindel , counsel for the Underwriters, each dated such Additional Closing Time, relating to the Option Securities to be purchased on such Additional Closing Time and otherwise to the same effect as the opinion required by Section 5(d) hereof.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters
llp
     (iv) . A letter from Deloitte & Touche LLP, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives and dated such Additional Closing Time, substantially in the same form and substance as the letter furnished to the Representatives pursuant to Section 5(h) hereof, except that the "specified date" in the letter furnished pursuant to this paragraph shall be a date not more than five days prior to such Additional Closing Time.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
     (v) . Subsequent to the date of this Agreement, no downgrading shall have occurred in the rating accorded any of the Company's debt by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization," as that term is defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the 1933 Act, and no such organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review, with possible negative implications, its ratings of any debt.
No Downgrading
 
     (l) . If any condition specified in this Section shall not have been fulfilled when and as required to be fulfilled, this Agreement, or, in the case of any condition to the purchase of Option Securities, at an Additional Closing Time which is after the Closing Time, the obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase the relevant Option Securities, may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time at or prior to Closing Time or such Additional Closing Time, as the case may be, and such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 and except that Sections 1, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive any such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Termination of Agreement
     SECTION 5. .
Indemnification
     (a) . The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its affiliates, as such term is defined in Rule 501(b) under the 1933 Act (each, an "Affiliate"), its selling agents and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act as follows:
Indemnification of Underwriters by the Company
     (i) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430B Information, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any preliminary prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
     (ii) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, to the extent of the aggregate amount paid in settlement of any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or of any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission; that (subject to Section 6(e) below) any such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company;
provided
     (iii) against any and all expense whatsoever, as incurred (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the Representatives), reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under (i) or (ii) above;
, , that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through Merrill Lynch expressly for use in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430B Information or any preliminary prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).
provided
however
     (b) . Each Underwriter severally agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act, against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense
Indemnification of Company, Directors and Officers
 
described in the indemnity contained in subsection (a) and (b) of this Section, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430B Information or any preliminary prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Underwriter through Merrill Lynch expressly for use therein.
     (c) . Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure to so notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement. In the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Sections 6(a) and 6(b) above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by Merrill Lynch, and, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(c) above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by the Company. An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the defense of any such action; provided, however, that counsel to the indemnifying party shall not (except with the consent of the indemnified party) also be counsel to the indemnified party. In no event shall the indemnifying parties be liable for fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could be sought under this Section 6 or Section 7 hereof (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Actions against Parties; Notification
     (d) . If at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, such indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of the nature contemplated by Section 6(a)(ii) effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed such indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement.
Settlement without Consent if Failure to Reimburse
     SECTION 6. . If the indemnification provided for in Section 6 hereof is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
Contribution
 
     The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the cover of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Securities as set forth on the cover of the Prospectus.
     The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
     The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 7. The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 7 shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
     Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
     No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
     For purposes of this Section 7, each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act and each Underwriter's Affiliates and selling agents shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company. The Underwriters' respective obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 7 are several in proportion to the number of Initial Securities set forth opposite their respective names in Schedule A hereto and not joint.
     SECTION 7. . All representations, warranties and agreements contained in this Agreement or in certificates of officers of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, submitted pursuant hereto, shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or its Affiliates or selling agents, any person controlling any Underwriter, its officers or directors or any person controlling the Company and (ii) delivery of and payment for the Securities.
Representations, Warranties and Agreements to Survive
 
     SECTION 8. .
Termination of Agreement
     (a) . The Representatives may terminate this Agreement, by notice to the Company, at any time at or prior to Closing Time (i) if there has been, since the time of execution of this Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement thereto) or the General Disclosure Package, any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, or (ii) if there has occurred any material adverse change in the financial markets in the United States or the international financial markets, any outbreak of hostilities or escalation thereof or other calamity or crisis or any change or development involving a prospective change in national or international political, financial or economic conditions, in each case the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representatives, impracticable or inadvisable to market the Securities or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Securities, or (iii) if trading in any securities of the Company has been suspended or materially limited by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange, or if trading generally on the American Stock Exchange or the New York Stock Exchange or in the Nasdaq Global Market has been suspended or materially limited, or minimum or maximum prices for trading have been fixed, or maximum ranges for prices have been required, by any of said exchanges or by such system or by order of the Commission, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. or any other governmental authority, or (iv) a material disruption has occurred in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States or with respect to Clearstream or Eurocolar Systems in Europe, or (v) if a banking moratorium has been declared by either Federal, New York or Pennsylvania authorities.
Termination; General
     (b) . If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this Section, such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 hereof, and provided further that Sections 1, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Liabilities
     SECTION 9. . If one or more of the Underwriters shall fail at Closing Time or an Additional Closing Time to purchase the Securities which it or they are obligated to purchase under this Agreement (the "Defaulted Securities"), the Representatives shall have the right, within 24 hours thereafter, to make arrangements for one or more of the non-defaulting Underwriters, or any other underwriters, to purchase all, but not less than all, of the Defaulted Securities in such amounts as may be agreed upon and upon the terms herein set forth; if, however, the Representatives shall not have completed such arrangements within such 24-hour period, then:
Default by One or More of the Underwriters
     (a) if the number of Defaulted Securities does not exceed 10% of the number of Securities to be purchased hereunder, each of the non-defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated, severally and not jointly, to purchase the full amount thereof in the proportions that their respective underwriting obligations hereunder bear to the underwriting obligations of all non-defaulting Underwriters, or
     (b) if the number of Defaulted Securities exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities to be purchased hereunder, this Agreement shall terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter.
     No action taken pursuant to this Section shall relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of its default.
     In the event of any such default which does not result in a termination of this Agreement, either the Representatives or, in the case of an Additional Closing Time that is after the Closing Time, which does not result in a termination of the obligation of the Underwriters to purchase and the Company to sell
 
the relevant Option Securities, as the case may be, or the Company shall have the right to postpone Closing Time or the relevant Additional Closing Time, as the case may be, for a period not exceeding seven days in order to effect any required changes in the Registration Statement or Prospectus or in any other documents or arrangements. As used herein, the term "Underwriter" includes any person substituted for an Underwriter under this Section 10.
     SECTION 10. .
Default by the Company
     If the Company shall fail at Closing Time or at the Date of Delivery to sell the number of Securities that it is obligated to sell hereunder, then this Agreement shall terminate without any liability on the part of any nondefaulting party; provided, however, that the provisions of Sections 1, 4, 6, 7 and 8 shall remain in full force and effect. No action taken pursuant to this Section shall relieve the Company from liability, if any, in respect of such default.
     SECTION 11. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, immediately upon commencement of discussions with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby, the Company (and each employee, representative or other agent of the Company) may disclose to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are provided to the Company relating to such tax treatment and tax structure. For purposes of the foregoing, the term "tax treatment" is the purported or claimed federal income tax treatment of the transactions contemplated hereby, and the term "tax structure" includes any fact that may be relevant to understanding the purported or claimed federal income tax treatment of the transactions contemplated hereby.
Tax Disclosure
     SECTION 12. . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Underwriters shall be directed to Merrill Lynch, at World Financial Center, North Tower, 250 Vesey Street, New York, New York 10080, Attention: Tom Davidson, with a copy to Jonathan Schaffzin, Esq., at Cahill Gordon & Reindel , 80 Pine Street, New York, New York 10005; notices to the Company shall be directed to Mylan Laboratories, Inc, 1500 Corporate Drive, Canonsburg, Pennsylvania 15317, Attention: Edward J. Borkowski, Chief Financial Officer, with a copy to Stacy J. Kanter, Esq., at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, Four Times Square, New York, New York 10036.
Notices
llp
     SECTION 13. . The Company acknowledges and agrees that (a) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Securities and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, (b) in connection with the offering contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the agent or fiduciary of the Company or its respective stockholders, creditors, employees or any other party, (c) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement, (d) the Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of each of the Company and (e) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own respective legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
No Advisory or Fiduciary Relationship
 
     SECTION 14. . This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the Underwriters, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Integration
     SECTION 15. . This Agreement shall each inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Underwriters, the Company and its successors. Nothing expressed or mentioned in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, firm or corporation, other than the Underwriters, the Company and its successors and the controlling persons and officers and directors referred to in Sections 6 and 7 and their heirs and legal representatives, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision herein contained. This Agreement and all conditions and provisions hereof are intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Underwriters, the Company and its successors, and said controlling persons and officers and directors and their heirs and legal representatives, and for the benefit of no other person, firm or corporation. No purchaser of Securities from any Underwriter shall be deemed to be a successor by reason merely of such purchase.
Parties
     SECTION 16. . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
GOVERNING LAW
     SECTION 17. . TIME SHALL BE OF THE ESSENCE OF THIS AGREEMENT. EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE SET FORTH HEREIN, SPECIFIED TIMES OF DAY REFER TO NEW YORK CITY TIME.
TIME
     SECTION 18. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same Agreement.
Counterparts
     SECTION 19. . The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
 
     If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to the Company a counterpart hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts, will become a binding agreement among the Underwriters and the Company in accordance with its terms.
 
CONFIRMED AND ACCEPTED, as of the date first above written:
MERRILL LYNCH & CO. MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC.
By: MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED
For themselves and as Representatives of the other Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto.
 
 
 
 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. Milan Holding Inc. Mylan Bertek Pharmaceuticals Inc. Mylan Inc. UDL Laboratories, Inc. Mylan Technologies Inc. American Triumvirate Insurance Company Mylan International Holdings, Inc. Mylan Caribe, Inc. MLRE LLC MP Air Inc. Bertek International, Inc. Penederm Limited Euro Mylan B.V. Bertek Pharmaceuticals International Limited
 
Edward Borkowski Wendy Cameron Robert J. Coury Prasad Nimmagadda Neil Dimick Douglas J. Leech Joseph C. Maroon John P. O'Donnell Rod Piatt Milan Puskar C.B. Todd Randall L. Vanderveen Stuart A. Williams Rajiv Malik Heather Bresch Hal Korman Carolyn Myers Dan Rizzo
 
Exhibit A
 
Exhibit B
 
Exhibit C
 
Exhibit D
MERRILL LYNCH & CO. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated as Representative of the several Underwriters to be named in the within mentioned Purchase Agreements 4 World Financial Center New York, New York 10080
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     The undersigned, a securityholder and an executive officer and/or director of Mylan Laboratories Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (the ""), understands that Merrill Lynch & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated ("") propose to enter into (i) a purchase agreement (the "") with the Company providing for the public offering of the Company's common stock, par value $0.50 per share and (ii) a purchase agreement (the "" and, together with the Common Purchase Agreement, the "") providing for the public offering of the Company's 1.25% Senior Convertible Notes due 2012. In recognition of the benefit that such offerings will confer upon the undersigned as a securityholder and an executive officer and/or director of the Company, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the undersigned agrees with each underwriter to be named in the Purchase Agreements that, during a period of 90 days from the date of the Purchase Agreements (the "), the undersigned will not, without the prior written consent of Merrill Lynch, directly or indirectly, (i) offer, pledge, sell, contract to sell, sell any option or contract to purchase, purchase any option or contract to sell, grant any option, right or warrant for the sale of, lend or otherwise dispose of or transfer any of the Company's common stock or notes or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for the Company's common stock or notes, whether now owned or hereafter acquired by the undersigned or with respect to which the undersigned has or hereafter acquires the power of disposition, or file, or cause to be filed, any registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), with respect to any of the foregoing (collectively, the "") or (ii) enter into any swap or any other agreement or any transaction that transfers, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, the economic consequence of ownership of the Lock-Up Securities, whether any such swap or transaction is to be settled by delivery of common stock, in cash or otherwise.
Company
Merrill Lynch
Common Purchase Agreement
Convertible Purchase Agreement
Purchase Agreements
Lock-Up Period"
1933 Act
Lock-Up Securities
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if:
     (1) during the last 17 days of the Lock-Up Period, the Company issues an earnings release or material news or a material event relating to the Company occurs; or
     (2) prior to the expiration of the Lock-Up Period, the Company announces that it will release earnings results or becomes aware that material news or a material event will occur during the 16-day period beginning on the last day of the Lock-Up Period,
the restrictions imposed by this lock-up agreement (this "") continue to apply until the expiration of the 18-day period beginning on the issuance of the earnings release or the occurrence of the material news or material event, as applicable, unless Merrill Lynch waives, in writing, such extension.
Lock-Up Agreement
     The undersigned hereby acknowledges and agrees that written notice of any extension of the Lock-Up Period pursuant to the previous paragraph will be delivered by Merrill Lynch to the Company (in accordance with Section 13 of the Common Purchase Agreement and Section 12 of the Convertible Purchase Agreement) and that any such notice properly delivered will be deemed to have been given to, and received by, the undersigned. The undersigned further agrees that, prior to engaging in any transaction or taking any other action that is subject to the terms of this Lock-Up Agreement during the period from the date of this Lock-Up Agreement to and including the 34th day following the expiration of the initial Lock-Up Period, it will give notice thereof to the Company and will not consummate such transaction or take any such action unless it has received written confirmation from the Company that the Lock-Up Period (as may have been extended pursuant to the previous paragraph) has expired.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing and subject to the conditions below, the undersigned may transfer the Lock-Up Securities without the prior written consent of Merrill Lynch, (i) as a gift or gifts, (ii) to any trust for the direct or indirect benefit of the undersigned or the immediate family of the undersigned, or (iii) as a distribution to members, limited partners or stockholders of the undersigned or to the undersigned's "affiliates" (as such term is defined in Rule 501 under the 1933 Act) or to any investment fund or other entity controlled or managed by the undersigned; that (1) Merrill Lynch receives a signed Lock-Up Agreement for the balance of the Lock-Up Period from each donee, trustee, distributee or transferee, as the case may be; (2) any such transfer shall not involve a disposition for value; (3) such transfers are not required to be reported in any public report or filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (other than reports on Form 5), or otherwise; and (4) the undersigned does not otherwise voluntarily effect any public filing or report regarding such transfer.
bona fide
provided
     For purposes of this Lock-Up Agreement, "immediate family" shall mean any relationship by blood, marriage or adoption, not more remote than first cousin. The undersigned also agrees and consents to the entry of stop transfer instructions with the Company's transfer agent and registrar against the transfer of the Lock-Up Securities except in compliance with the foregoing restrictions.
     The undersigned hereby represents and warrants that the undersigned has full power and authority to enter into this Lock-Up Agreement. All authority herein conferred or agreed to be
 
conferred and any obligations of the undersigned shall be binding upon the successors, assigns, heirs or personal representatives of the undersigned.
     The undersigned understands that, if both the Common Purchase Agreement and Convertible Purchase Agreement do not become effective, or if both the Common Purchase Agreement and Convertible Purchase Agreement (other than the provisions thereof which survive termination) shall terminate or be terminated prior to payment for and delivery of the common stock and 1.25% Senior Convertible Notes due 2012, respectively, to be sold thereunder, the undersigned shall be released from all obligations under this Lock-Up Agreement.
     The undersigned understands that Merrill Lynch is entering into the Purchase Agreements and proceeding with the offerings in reliance upon this Lock-Up Agreement.
 
     This Lock-Up Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.

 
Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     THIS INDENTURE, dated as of March 7, 2007, is among Mylan Laboratories Inc., a corporation duly organized under the laws of the State of Pennsylvania (the "Company"), the Guarantors (as defined herein) and The Bank of New York, a New York banking corporation, as Trustee (the "Trustee").
     In consideration of the purchase of the Securities (as defined herein) by the Holders thereof, the parties hereto agree as follows for the benefit of one another and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Company's 1.25% Senior Convertible Notes Due 2012.
     Section 1.01. .
Definitions
     "5.750% Notes" means the 5.750% Senior Notes due 2010 of the Company, issued pursuant to the indenture dated as of July 21, 2005 among the Company, the guarantors named therein, and The Bank of New York, as trustee, and any notes, bonds, debentures or similar debt securities that the Company may issue or that any Subsidiary of the Company may issue if such debt securities are guaranteed by the Company, in each case, to the extent that any such debt securities are issued within six months of the date on which the Company shall repay such 5.750% Senior Notes due 2010, whether at maturity or upon earlier redemption or repurchase or otherwise.
     "6.375% Notes" means the 6.375% Senior Notes due 2015 of the Company, issued pursuant to the indenture dated as of July 21, 2005 among the Company, the guarantors named therein, and The Bank of New York, as trustee, and any notes, bonds, debentures or similar debt securities that the Company may issue or that any Subsidiary of the Company may issue if such debt securities are guaranteed by the Company, in each case, to the extent that any such debt securities are issued within six months of the date on which the Company shall repay such 6.375% Senior Notes due 2010, whether upon redemption, repurchase or otherwise.
     "Affiliate" means, with respect to any specified Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
     "Agent" means any Registrar, Paying Agent or Conversion Agent.
     "Applicable Procedures" means, with respect to any conversion, transfer or exchange of beneficial ownership interests in a Global Security, the rules and procedures of the Depositary, to the extent applicable to such conversion, transfer or exchange.
     "Attributable Debt" means, in the context of a Sale Leaseback Transaction, the present value, discounted at the interest rate implicit in the lease involved in such Sale Leaseback Transaction, of the lessee's obligation under the lease for rental payments during the remaining term of such lease, including any period for which such lease has been extended or may, at the option of the lessor, be extended. For purposes of this definition, any amounts the lessee must pay, whether or not designated as rent or additional rent, on account of maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments, water rates or similar charges or any amounts the lessee must pay under the lease contingent upon the amount of sales,
 
maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments, water rates or similar charges are not included in the determination of the lessee's obligations under the lease.
     "Bankruptcy Law" means Title 11 of the United States Code entitled "Bankruptcy" or any other law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, winding up, liquidation, reorganization or relief of debtors, whether in effect on the date hereof or hereafter.
     "Board of Directors" means the board of directors of the Company or of any Guarantor, as the case may be, or any duly authorized committee of such board, or any equivalent body in a limited partnership, limited liability company or other entity serving substantially the same function as a board of directors of a corporation.
     "Board Resolution" means, with respect to any Person, a duly adopted resolution (or other similar action) of the Board of Directors of such Person.
     "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday or a Sunday or any other day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or required by law to close.
     "Capital Lease Obligations" means, with respect to any Person, the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP; and, for the purposes of this Indenture, the amount of such obligations at any time shall be the capitalized amount thereof at such time determined in accordance with GAAP.
     "Capital Stock" of any Person means any and all shares, interests, participations, rights in or other equivalents (however designated) of such Person's capital stock, other equity interests whether now outstanding or issued after the Issue Date, partnership interests (whether general or limited), limited liability company interests, any other interest or participation that confers on a Person the right to receive a share of the profits and losses of, or distributions of assets of, the issuing Person, including any Preferred Stock, and any rights (other than debt securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, Capital Stock), warrants or options exchangeable for or convertible into such Capital Stock.
     "Cash" or "cash" means such coin or currency of the United States as at any time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
     "Certificated Security" means a Security that is in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A but that does not include the information or the schedule called for by footnote 1 thereof.
     "Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following events:
     (1) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of Voting Stock representing 50% or more of the total voting power of all outstanding Voting Stock of the Company, other than an acquisition by the Company, any of the Company's Subsidiaries or any of the Company's employee benefit plans; provided that this clause (1) shall not apply to a merger of the Company with or into a wholly-owned Subsidiary of a company that has a class of common stock or American Depositary Receipts in respect of common stock traded on a United States national securities exchange if immediately following the
 
transaction or series of transactions the holders of Common Stock immediately before such transaction are entitled to exercise, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the voting power of all shares of Capital Stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of such parent company; or
     (2) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, another person or the Company sells, assigns, conveys, transfers, leases or otherwise disposes of all or substantially all of its assets to any person other than any such transaction where immediately after such transaction the person or persons that "beneficially owned" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act) immediately prior to such transaction, directly or indirectly, Voting Stock representing a majority of the total voting power of all outstanding Voting Stock of the Company, "beneficially own or owns" (as so determined), directly or indirectly, Voting Stock representing a majority of the total voting power of the outstanding Voting Stock of the surviving or transferee person; or
     (3) during any consecutive two-year period, the Continuing Directors cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors; or
     (4) the adoption of a plan of liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, it will not constitute a Change of Control if 90% of the consideration for the Company's Common Stock (excluding cash payments for fractional shares and cash payments made in respect of dissenters' appraisal rights) in the transaction or transactions constituting the Change of Control consists of common stock or American Depositary Receipts and any associated rights listed on a United States national securities exchange or quoted on a national automated dealer quotation system, or which will be so traded or quoted when issued or exchanged in connection with the Change of Control, and as a result of such transaction or transactions the Securities become convertible solely into such common stock or American Depositary Receipts.
     "Closing Price" means, with respect to the Company's Common Stock or any other securities on any Trading Day, the reported last sale price per share (or if no last sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices per share or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices per share) on such date reported by the New York Stock Exchange, or, if the Company's Common Stock or such securities are not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported by the principal national securities exchange on which the Company's Common Stock or such securities are listed, or if no such prices are available, the Closing Price per share shall be the fair value of a share of Common Stock or other security as reasonably determined by the Board of Directors (which determination shall be conclusive and shall be evidenced by an Officer's Certificate delivered to the Trustee).
     "Common Stock" means the Company's common stock, par value $0.50 per share, or any successor common stock thereto.
     "Company" means the party named as such in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor replaces it pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Company.
     "Company Request" or "Company Order" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by any one of its Chairman of the Board, its Chief Executive Officer, its President, its Chief Operating Officer, its Chief Financial Officer or a Vice President (regardless of Vice Presidential
 
designation), and by any one of its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, any other Vice President (regardless of Vice Presidential designation), its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee.
     "Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Company who was (a) a member of such Board of Directors on the date of this Indenture or (b) nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the continuing directors who were members of such board at the time of such nomination or election.
     "Conversion Price" per share of Common Stock as of any day means the result obtained by dividing (i) $1,000 by (ii) the then applicable Conversion Rate.
     "Conversion Rate" means initially 44.5931 shares of Common Stock for each $1,000 principal amount of Securities, as adjusted from time to time pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture.
     "Conversion Reference Period" means:
     (1) for Securities that are converted during the period beginning on December 15, 2011 and ending on the third Business Day prior to the Final Maturity Date of the Securities, the 40 consecutive Trading Days commencing on the 42nd Trading Day preceding the Final Maturity Date; and
     (2) in all other instances, the 40 consecutive Trading Days beginning on the third Trading Day following the Conversion Date.
     "Conversion Value" means the average of the Daily Conversion Values for each of the 40 consecutive Trading Days of the Conversion Reference Period.
     "Corporate Trust Office" means the office of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be principally administered, which office at the date hereof is located at 101 Barclay Street, 8W, New York, New York 10286, Attention: Corporate Trust Division - Corporate Finance Unit, or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Company, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor Trustee (or such other address as such successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Company).
     "Currency Hedging Agreements" means one or more of the following agreements which shall be entered into by one or more financial institutions: foreign exchange contracts, currency swap agreements or other similar agreements or arrangements designed to protect against the fluctuations in currency values.
     "Custodian" means any receiver, interim receiver, receiver and manager, trustee, assignee, liquidator, custodian or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
     "Daily Conversion Value" means, with respect to any Trading Day, for each $1,000 principal amount of Securities, an amount equal to the product of (i) the applicable Conversion Rate and (ii) the Volume Weighted Average Price per share of Common Stock on such Trading Day.
     "Daily Share Amount" means, for each Trading Day during the Conversion Reference Period and each $1,000 principal amount of Securities surrendered for conversion, a number of shares of Common Stock (but in no event less than zero) determined by the following formula:
 
          where
          VWAP = the Volume Weighted Average Price per share of Common Stock for such Trading Day
          CR = the applicable Conversion Rate
     "Default" means any event that is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default.
     "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as in effect from time to time.
     "Fair Market Value" means, with respect to any asset or property, the sale value that would be obtained in an arm's-length free market transaction between an informed and willing seller under no compulsion to sell and an informed and willing buyer under no compulsion to buy. Fair Market Value shall be determined by the Board of Directors of the Company acting in good faith and shall be evidenced by a resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company.
     "Final Maturity Date" means March 15, 2012.
     "Fundamental Change" means the occurrence of a Change of Control or a Termination of Trading.
     "Fundamental Change Effective Date" means the date on which any Fundamental Change becomes effective.
     "Fundamental Change Purchase Price" of any Security, means 100% of the principal amount of the Security to be purchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the Fundamental Change Purchase Date.
     "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board or in such other statements by such other entity as have been approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, which are in effect from time to time.
     "Global Security" means a Security in global form that is in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A and that includes the legend called for in footnote 1 thereof and the related schedule and which is deposited with the Depositary or its custodian and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee.
     "Guarantee" means the guarantee by any Guarantor of the Company's obligations under this Indenture in accordance with the provisions of Article 11 hereof.
     "Guarantor" means any Subsidiary of the Company which is a guarantor of the Securities, including any Person that is required after the Issue Date on the date of determination to execute a
 
guarantee of the Securities pursuant to this Indenture, and its successors and assigns, in each case, until the Guarantee of such Person has been released in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
     "Holder" or "Holder of a Security" means the person in whose name a Security is registered on the Registrar's books.
     "Indebtedness" means, with respect to any Person on any date of determination, without duplication:
     (1) the principal of and premium (if any) in respect of indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money;
     (2) the principal of and premium (if any) in respect of indebtedness of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments;
     (3) all Capital Lease Obligations and all Attributable Debt of such Person;
     (4) all obligations of such Person issued or assumed as the deferred purchase price of property, all conditional sale obligations and all obligations under any title retention agreement, in each case to the extent the purchase price is due more than six months from the date the obligation is incurred (but excluding trade accounts payable and other accrued liabilities arising in the ordinary course);
     (5) all obligations for the reimbursement of any obligor on any letter of credit, banker's acceptance or similar credit transaction;
     (6) guarantees and other contingent obligations in respect of indebtedness referred to in clauses (1) through (5) above and clause (8) below;
     (7) all obligations of any other Person of the type referred to in clauses (1) through (6) which are secured by any lien on any property or asset of such Person, the amount of such obligation being deemed to be the lesser of the Fair Market Value of such property or asset or the amount of the obligation so secured;
     (8) all obligations under Currency Hedging Agreements and all Interest Rate Agreements of such Person; and
     (9) all obligations represented by Redeemable Capital Stock of such Person.
     "Indenture" means this instrument as originally executed (including all exhibits and schedules thereto) and as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, including the provisions of the TIA that are automatically deemed to be part of this Indenture by operation of the TIA.
     "Interest Payment Date" means March 15 and September 15 of each year, commencing September 15, 2007.
     "Interest Rate Agreements" means one or more of the following agreements which shall be entered into by one or more financial institutions: interest rate protection agreements (including, without limitation, interest rate swaps, caps, floors, collars and similar agreements) and/or other types of interest rate hedging agreements from time to time.
 
     "Issue Date" means the date of this Indenture.
     "Market Disruption Event" means the occurrence or existence for more than one half hour period in the aggregate on any scheduled Trading Day for the Common Stock of any suspension or limitation imposed on trading (by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the New York Stock Exchange or otherwise) in the Common Stock or in any options, contracts or future contracts relating to the Common Stock, and such suspension or limitation occurs or exists at any time before 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on such day.
     "Officer" means the Chairman, any Vice Chairman, the President, the Chief Executive Officer, any Vice President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company.
     "Officer's Certificate" means a certificate signed by an Officer of the Company or of any Guarantor, as the case may be, and delivered to, the Trustee; , , that for purposes of Section 5.03, "Officer's Certificate" means a certificate signed by the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal operating officer, principal accounting officer or treasurer of the Company.
provided
however
     "Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be an employee of or counsel for the Company or the Trustee and who shall be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee, and which opinion shall contain the statements required by Section 12.04.
     "Person" means any individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
     "Redeemable Capital Stock" means any Capital Stock that, either by its terms or by the terms of any security into which it is convertible or exchangeable or otherwise, is or upon the happening of an event or passage of time would be, required to be redeemed prior to the final Stated Maturity of the principal of the Securities or is redeemable at the option of the Holder thereof at any time prior to such final Stated Maturity (other than upon a change of control of or sale of assets by the Company so long as such instrument provides that such redemption will not be required unless permitted under this Indenture), or is convertible into or exchangeable for debt securities at any time prior to such final Stated Maturity at the option of the holder thereof.
     "Regular Record Date" means, with respect to each Interest Payment Date, the March 1 or September 1, as the case may be, immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date.
     "Restricted Subsidiary" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Indenture, dated as of July 21, 2005, among the Company, the Guarantors specified therein and The Bank of New York, as trustee, under which the 5.750% Notes and the 6.375% Notes were issued.
     "Sale Leaseback Transaction" means the leasing by the Company or any Subsidiary of any asset, whether owned at the Issue Date or acquired after the Issue Date (except for temporary leases for a term, including any renewal term, of up to three years and except for leases between the Company and any Subsidiary or between Subsidiaries), which property has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or such Subsidiary to any party with the intention of taking back a lease of such property.
     "SEC" means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
     "Securities" means the up to $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 1.25% Senior Convertible Notes due 2012, or any $1,000 principal amount thereof (each a "Security"), as amended or supplemented from time to time, that are issued under this Indenture.
     "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as in effect from time to time.
     "Securities Custodian" means the Trustee, as custodian with respect to the Securities in global form, or any successor thereto.
     "Significant Subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person, any Subsidiary (or group of Subsidiaries as to which a specified condition applies) that would be a "significant subsidiary" under Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X.
     "Special Record Date" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 2.16.
     "Stated Maturity" means, with respect to any installment of interest or principal on any Security, the date on which such payment of interest or principal shall become due and payable.
     "Subsidiary" means, with respect to any specified Person: (1) any corporation, association or other business entity of which more than 50% of the total voting power of shares of Capital Stock entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees of the corporation, association or other business entity is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by that Person or one or more of the other Subsidiaries of that Person (or a combination thereof); or (2) any partnership (a) the sole general partner or the managing general partner of which is such Person or a Subsidiary of such Person or (b) the only general partners of which are that Person or one or more Subsidiaries of that Person (or any combination thereof).
     "Termination of Trading" means any date on which the Company's Common Stock (or other common stock into which the Securities are then convertible) is not listed on a United States national securities exchange or approved for quotation and trading on a national automated dealer quotation system or established automated over-the-counter trading market in the United States or ceases to be so traded or quoted in contemplation of a delisting or withdrawal of approval.
     "TIA" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder as in effect on the date of this Indenture, except to the extent that the Trust Indenture Act or any amendment thereto expressly provides for application of the Trust Indenture Act as in effect on another date.
     "Trading Day" means any day on which (i) there is no Market Disruption Event and (ii) the New York Stock Exchange is open for trading, or, if the Common Stock is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, any day on which the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed is open for trading, or, if the Common Stock is not listed on a national securities exchange, any Business Day. A "Trading Day" only includes those days that have a scheduled closing time of 4:00 p.m. (New York City time) or the then standard closing time for regular trading on the relevant exchange or trading system.
     "Trading Price" of the Securities on any date of determination means, solely for the purposes of Article 4, the average of the secondary market bid quotations obtained by the Trustee for $5.0 million principal amount of Securities at approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on such determination
 
date from three nationally recognized securities dealers the Company selects, which may include the Underwriters; that if three such bids cannot reasonably be obtained by the Trustee, but two such bids are obtained, then the average of the two bids shall be used, and if only one such bid can reasonably be obtained by the Trustee, that one bid shall be used. If the Trustee cannot reasonably obtain at least one bid for $5.0 million principal amount of Securities from a nationally recognized securities dealer selected by the Company or, in the reasonable judgment of the Company, the bid quotations are not indicative of the secondary market value of the Securities, then the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Securities will be deemed to be less than 98% of the product of the Closing Price of the Company's Common Stock and the then applicable Conversion Rate per $1,000 principal amount of Securities.
provided
     "Trustee" means the party named as such in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor replaces it in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter means the successor.
     "Trust Officer" means, with respect to the Trustee, any officer assigned to the Corporate Trust Division  Corporate Finance Unit (or any successor division or unit) of the Trustee located at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture and, for the purposes of Section 8.01(c)(2) and the proviso in Section 8.02, shall also include any other officer of the Trustee to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of such officer's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.
     "Underwriters" means the underwriters named in the Purchase Agreement, dated March 1, 2007, among the Company, the Guarantors and the underwriters named therein.
     "Vice President" when used with respect to the Company or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president."
     "Volume Weighted Average Price" per share of Common Stock on any Trading Day means such price as displayed on Bloomberg (or any successor service) page MYL.N <equity> VAP in respect of the period from 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., New York City time, on such Trading Day; or, if such price is not available, the Volume Weighted Average Price means the market value per share of the Common Stock on such day as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained for this purpose by the Company.
     "Voting Stock" of any Person means Capital Stock of the class or classes pursuant to which the holders of such Capital Stock have the general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect at least a majority of the board of directors, managers or trustees of such Person (irrespective of whether or not at the time Capital Stock of any other class or classes shall have or might have voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency).
     Section 1.02. .
Other Definitions
 
 
     Section 1.03. .
Trust Indenture Act Provisions
     Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, that provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following TIA term used in this Indenture has the following meaning:
     "obligor" on the indenture securities means the Company or any other obligor on the Securities.
     All other terms used in this Indenture that are defined in the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by any SEC rule and not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them therein.
     Section 1.04. .
Rules Of Construction
     For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
     (1) a term has the meaning assigned to it;
     (2) an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with GAAP;
     (3) words in the singular include the plural, and words in the plural include the singular;
     (4) the term "merger" includes a statutory share exchange and the term "merged" has a correlative meaning;
     (5) the masculine gender includes the feminine and the neuter;
     (6) the terms "include", "including", and similar terms should be construed as if followed by the phrase "without limitation";
     (7) references to agreements and other instruments include subsequent amendments thereto; and
     (8) all "Article", "Exhibit" and "Section" references are to Articles, Exhibits and Sections, respectively, of or to this Indenture unless otherwise specified herein, and the terms "hereunder," "herein," "hereof" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.
     Section 2.01. .
Form and Dating
     The Securities and the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the respective forms set forth in Exhibit A, which Exhibit is incorporated in and made part of this Indenture. The Securities may include such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such notations,
 
legends, endorsements or changes as the Officer executing the same may approve (execution thereof to be conclusive evidence of such approval) and as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, or as may be required by the Trustee, the Depositary, or as may be required to comply with any applicable law or with any rule or regulation made pursuant thereto or with any rule or regulation of any national securities exchange or automated quotation system on which the Securities may be listed or quoted, or to conform to usage, or to indicate any special limitations or restrictions to which any particular Securities are subject. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
     (a) . All of the Securities initially being offered and sold to the Underwriters shall be issued in the form of one or more Global Securities, which shall be deposited on behalf of the purchasers of the Securities represented thereby with The Bank of New York, at its Corporate Trust Office, as custodian for the depositary, The Depository Trust Company ("DTC", and such depositary, or any successor thereto, being hereinafter referred to as the "Depositary"), and registered in the name of its nominee, Cede & Co. (or any successor thereto), for the accounts of participants in the Depositary, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided. The aggregate principal amount of the Global Securities may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Securities Custodian as hereinafter provided, subject in each case to compliance with the Applicable Procedures.
Global Securities
     (b) . The Global Security shall represent such of the outstanding Securities as shall be specified therein and each shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Securities from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Securities represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges, purchases or conversions of such Securities.
Global Securities In General
     Members of, or participants in, the Depositary ("Agent Members") shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Security held on their behalf by the Depositary or under the Global Security, and the Depositary (including, for this purpose, its nominee) may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner and Holder of such Global Security for all purposes whatsoever. None of the Trustee, the Paying Agent or the Security Registrar shall have any responsibility or obligation to any beneficial owner in a Global Security, an Agent Member or other Person with respect to the accuracy of the records of the Depositary or its nominee or of any Agent Member, with respect to any ownership interest in the Securities or with respect to the delivery to any Agent Member, beneficial owner or other Person (other than the Depositary) of any notice (including any notice of redemption) or the payment of any amount, under or with respect to such Securities. All notices and communications to be given to the Holders and all payments to be made to Holders under the Securities and this Indenture shall be given or made only to or upon the order of the registered Holders (which shall be the Depositary or its nominee in the case of the Global Security). The rights of beneficial owners in the Global Security shall be exercised only through the Depositary subject to the applicable procedures. The Trustee, the Paying Agent and the Security Registrar shall be entitled to rely and shall be fully protected in relying upon information furnished by the Depositary with respect to its members, participants and any beneficial owners. The Trustee, the Paying Agent and the Security Registrar shall be entitled to deal with the Depositary, and any nominee thereof, that is the registered Holder of any Global Security for all purposes of this Indenture relating to such Global Security (including the payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest and additional amounts, if any, and the giving of instructions or directions by or to the owner or Holder of a beneficial ownership interest in such Global Security) as the sole Holder of such Global Security and shall have no obligations to the beneficial owners thereof. None
 
of the Trustee, the Paying Agent or the Security Registrar shall have any responsibility or liability for any acts or omissions of the Depositary with respect to such Global Security, for the records of any such depositary, including records in respect of beneficial ownership interests in respect of any such Global Security, for any transactions between the Depositary and any Agent Member or between or among the Depositary, any such Agent Member and/or any Holder or owner of a beneficial interest in such Global Security, or for any transfers of beneficial interests in any such Global Security.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall (1) prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or (2) impair, as between the Depositary and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of a Holder of any Security.
     (c) . The Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with this Section 2.01(c), authenticate and deliver initially one or more Global Securities that (1) shall be registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, (2) shall be delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instructions and (3) shall bear legends substantially to the following effect:
Book Entry Provisions
     "UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE AND, UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR SECURITIES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY."
     Section 2.02. .
Execution and Authentication
     (a) The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is limited to $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount, except as provided in Sections 2.07 and 2.08.
     (b) The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by one of its Officers. The signatures of any of the Officers on the Securities may be manual or facsimile.
 
     (c) Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such offices at the date of such Securities.
     (d) No Security or Guarantee endorsed thereon shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein duly executed by the Trustee by manual signature of an authorized signatory, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and is entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
     (e) The Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery Securities for original issue in the aggregate principal amount of $600,000,000 upon receipt of a Company Order. The Company Order shall specify the amount of Securities to be authenticated, shall provide that all such Securities will be represented by a Global Security and the date on which each original issue of Securities is to be authenticated.
     (f) The Trustee shall act as the initial authenticating agent. Thereafter, the Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Securities. An authenticating agent may authenticate Securities whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent shall have the same rights as an Agent to deal with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company.
     (g) The Securities shall be issuable only in registered form without coupons and only in denominations of $1,000 principal amount and any integral multiple thereof.
     Section 2.03. .
Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent
     (a) The Company shall maintain one or more offices or agencies where Securities may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange (each, a "Registrar"), one or more offices or agencies where Securities may be presented or surrendered for payment (each, a "Paying Agent"), one or more offices or agencies where Securities may be presented for conversion (each, a "Conversion Agent") and one or more offices or agencies where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served. The Company will at all times maintain a Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Registrar and an office or agency where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York. One of the Registrars (the "Primary Registrar") shall keep a register of the Securities and of their transfer and exchange. At the option of the Company, any payment of cash may be made by check mailed to the Holders at their addresses set forth in the register of Holders.
     (b) The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Agent not a party to this Indenture, that the Agent may be an Affiliate of the Trustee. The agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such Agent. The Company shall notify the Trustee of the name and address, and any change in the name or
provided
 
address, of any Agent not a party to this Indenture. If the Company fails to maintain a Registrar, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, or agent for service of notices and demands in any place required by this Indenture, or fails to give the foregoing notice, the Trustee shall act as such. The Company or any Affiliate of the Company may act as Paying Agent (except for the purposes of Article 9).
     (c) The Company hereby initially designates The Bank of New York as Paying Agent, Registrar, Securities Custodian and Conversion Agent, and designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee as the office or agency of the Company for each of the aforesaid purposes and as the office or agency where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served.
     Section 2.04. .
Paying Agent To Hold Money In Trust
     Unless otherwise specified herein, prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on each due date of the payment of principal of, or interest on, any Securities, the Company shall deposit a sum sufficient to pay such principal or interest so becoming due. A Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of Holders of Securities or the Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of principal of, or interest on, the Securities, and shall notify the Trustee of any failure by the Company (or any other obligor on the Securities) to make any such payment. If the Company or an Affiliate of the Company acts as Paying Agent, it shall, before 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on each due date of the principal of, or interest on, any Securities, segregate the money and hold it as a separate trust fund for the benefit of Holders. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee, and the Trustee may at any time during the continuance of any Default, upon written request to a Paying Agent, require such Paying Agent to pay forthwith to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent. Upon doing so, the Paying Agent (other than the Company) shall have no further liability for the money.
     Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of or interest on any Security and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal or interest has become due and payable shall promptly be paid to the Company or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; , , that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in a newspaper published in the English language, customarily published on each Business Day and of general circulation in The City of New York, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will promptly be repaid to the Company.
provided
however
     Section 2.05. .
Conversion Agent To Hold Money In Trust
     The Company shall require each Conversion Agent (that is not the Trustee) to agree in writing that the Conversion Agent will hold in trust for the benefit of Holders or the Trustee all cash and shares of Common Stock delivered by the Company to the Conversion Agent for the delivery of amounts due upon conversion, and will notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such delivery.
 
     While any such default continues, the Trustee may require a Conversion Agent to deliver all cash and shares of Common Stock delivered by the Company to it to the Trustee. Upon payment over to the Trustee, the Conversion Agent (if other than the Company or a Subsidiary) shall have no further liability in respect of such amounts. If the Company or a Subsidiary acts as Conversion Agent, it shall segregate and hold in a separate trust fund for the benefit of the Holders all cash and shares of Common Stock held by it as Conversion Agent. Upon any bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings relating to the Company, the Trustee shall serve as Conversion Agent for the Securities.
     Section 2.06. .
Lists of Holders of Securities
     The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Holders of Securities. The Company shall furnish or cause the Registrar to furnish to the Trustee (a) semiannually, not more than 10 days after each Regular Record Date, a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders as of such Regular Record Date; and (b) at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content to that in subsection (a) hereof as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished; , , that if and so long as the Trustee shall be the Primary Registrar, no such list need be furnished.
provided
however
     Section 2.07. .
Transfer and Exchange
     (a) Subject to compliance with any applicable additional requirements contained in Section 2.13, when a Security is presented to a Registrar with a request to register a transfer thereof or to exchange such Security for an equal principal amount of Securities of other authorized denominations, the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested if its requirements for such transactions are met; , , that every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be duly endorsed or accompanied by an assignment form and, if applicable, a transfer certificate each substantially in the form included in Exhibit A, and completed in a manner satisfactory to the Registrar and duly executed by the Holder thereof or its attorney duly authorized in writing. To permit registration of transfers and exchanges, upon surrender of any Security for registration of transfer or exchange at an office or agency maintained pursuant to Section 2.03, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate Securities of a like aggregate principal amount at the Registrar's request. Any exchange or transfer shall be without charge, except that the Company or the Registrar may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto; provided that this sentence shall not apply to any exchange pursuant to Section 2.11, 2.13(a), 4.02(d) or 10.06.
provided
however
     (b) Neither the Company, any Registrar nor the Trustee shall be required to register the transfer of or exchange any Securities or portions thereof in respect of which a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been delivered and not withdrawn by the Holder thereof (except, in the case of the purchase of a Security in part, the portion thereof not to be purchased).
     (c) All Securities issued upon any transfer or exchange of Securities shall be valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
 
     (d) Any Registrar appointed pursuant to Section 2.03 shall provide to the Trustee such information as the Trustee may reasonably require in connection with the delivery by such Registrar of Securities upon transfer or exchange of Securities.
     (e) Each Holder of a Security agrees to indemnify the Company and the Trustee against any liability that may result from the registration of transfer, exchange or assignment of such Holder's Security in violation of any provision of this Indenture and/or applicable United States federal or state securities law.
     (f) The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Security (including any transfers between or among Agent Members or other beneficial owners of interests in any Global Security) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by the terms of, this Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
     Section 2.08. .
Replacement Securities
     (a) If (1) any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, or (2) the Company and the Trustee receive evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security, and there is delivered to the Company and the Trustee, such security or indemnity, in each case, as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a protected purchaser, the Company shall execute and upon a Company Request the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for any such mutilated Security or in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a replacement Security of like tenor and principal amount, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding and each Guarantor shall execute a replacement Guarantee.
     (b) If any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, or is about to be purchased by the Company pursuant to Article 3, or converted pursuant to Article 4, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay, purchase or convert such Security, as the case may be.
     (c) Upon the issuance of any new Securities under this Section 2.08, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of counsel and the Trustee) in connection therewith.
     (d) Every new Security and Guarantee issued pursuant to this Section 2.08 in lieu of any mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company and each Guarantor, whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities duly issued hereunder.
 
     (e) The provisions of this Section 2.08 are (to the extent lawful) exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
     Section 2.09. .
Outstanding Securities
     (a) Securities outstanding ("Outstanding") at any time are all Securities authenticated by the Trustee, except for those canceled by it, those purchased pursuant to Article 3, those converted pursuant to Article 4, those delivered to the Trustee for cancellation or surrendered for transfer or exchange and those described in this Section 2.09 as not Outstanding.
     (b) If a Security is replaced pursuant to Section 2.08, such replaced Security ceases to be Outstanding unless the Company receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Security is held by a protected purchaser.
     (c) If a Paying Agent holds in respect of the Outstanding Securities on a Fundamental Change Purchase Date or the Final Maturity Date money sufficient to pay the principal of and accrued interest on Securities (or portions thereof) payable on that date, then on and after such Fundamental Change Purchase Date or Final Maturity Date, as the case may be, such Securities (or portions thereof, as the case may be) shall cease to be Outstanding and interest on them shall cease to accrue.
     (d) Subject to the restrictions contained in Section 2.10, a Security does not cease to be Outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate of the Company holds the Security.
     Section 2.10. .
Treasury Securities
     In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of Securities have concurred in any request, demand, authorization, notice, direction, waiver or consent, Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor on the Securities or by any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded, except that, for purposes of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such request, demand, authorization, notice, direction, waiver or consent, only Securities which a Trust Officer of the Trustee actually knows are so owned shall be so disregarded.
     Section 2.11. .
Temporary Securities
     Until definitive Securities are ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and execute, and, upon receipt of a Company Order, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities. Temporary Securities shall be substantially in the form of definitive Securities but may have variations that the Company with the consent of the Trustee considers appropriate for temporary Securities. Without unreasonable delay, the Company shall prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver definitive Securities in exchange for temporary Securities representing an equal principal amount of Securities. The temporary Securities will be exchanged for definitive Securities in accordance with Sections 2.07 and 2.13 hereof. Until so exchanged, temporary Securities shall have the same rights under this Indenture as the definitive Securities.
 
     Section 2.12. .
Cancellation
     The Company at any time may deliver Securities to the Trustee for cancellation. The Registrar, the Paying Agent and the Conversion Agent shall forward to the Trustee any Securities surrendered to them for transfer, exchange, purchase, payment or conversion. The Trustee and no one else shall cancel, in accordance with its standard procedures, all Securities surrendered for transfer, exchange, purchase, payment, conversion or cancellation and shall dispose of the cancelled Securities in accordance with its customary procedures or deliver the canceled Securities to the Company upon request. All Securities which are purchased or otherwise acquired by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries prior to the Final Maturity Date pursuant to Article 3 shall be delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, and the Company may not hold or resell such Securities or issue any new Securities to replace any such Securities or any Securities that any Holder has converted pursuant to Article 4. The Trustee shall maintain a record of all canceled Securities. The Trustee shall provide the Company a list of all Securities that have been canceled from time to time as requested by the Company in writing.
     Section 2.13. .
Legend; Additional Transfer and Exchange Requirements
     (a) A Global Security may not be transferred, in whole or in part, to any Person other than the Depositary or a nominee or any successor thereof, and no such transfer to any such other Person may be registered; that the foregoing shall not prohibit any transfer of a Security that is issued in exchange for a Global Security but is not itself a Global Security. No transfer of a Security to any Person shall be effective under this Indenture or the Securities unless and until such Security has been registered in the name of such Person. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture or the Securities, transfers of a Global Security, in whole or in part, shall be made only in accordance with this Section 2.13.
provided
     (b) The provisions below shall apply only to Global Securities:
     (1) Each Global Security authenticated under this Indenture shall be registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee thereof and delivered to such Depositary or a nominee thereof or custodian therefor, and each such Global Security shall constitute a single Security for purposes of this Indenture.
     (2) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture or the Securities, a Global Security shall not be exchanged in whole or in part for a Security registered, and no transfer of a Global Security in whole or in part shall be registered in the name of any Person other than the Depositary or one or more nominees thereof; that a Global Security may be exchanged for Securities registered in the names of any person designated by the Depositary in the event that (A) the Depositary has notified the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security or such Depositary has ceased to be a "clearing agency" registered under the Exchange Act, and in either case a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after receiving such notice or becoming aware that the Depositary has ceased to be a "clearing agency," (B) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the Securities or (C) the Company executes and delivers to the Trustee and the Primary Registrar an Officer's Certificate stating that such Global Security shall be so exchangeable. Any Global Security exchanged pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be so exchanged as directed by the Depositary. Any Security issued in exchange for a
provided
 
Global Security or any portion thereof shall be a Global Security; , , that any such Security so issued that is registered in the name of a Person other than the Depositary or a nominee thereof shall not be a Global Security.
provided
however
     (3) Securities issued in exchange for a Global Security or any portion thereof that are not issued as a Global Security shall be issued in definitive, fully registered form, without interest coupons, shall have a principal amount equal to that of such Global Security or portion thereof to be so exchanged, shall be registered in such names and be in such authorized denominations as the Depositary shall designate and shall bear the applicable legends provided for herein. Any Global Security to be exchanged in whole shall be surrendered by the Depositary to the Trustee or the Registrar. With regard to any Global Security to be exchanged in part, either such Global Security shall be so surrendered for exchange or, if the Trustee is acting as custodian for the Depositary or its nominee with respect to such Global Security, the principal amount thereof shall be reduced, by an amount equal to the portion thereof to be so exchanged, by means of an appropriate adjustment made on the records of the Trustee. Upon any such surrender or adjustment, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver the Security issuable on such exchange to or upon the order of the Depositary or an authorized representative thereof.
     (4) Subject to clause (6) of this Section 2.13(b), the registered Holder may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members and Persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action which a Holder is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Securities.
     (5) In the event of the occurrence of any of the events specified in clause (2) of this Section 2.13(b), the Company will promptly make available to the Trustee a reasonable supply of Certificated Securities in definitive, fully registered form, without interest coupons.
     (6) Neither Agent Members nor any other Persons on whose behalf Agent Members may act shall have any rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Security registered in the name of the Depositary or any nominee thereof, or under any such Global Security, and the Depositary or such nominee, as the case may be, may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner and Holder of such Global Security for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or such nominee, as the case may be, or impair, as between the Depositary, its Agent Members and any other Person on whose behalf an Agent Member may act, the operation of customary practices of such Persons governing the exercise of the rights of a Holder of any Security.
     (7) At such time as all interests in a Global Security have been converted, cancelled or exchanged for Securities in certificated form, such Global Security shall, upon receipt thereof, be cancelled by the Trustee in accordance with standing procedures and instructions existing between the Depositary and the Securities Custodian, subject to
 
Section 2.12 of this Indenture. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any interest in a Global Security is converted, canceled or exchanged for Securities in certificated form, the principal amount of such Global Security shall, in accordance with the standing procedures and instructions existing between the Depositary and the Securities Custodian, be appropriately reduced, and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Security, by the Trustee or the Securities Custodian, at the direction of the Trustee, to reflect such reduction.
     Section 2.14. .
CUSIP Numbers
     The Company in issuing the Securities may use one or more "CUSIP," "ISIN" or other similar numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP," "ISIN" or other similar numbers in a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice as a convenience to Holders; that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any Fundamental Change Purchase Notice and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such purchase shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the "CUSIP," "ISIN" or other similar numbers.
provided
     Section 2.15. .
Calculations
     Except as otherwise specifically stated herein or in the Securities, all calculations to be made in respect of the Securities shall be the obligation of the Company. All calculations made by the Company or its agent as contemplated pursuant to the terms hereof and of the Securities shall be made in good faith and be final and binding on the Holders absent manifest error. The Company shall provide a schedule of calculations to the Trustee upon the Trustee's request, and the Trustee shall be entitled to conclusively rely upon the accuracy of the calculations by the Company without independent verification. The Trustee shall forward calculations made by the Company to any Holder of Securities upon request.
     Section 2.16. .
Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved
     Interest on any Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on the Stated Maturity of such interest shall be paid to the Person in whose name the Security is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest payment.
     Any interest on any Security which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on the Stated Maturity of such interest, and interest on such defaulted interest at the then applicable interest rate borne by the Securities, to the extent lawful (such defaulted interest and interest thereon herein collectively called "Defaulted Interest"), shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the Regular Record Date; and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in Subsection (a) or (b) below:
     (a) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Securities are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security and the date (not less than 20 days after such notice) of the proposed payment (the "Special Payment Date"), and on the date of payment the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such
 
deposit prior to the Special Payment Date, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this subsection provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the Special Payment Date and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of such Special Record Date. Unless the Company issues a press release to the same effect, in the name and at the expense of the Company, the Trustee shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder at its address as it appears in the Security Register, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date or notify in such other manner as the Trustee determines, including in accordance with any Applicable Procedures. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date and Special Payment Date therefor having been so mailed or otherwise conveyed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Securities are registered on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following paragraph (b).
     (b) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any national securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by this Indenture not inconsistent with the requirements of such exchange, if, after written notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this subsection, such payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
     Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.16, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
     Section 2.17. .
Computation of Interest
     Interest on the Securities shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months.
     Section 3.01. .
Purchase of Securities by the Company for Cash at Option of the Holder Upon a Fundamental Change
     (a) If a Fundamental Change occurs prior to the Final Maturity Date, each Holder of a Security shall have the right, at the option of the Holder, to require the Company to purchase for cash in whole or in part (in principal amounts of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof) the Securities of such Holder at the Fundamental Change Purchase Price on the date specified by the Company that is not less than 30 days and not more than 45 days after the Fundamental Change Effective Date (the "Fundamental Change Purchase Date").
 
     (b) Not less than 10 Business Days prior to the date that is anticipated to be the Fundamental Change Effective Date, the Company shall mail a written notice of the Fundamental Change and of the resulting purchase right to the Trustee, Paying Agent and to each Holder of record of Securities (an "Issuer Fundamental Change Notice"). The Issuer Fundamental Change Notice shall include the form of a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice (defined below) to be completed by the Holder and shall state:
     (1) the events causing such Fundamental Change;
     (2) the date (or expected date) of such Fundamental Change;
     (3) the last date by which the Fundamental Change Purchase Notice must be delivered to elect the purchase option pursuant to this Section 3.01;
     (4) the Fundamental Change Purchase Date;
     (5) the Fundamental Change Purchase Price;
     (6) the Holder's right to require the Company to purchase the Securities;
     (7) the name and address of each Paying Agent and Conversion Agent;
     (8) the then effective Conversion Rate and any adjustments to the Conversion Rate resulting from such Fundamental Change;
     (9) the procedures that the Holder must follow to exercise rights under Article 4 of this Indenture and that the Securities as to which a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been given may be converted into Common Stock pursuant to Article 4 of this Indenture only to the extent that the Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been withdrawn in accordance with the terms of this Indenture;
     (10) the procedures that the Holder must follow to exercise rights under this Section 3.01;
     (11) the procedures for withdrawing a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice;
     (12) that, unless the Company fails to pay such Fundamental Change Purchase Price, Securities covered by any Fundamental Change Purchase Notice will cease to be outstanding and interest will cease to accrue on and after the Fundamental Change Purchase Date; and
     (13) the CUSIP, ISIN or other similar number of the Securities.
     At the Company's written request, the Trustee shall give such Issuer Fundamental Change Notice in the Company's name and at the Company's expense; that, in all cases, the text of such Issuer Fundamental Change Notice shall be prepared by the Company. In connection with the delivery of the Issuer Fundamental Change Notice to the Holders, the Company shall publish a notice containing substantially the same information that is required in the Issuer Fundamental Change Notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of New York or publish information on a website of the
provided
 
Company or through such other public medium the Company may use at that time. If any of the Securities is in the form of a Global Security, then the Company shall modify such notice to the extent necessary to accord with the Applicable Procedures relating to the purchase of Global Securities.
     (c) A Holder may exercise its rights specified in Section 3.01(a) upon delivery of a written notice (which shall be in substantially the form set forth in the form of Security attached as Exhibit A under the heading "Fundamental Change Purchase Notice" and which may be delivered by letter, overnight courier, hand delivery, facsimile transmission or in any other written form and, in the case of Global Securities, may be delivered electronically or by other means in accordance with the Depositary's Applicable Procedures) of the exercise of such rights (a "Fundamental Change Purchase Notice") to the Paying Agent at any time prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, subject to extension to comply with applicable law.
     (1) The Fundamental Change Purchase Notice shall state: (A) if the Securities are in certificated form, the certificate numbers of the Securities which the Holder will deliver to be purchased (or, if the Security is held in global form, any other items required to comply with the Applicable Procedures), (B) the portion of the principal amount of the Securities which the Holder will deliver to be purchased, which portion must be a principal amount of $1,000 or any integral multiple thereof and (C) that such Security shall be purchased as of the Fundamental Change Purchase Date pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in the Securities and in this Indenture.
     (2) The delivery of a Security for which a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been timely delivered to any Paying Agent and not validly withdrawn prior to, on or after the Fundamental Change Purchase Date (together with all necessary endorsements) at the office of such Paying Agent shall be a condition to the receipt by the Holder of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price therefor.
     (3) The Company shall only be obliged to purchase, pursuant to this Section 3.01, a portion of a Security if the principal amount of such portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to the purchase of all of a Security also apply to the purchase of such portion of such Security.
     (4) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Holder delivering to a Paying Agent the Fundamental Change Purchase Notice contemplated by this Section 3.01(c) shall have the right to withdraw such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice in whole or in a portion thereof that is a principal amount of $1,000 or in an integral multiple thereof at any time prior to the close of business on the Business Day prior to the Fundamental Change Purchase Date by delivery of a written notice of withdrawal to the Paying Agent in accordance with Section 3.02(b).
     (5) A Paying Agent shall promptly notify the Company of the receipt by it of any Fundamental Change Purchase Notice or written withdrawal thereof.
     (6) Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, in the case of Global Securities, any Fundamental Change Purchase Notice may be delivered or withdrawn and
 
such Securities may be surrendered or delivered for purchase in accordance with the Applicable Procedures as in effect from time to time.
     Section 3.02. .
Effect of Fundamental Change Purchase Notice
     (a) Upon receipt by any Paying Agent of a properly completed Fundamental Change Purchase Notice from a Holder, the Holder of the Security in respect of which such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice was given shall (unless such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice is withdrawn as specified in Section 3.02(b)) thereafter be entitled to receive the Fundamental Change Purchase Price with respect to such Security. Such Fundamental Change Purchase Price shall be paid to such Holder promptly following the later of (1) the Fundamental Change Purchase Date (that the conditions in Section 3.01 have been satisfied) and (2) the time of delivery of such Security to a Paying Agent by the Holder thereof in the manner required by Section 3.01(c). Securities in respect of which a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been given by the Holder thereof may not be converted in accordance with the provisions of Article 4 on or after the date of the delivery of such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice unless such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has first been validly withdrawn in accordance with Section 3.02(b) with respect to the Securities to be converted.
provided
     (b) A Fundamental Change Purchase Notice may be withdrawn by means of a written notice (which may be delivered by mail, overnight courier, hand delivery, facsimile transmission or in any other written form and, in the case of Global Securities, may be delivered electronically or by other means in accordance with the Applicable Procedures) of withdrawal delivered by the Holder to a Paying Agent at any time prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately prior to the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, specifying (1) the principal amount of the Security or portion thereof (which must be a principal amount of $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) with respect to which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted, (2) if the Securities are in certificated form, the certificate numbers of the Security being withdrawn in whole or in part and (3) the portion of the principal amount of the Security that will remain subject to the Fundamental Change Purchase Notice, which portion must be a principal amount of $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof.
     Section 3.03. .
Deposit of Fundamental Change Purchase Price
     (a) On or before 10:00 a.m. New York City time on the applicable Fundamental Change Purchase Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or if the Company or an Affiliate of the Company is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 2.04) an amount of money (in immediately available funds if deposited on or after such Fundamental Change Purchase Date), sufficient to pay the aggregate Fundamental Change Purchase Price of all the Securities or portions thereof that are to be purchased as of the Fundamental Change Purchase Date.
     (b) If a Paying Agent or the Trustee holds on the Fundamental Change Purchase Date in accordance with the terms hereof an amount of money sufficient to pay the Fundamental Change Purchase Price of any Security (or portion thereof) for which a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been tendered and not withdrawn in accordance with this Indenture then, immediately following the applicable Fundamental Change Purchase Date, whether or not the
 
Security is delivered to the Paying Agent, such Security shall cease to be outstanding, interest, shall cease to accrue, and the rights of the Holder in respect of the Security shall terminate (other than the right to receive the Fundamental Change Purchase Price upon delivery of the Security as aforesaid).
     (c) The Paying Agent will promptly return to the respective Holders thereof any Securities with respect to which a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been withdrawn in compliance with this Indenture.
     (d) If a Fundamental Change Purchase Date falls after a Regular Record Date and on or before the related Interest Payment Date, then interest on the Securities payable on such Interest Payment Date will be payable to the Holders in whose names the Securities are registered at the close of business on such Regular Record Date.
     Section 3.04. .
Repayment to the Company
     To the extent that the aggregate amount of cash deposited by the Company pursuant to Section 3.03 exceeds the aggregate Fundamental Change Purchase Price of the Securities or portions thereof that the Company is obligated to purchase, then promptly after the Fundamental Change Purchase Date the Trustee or a Paying Agent, as the case may be, shall return any such excess cash to the Company, or if such money is then held by the Company in trust, it shall be discharged from the trust.
     Section 3.05. .
Securities Purchased In Part
     Any Security that is to be purchased only in part shall be surrendered at the office of a Paying Agent, and promptly after the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, as the case may be, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security, without service charge, a new Security or Securities, of such authorized denomination or denominations as may be requested by such Holder (which must be equal to $1,000 principal amount or any integral multiple thereof), in aggregate principal amount equal to, and in exchange for, the portion of the principal amount of the Security so surrendered that is not purchased.
     Section 3.06. .
Compliance With Securities Laws Upon Purchase of Securities
     In connection with any offer to purchase Securities under Section 3.01, the Company shall (a) comply with the provisions of the tender offer rules under the Exchange Act which may then be applicable, (b) file the related Schedule TO (or any successor or similar schedule, form or report) if required under the Exchange Act, and (c) otherwise comply with all federal and state securities laws in connection with such offer to purchase or purchase of Securities, all so as to permit the rights of the Holders and obligations of the Company under Sections 3.01 through 3.04 to be exercised in the time and in the manner specified therein. To the extent that compliance with any such laws, rules and regulations would result in a conflict with any of the terms hereof, this Indenture is hereby modified to the extent required for the Company to comply with such laws, rules and regulations.
     Section 3.07. .
Purchase of Securities In Open Market
     The Company may purchase Securities in the open market or by tender at any price or pursuant to private agreements. The Company shall surrender any Security purchased by the Company pursuant to this Article 3 to the Trustee for cancellation. Any Securities surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation may not be reissued or resold by the Company and will be canceled promptly in accordance with Section 2.12.
 
     Section 4.01. .
Conversion Privilege and Conversion Rate
     (a) Any Security or portion thereof that is an integral multiple of $1,000 principal amount may be converted by the Holder thereof in accordance with the provisions of this Article 4. Upon conversion, Holders shall be entitled to receive the amount of cash and, if applicable, shares of Common Stock determined in the manner provided in Section 4.12. Securities may be converted prior to the close of business on the third Business Day immediately preceding the Final Maturity Date at the Conversion Rate in effect at the time of such conversion only under the following circumstances:
     (1) on any Business Day in any calendar quarter commencing at any time after June 30, 2007, and only during such calendar quarter, if, as of the last day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter, the Closing Price of the Common Stock for at least 20 Trading Days in the period of 30 consecutive Trading Days ending on the last Trading Day of such preceding calendar quarter was more than 130% of the applicable Conversion Price on the last day of such preceding calendar quarter;
     (2) on any Business Day during the five Business Day period after any five consecutive Trading Day period in which the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Securities, as determined by the Trustee following a request by a Holder in accordance with the procedures described in Section 4.01(e)(ii), for each Trading Day of that period was less than 98% of the product of the Closing Price of the Common Stock on such day and the then applicable Conversion Rate per $1,000 principal amount of Securities.
     (3) if the Company distributes to all holders of Common Stock any rights entitling them to purchase, for a period expiring within 45 days of such distribution, Common Stock, or securities convertible into Common Stock, at less than, or having a conversion price per share less than, the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the declaration date for such distribution;
     (4) if the Company distributes to all holders of Common Stock assets, cash, debt securities or rights to purchase the Company's securities, which distribution has a per share value as determined by the Board of Directors exceeding 15% of the Closing Price per share of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the declaration date for such distribution;
     (5) if the Company is a party to any transaction or event (including, but not limited to, any consolidation, merger or binding share exchange, other than changes resulting from a subdivision or combination) that is not otherwise a Fundamental Change pursuant to which all or substantially all shares of the Common Stock would be converted into cash, securities or other property (provided that the Securities shall not become
 
convertible by reason of a merger, consolidation or other transaction effected by the Company with one of its direct or indirect Subsidiaries for the purpose of changing the Company's state of incorporation or organization to any other state within the United States or the District of Columbia);
     (6) if a Fundamental Change occurs; or
     (7) at any time during the period beginning on December 15, 2011 and ending at the close of business on the third Business Day immediately preceding the Final Maturity Date.
     (b) The Trustee shall have no obligation to determine the Trading Price of the Securities and whether the Securities are convertible pursuant to clause (2) of Section 4.01(a) unless the Company has requested such determination and the Company shall have no obligation to make such request unless a Holder of the Securities provides the Company with reasonable evidence that the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Securities would be less than 98% of the product of the Closing Price of the Common Stock and the then applicable Conversion Rate per $1,000 principal amount of Securities. At such time, the Company shall instruct the Trustee to determine the Trading Price of the Securities beginning on the next Trading Day and on each successive Trading Day until the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of the Securities is greater than 98% of the product of the Closing Price of the Common Stock and the then applicable Conversion Rate per $1,000 principal amount of the Securities.
     (c) In the case of a distribution contemplated by clause (3) or (4) of Section 4.01(a), the Company shall notify Holders and the Trustee at least 35 days prior to the ex-dividend date (defined below) for such distribution (the "Distribution Notice"). Once the Company has given the Distribution Notice, Holders may surrender their Securities for conversion at any time until the earlier of the close of business on the Business Day prior to the ex-dividend date or the Company's announcement that such distribution will not take place. In the event of a distribution contemplated by clause (3) or (4) of Section 4.01(a), Holders may not convert the Securities if the Holders will otherwise participate in such distribution on an as converted basis (assuming for this purpose that the Securities were convertible solely into a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the then applicable Conversion Rate). The "ex-dividend date" is the first date upon which a sale of the Common Stock does not automatically transfer the right to receive the relevant distribution from the seller of the Common Stock to its buyer. The Company will provide written notice to the Conversion Agent as soon as reasonably practicable of any anticipated or actual event or transaction that will cause or causes the Securities to become convertible pursuant to clauses (3) or (4) of Section 4.01(a).
     (d) In the case of a transaction contemplated by clause (5) of Section 4.01(a), the Company will notify Holders and the Trustee as promptly as practicable following the date the Company publicly announces such transaction (but in no event less than 15 days prior to the anticipated effective date of such transaction). Holders may surrender Securities for conversion at any time from and after the date which is 15 days prior to the anticipated effective date of such transaction until the earlier of the date which is 15 days after the actual effective date of such transaction or the date of the Company's announcement that such transaction will not take place.
 
     (e) In the case of a Fundamental Change, the Company shall provide notice thereof (a "Fundamental Change Conversion Notice") to the Holders of Securities and the Trustee at least 15 days prior to date that is anticipated to be the Fundamental Change Effective Date. Holders may surrender Securities for conversion at any time beginning 15 days before the date that is anticipated to be the Fundamental Change Effective Date until the Trading Day prior to the Fundamental Change Purchase Date.
     (f) The conversion rights pursuant to this Article 4 shall commence on the Issue Date of the Securities and expire at the close of business on the third Business Day immediately preceding the Final Maturity Date, but shall be exercisable only during the time periods specified with respect to each circumstance pursuant to which the Securities become convertible, subject, in the case of conversion of any Global Security, to any Applicable Procedures.
     (g) Securities in respect of which a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been delivered may not be surrendered for conversion pursuant to this Article 4 prior to a valid withdrawal of such Fundamental Change Notice, in accordance with the provisions of Article 3.
     (h) Provisions of this Indenture that apply to conversion of all of a Security also apply to conversion of a portion of a Security.
     (i) The Conversion Rate shall be adjusted in certain instances as provided in Section 4.01(j) and Section 4.06.
     (j) If a Fundamental Change occurs prior to the Final Maturity Date as a result of a transaction described in clauses (1), (2) or (4) of the definition of the term "Change of Control" and a Holder elects to convert its Securities "in connection with" such transaction, the Company shall pay a "Make Whole Premium" by increasing the applicable Conversion Rate for the Securities surrendered for conversion by a number of additional shares of Common Stock as provided in this Section 4.01(i) (the "Additional Shares"). A conversion of Securities shall be deemed for these purposes to be "in connection with" such a transaction if the notice of conversion is received by the Conversion Agent from and including the Fundamental Change Effective Date and prior to the close of business on the Business Day prior to the Fundamental Change Purchase Date.
     The number of Additional Shares per $1,000 principal amount of Securities constituting the Make Whole Premium shall be determined by reference to the table below and shall be based on the date on which the Fundamental Change Effective Date occurs and the price (the "Stock Price") paid, or deemed to be paid, per share of Common Stock in such transaction. If holders of Common Stock receive only cash in the Fundamental Change transaction, the Stock Price shall be the cash amount paid per share of Common Stock. Otherwise, the Stock Price shall be the average of the Closing Prices of the Common Stock for each of the ten consecutive Trading Days prior to but excluding the Fundamental Change Effective Date.
     The following table sets forth the Additional Share amounts, if any, by which the applicable Conversion Rate shall be increased for each Stock Price and Fundamental Change Effective Date.
 
     If the actual Stock Price or Fundamental Change Effective Date is not set forth in the table above, then:
     (i) if the actual Stock Price on the Fundamental Change Effective Date is between two Stock Price amounts in the table or the actual Fundamental Change Effective Date is between two Fundamental Change Effective Dates in the table, the Additional Share amounts will be determined by a straight-line interpolation between the Additional Share amounts set forth for the higher and lower Stock Prices and the two Fundamental Change Effective Dates on the table based on a 365-day year;
     (ii) if the actual Stock Price on the Fundamental Change Effective Date exceeds $100.00 per share of Common Stock, subject to adjustment as set forth herein, no adjustment to the Conversion Rate shall be made; and
     (iii) if the actual Stock Price on the Fundamental Change Effective Date is less than $19.50 per share of Common Stock, subject to adjustment as set forth herein, no adjustment to the Conversion Rate shall be made.
     The Stock Prices set forth in the first column of the table above will be adjusted as of any date on which the Conversion Rate of the Securities is adjusted pursuant to Section 4.06 hereof. The adjusted Stock Prices will equal the Stock Prices applicable immediately prior to such adjustment multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Stock Price adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. The number of Additional Share amounts set forth in the table above will be adjusted in the same manner as the Conversion Rate as set forth in Section 4.06 hereof.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the Conversion Rate exceed 51.2821 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Securities, subject to adjustment in the same manner as the Conversion Rate as set forth in subsections (a) through (e) of Section 4.06 hereof.
 
     Section 4.02. .
Conversion Procedure
     (a) To convert a Security, a Holder must (1) complete and manually sign the conversion notice on the back of the Security (which shall be substantially in the form set forth in the form of Security attached as Exhibit A under the heading "Conversion Notice") and deliver such notice to the Conversion Agent, (2) surrender the Security to the Conversion Agent, (3) furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents if required by the Conversion Agent, (4) pay an amount equal to the interest payable on the next Interest Payment Date if and as required by Section 4.02(c) and (5) pay all transfer or similar taxes, if required pursuant to Section 4.04. The date on which the Holder of a Security satisfies all of the foregoing requirements is the "Conversion Date" with respect to such Security. Upon the conversion of a Security, the Company shall deliver the amounts determined in accordance with Section 4.12 which shall be owing upon such conversion as promptly as practicable after the applicable Conversion Reference Period but in any event not later than the third Business Day following the last Trading Day of such Conversion Reference Period. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, in the case of Global Securities, Securities may be surrendered in accordance with the Applicable Procedures of the Depositary as in effect from time to time.
     (b) A Holder shall not be entitled to any rights of a holder of Common Stock until such Holder has converted its Securities and received upon conversion thereof shares of Common Stock. The person in whose name any certificate or certificates for shares of Common Stock shall be issuable upon such conversion, if any, shall become on the date any such certificate or certificates are delivered to such Holder in accordance with the provisions of this Article 4, the holder of record of the shares represented thereby. Except as set forth in this Indenture, no payment or adjustment will be made for dividends or distributions declared or made on shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of a Security prior to the issuance of such shares of Common Stock.
     (c) Holders of Securities surrendered for conversion (in whole or in part) during the period from the close of business on any Regular Record Date to the opening of business on the next succeeding Interest Payment Date will receive the semiannual interest payable on such Securities on the corresponding Interest Payment Date notwithstanding the conversion, and such interest shall be payable on the corresponding Interest Payment Date to the Holder of the Security as of the close of business on the Regular Record Date. Upon surrender of any such Securities for conversion after the close of business on such Regular Record Date, such Securities shall also be accompanied by payment by the Holders of such Securities in funds to the Conversion Agent acceptable to the Company of an amount equal to the interest payable on such corresponding Interest Payment Date; that no such payment need be made: (1) in connection with a conversion following the Regular Record Date preceding the Final Maturity Date; (2) if the Company has specified a Fundamental Change Purchase Date that is after a Regular Record Date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date; or (3) to the extent of any overdue interest, if any overdue interest exists at the time of conversion with respect to such Security. Except as otherwise provided in this Section 4.02(c), no payment or adjustment will be made for accrued and unpaid interest on a converted Security. Accrued and unpaid interest shall be deemed paid in full, rather than cancelled, extinguished or forfeited. The Company shall not be required to convert any Securities which are surrendered for conversion without payment of interest as required by this Section 4.02(c).
provided
 
     (d) In the case of any Security which is converted in part only, upon such conversion the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder thereof, without service charge, a new Security or Securities of authorized denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to, and in exchange for, the unconverted portion of the principal amount of such Security.
     Section 4.03. .
Fractional Shares
     The Company will not issue fractional shares of Common Stock upon conversion of Securities. If more than one Security shall be surrendered for conversion at one time by the same Holder, the number of full shares that shall be issuable upon conversion shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities (or specified portions thereof to the extent permitted hereby) so surrendered. In lieu of any fractional shares, the Company shall pay an amount in cash equal to the applicable fraction of a share multiplied by the arithmetic average of the Volume Weighted Average Price of the Common Stock for the 40 consecutive Trading Days of the Conversion Reference Period, rounding to the nearest whole cent.
     Section 4.04. .
Taxes on Conversion
     The issue of stock certificates, if any, on conversion of Securities shall be made without charge to the converting Holder for any documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax in respect of the issue thereof. The Company shall not, however, be required to pay any such tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue and delivery of stock in any name other than that of the Holder of any Security converted, and the Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any such stock certificate unless and until the Person or Persons requesting the issue thereof shall have paid to the Company the amount of such tax or shall have established to the satisfaction of the Company that such tax has been paid.
     Section 4.05. .
Company To Provide Common Stock
     (a) The Company shall, prior to issuance of any Securities hereunder, and from time to time as may be necessary, reserve, out of its authorized but unissued Common Stock, a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock to permit the conversion of all outstanding Securities in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
     (b) All shares of Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Securities shall be newly issued shares or treasury shares, shall be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and shall be free from preemptive or similar rights and free of any lien or adverse claim as the result of any action by the Company.
     (c) The Company will endeavor promptly to comply with all federal and state securities laws regulating the offer and delivery of shares of Common Stock upon conversion of Securities, if any, and will list or cause to have listed such shares of Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange, or each national securities exchange or over the counter market or such other market on which the Common Stock is then listed or quoted.
     Section 4.06. .
Adjustment of Conversion Rate
     The Conversion Rate shall be adjusted from time to time by the Company as follows:
 
     (a) If the Company issues Common Stock as a dividend or distribution on Common Stock to all holders of Common Stock, or if the Company effects a share split or share combination, the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
Any adjustment made pursuant to this Section 4.06(a) shall become effective on the date that is immediately after (x) the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such dividend or other distribution or (y) the date on which such split or combination becomes effective, as applicable. If any dividend or distribution described in this clause Section 4.06(a) is declared but not so paid or made, the new Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
     (b) If the Company issues to all holders of Common Stock any rights, warrants, options or other securities entitling them for a period of not more than 45 days after the date of issuance thereof to subscribe for or purchase Common Stock, or if the Company issues to all holders of Common Stock securities convertible into Common Stock for a period of not more than 45 days after the date of issuance thereof, in either case at an exercise price per share of Common Stock or a conversion price per share of Common Stock less than the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the Business Day immediately preceding the time of announcement of such issuance, the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
For purposes of this Section 4.06(b), in determining whether any rights, warrants, options, other securities or convertible securities entitle the holders to subscribe for or purchase, or exercise a conversion right for, Common Stock at less than the applicable Closing Price of the Common Stock, and in determining the aggregate exercise or conversion price payable for such Common Stock, there shall be taken into account any consideration received by the Company for such rights, warrants, options, other securities or convertible securities and any amount payable on exercise or conversion thereof, with the value of such consideration, if other than cash, to be determined by the Board of Directors of the Company. Any adjustment made pursuant to this Section 4.06(b) shall become effective on the date that is immediately after the date fixed for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive such rights, warrants, options, other securities or convertible securities. If any right, warrant, option, other security or convertible security described in this Section 4.06(b) is not exercised or converted prior to the expiration of the exercisability or convertibility thereof, the new Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such right, warrant, option, other security or convertible security had not been so issued.
     (c) If the Company distributes capital stock, evidences of indebtedness or other assets or property of the Company to all holders of Common Stock, excluding:
     (1) dividends, distributions, rights, warrants, options, other securities or convertible securities referred to in Section 4.06(a) or (b) above,
     (2) dividends or distributions paid exclusively in cash, and
     (3) Spin-Offs described below in this Section 4.06(c),
then the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
An adjustment to the Conversion Rate made pursuant to this paragraph shall be made successively whenever any such distribution is made and shall become effective on the ex-dividend date for such distribution.
     If the Company distributes to all holders of Common Stock capital stock of any class or series, or similar equity interest, of or relating to a subsidiary or other business unit of the Company (a "Spin-Off"), the Conversion Rate in effect immediately before the close of business on the date fixed for determination of holders of Common Stock entitled to receive such distribution will be adjusted based on the following formula:
An adjustment to the Conversion Rate made pursuant to this paragraph will occur on the 10th Trading Day from and including the effective date of the Spin-Off.
     If any such dividend or distribution described in this Section 4.06(c) is declared but not paid or made, the new Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
     (d) If the Company pays or makes any dividend or distribution consisting exclusively of cash to all holders of Common Stock, the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
An adjustment to the Conversion Rate made pursuant to this Section 4.06(d) shall become effective on the ex-dividend date for such dividend or distribution. If any dividend or distribution described in this Section 4.06(d) is declared but not so paid or made, the new Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
     If the Company fails to pay a cash dividend or distribution for a period in which a regularly scheduled dividend has in prior periods been paid in accordance with past practice, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted using the formula in this Section 4(d), with the ex-dividend date being deemed to be the second to last trading day in the second month of the calendar quarter in question, and "C" being deemed to be zero.
     Whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted, the Dividend Threshold Amount shall be adjusted by multiplying such Dividend Threshold Amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate prior to adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate following such adjustment, except that no such adjustment will be made to the Dividend Threshold Amount on account of any adjustment to the Conversion Rate pursuant to this Section 4(d).
     (e) If the Company or any of its subsidiaries makes a payment in respect of a tender offer or exchange offer for Common Stock to the extent that the cash and value of any other consideration included in the payment per share of Common Stock exceeds the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the last date on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (the "Expiration Time"), the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
If the application of the foregoing formula would result in a decrease in the Conversion Rate, no adjustment to the Conversion Rate will be made.
     Any adjustment to the Conversion Rate made pursuant to this Section 4.06(e) shall become effective on the date immediately following the determination of the average of the Closing Prices of Common Stock for purposes of SP1 above. If the Company or one of its subsidiaries is obligated to purchase Common Stock pursuant to any such tender or exchange offer but is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchase or all such purchases are rescinded, the new Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would be in effect if such tender or exchange offer had not been made.
     (f) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 4.06, the Conversion Rate shall not exceed 51.2821 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Securities, subject to adjustment in the manner that the Conversion Rate is subject to adjustment as set forth in subsections (a) through (e) of this Section 4.06.
     (g) In addition to the adjustments pursuant to clauses (a) through (e) above, the Company may increase the Conversion Rate in order to avoid or diminish any United States federal income tax to holders of Common Stock resulting from any dividend or distribution of capital shares (or rights to acquire Common Stock) or from any event treated as such for United States federal income tax purposes. The Company may also, from time to time, to the extent permitted by applicable law, increase the Conversion Rate by any amount for any period if the Company has determined that such increase would be in the best interests of the Company. If the Company makes such determination, it will be conclusive and the Company will mail to Holders of the Securities a notice of the increased Conversion Rate and the period during which it will be in effect at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date the increased Conversion Rate takes effect in accordance with applicable law.
     (h) If the Company has in effect a rights plan while any Securities remain outstanding, Holders will receive, upon a conversion of Securities in respect of which the Company is required to deliver shares of Common Stock, in addition to such shares of Common Stock, rights under the Company's stockholder rights agreement unless, prior to conversion, the rights have expired, terminated or been redeemed or unless the rights have separated from the
 
Common Stock. If the rights provided for in the rights plan adopted by the Company have separated from the Common Stock in accordance with the provisions of the applicable stockholder rights agreement so that Holders would not be entitled to receive any rights in respect of Common Stock, if any, that the Company is required to deliver upon conversion of Securities, the Conversion Rate will be adjusted at the time of separation as if the Company had distributed to all holders of Common Stock, capital stock, evidences of indebtedness or other assets or property pursuant to Section 4.06(c) above, subject to readjustment upon the subsequent expiration, termination or redemption of the rights.
     (i) For purposes of this Section 4.06, the number of shares of Common Stock at any time outstanding shall not include shares held in the treasury of the Company but shall include shares issuable in respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock.
     Section 4.07. .
No Adjustment
     (a) The Company shall not be required to make any adjustment to the Conversion Rate in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.06 if Holders of the Securities are permitted to participate, on an as-converted basis, in the transactions described in Section 4.06 (assuming for this purpose that each $1,000 principal amount of Securities were convertible solely into a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate).
     (b) No adjustment in the Conversion Rate shall be required to be made unless the adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least 1% of the Conversion Price. If the adjustment is not made because the adjustment does not change the Conversion Price by at least 1%, then the adjustment that is not made will be carried forward and taken into account in any future adjustment. All required calculations will be made to the nearest cent or 1/1,000th of a share, as the case may be. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all adjustments not previously made shall have effect with respect to any conversion of Securities.
     (c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, in addition to the other events set forth herein on account of which no adjustment to the Conversion Rate shall be made, the applicable Conversion Rate shall not be adjusted for: (i) the issuance of any Common Stock pursuant to any present or future plan providing for the reinvestment of dividends or interest payable on securities of the Company and the investment of additional optional amounts in Common Stock under any plan; (ii) the issuance of any shares of Common Stock or options or rights to purchase those shares pursuant to any present or future employee, director or consultant benefit plan, employee agreement or arrangement or program of the Company; (iii) the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any option, warrant, right, or exercisable, exchangeable or convertible security outstanding as of the date the Securities were first issued; (iv) a change in the par value of the Common Stock; (v) accumulated and unpaid dividends or distributions; and (vi) as a result of a tender offer solely to holders of fewer than 100 shares of Common Stock.
     (d) Notwithstanding anything in this Section 4.07 to the contrary, in no event shall the Conversion Rate be adjusted so that the Conversion Price would be less than $0.01.
 
     Section 4.08. .
Notice of Adjustment
     Whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted as herein provided, the Company shall promptly file with the Trustee and any Conversion Agent other than the Trustee, an Officer's Certificate setting forth the Conversion Rate after such adjustment and setting forth a brief statement of the facts requiring such adjustment. Promptly after delivery of such certificate, the Company shall prepare a notice of such adjustment of the Conversion Rate setting forth the adjusted Conversion Rate and the date on which each adjustment becomes effective and shall mail such notice of such adjustment of the Conversion Rate to Holders within 20 Business Days of the effective date of such adjustment. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the legality or validity of any such adjustment.
Unless and until a Trust Officer of the Trustee shall have received such Officer's Certificate, the Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any adjustment of the Conversion Rate and may assume that the last Conversion Rate of which it has knowledge is still in effect.
     Section 4.09. .
Notice of Certain Transactions
     In the event that the Company takes any action which would require an adjustment to the Conversion Rate, the Company takes any action that requires the execution of a supplemental indenture in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.10 or if there is a dissolution or liquidation of the Company, the Company shall mail to Holders and file with the Trustee a notice stating the proposed record or effective date, as the case may be. The Company shall mail such notice at least 20 days before such proposed effective date. Failure to mail such notice or any defect therein shall not affect the validity of any transaction referred to in this Section 4.09.
   Section 4.10. .
Effect of Reclassification, Consolidation, Merger or Sale on Conversion Privilege
     (a) If any of following events occur (each, a "Business Combination"), namely:
     (1) any recapitalization, reclassification or change of the Common Stock, other than (A) a change in par value, or from par value to no par value, or from no par value to par value, or (B) as a result of subdivision or a combination,
     (2) a consolidation, merger or combination of the Company with another Person,
     (3) a sale, lease or other transfer to another Person of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, or
     (4) any statutory share exchange of the Company with another Person,
in each case as a result of which holders of Common Stock are entitled to receive stock, other securities, other property or assets (including cash or any combination thereof) with respect to or in exchange for Common Stock, the Company or the successor or purchasing corporation, as the case may be, shall execute with the Trustee a supplemental indenture (which shall comply with the TIA as in force at the date of execution of such supplemental indenture if such supplemental indenture is then required to so comply) providing that from and after the effective date of such Business Combination, upon conversion of Securities, the settlement of the Conversion Value in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.12 shall be based on, and each Remaining Share, if any, deliverable in respect of any such settlement shall consist of, the kind and amount of shares of stock, other securities or other property or assets (including
 
cash or any combination thereof) which holders of Common Stock are entitled to receive in respect of each share of Common Stock upon such Business Combination. For purposes of the foregoing, where a Business Combination involves a transaction that causes the Common Stock to be converted into the right to receive more than a single type of consideration based upon any form of stockholder election, such consideration will be deemed to be the weighted average of the types and amounts of consideration received by the holders of Common Stock that affirmatively make such an election. If, in the case of any such Business Combination, the stock or other securities and assets receivable thereupon by a holder of shares of Common Stock includes shares of stock or other securities and assets of a corporation other than the successor or purchasing corporation, as the case may be, in such Business Combination, then such supplemental indenture shall also be executed by such other corporation and shall contain such additional provisions to protect the interests of the Holders of the Securities as the Board of Directors shall reasonably consider necessary by reason of the foregoing, including to the extent practicable the provisions providing for the repurchase rights set forth in Article 3 hereof. The Company shall not become a party to any Business Combination unless its terms are materially consistent with the provisions of this Section 4.10. The above provisions of this Section 4.10 shall similarly apply to successive Business Combinations. None of the provisions of this Section 4.10 shall affect the right of a Holder of Securities to convert its Securities in accordance with the provisions of this Article 4 prior to the effective date of a Business Combination.
     If this Section 4.10(a) applies to any event or occurrence, Section 4.06 hereof shall not apply.
     (b) In the event the Company shall execute a supplemental indenture pursuant to this Section 4.10, the Company shall promptly file with the Trustee (1) an Officer's Certificate briefly stating the reasons therefore and that all conditions precedent have been complied with and (2) an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that all conditions precedent thereto and hereunder have been complied with, and shall promptly mail notice of the execution of such supplemental indenture to all Holders. Failure to mail such notice or any defect therein shall not affect the validity of such transaction and such supplemental indenture.
     Section 4.11. .
Trustee's Disclaimer
     (a) The Trustee shall have no duty to calculate the Conversion Price or to make any computation or determination in connection therewith or to determine when an adjustment under this Article 4 should be made, how it should be made or what such adjustment should be, but may accept as conclusive evidence of the same or the correctness of any such adjustment, and shall be protected in relying upon, an Officer's Certificate and Opinion of Counsel, including the Officer's Certificate with respect thereto which the Company is obligated to file with the Trustee pursuant to Section 4.08. The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or value of any securities or assets issued upon conversion of Securities, and the Trustee shall not be responsible for the Company's failure to comply with any provisions of this Article 4, including, without limitation, whether or not a Supplemental Indenture is required to be executed.
     (b) The Trustee shall not be under any responsibility to determine the correctness of any provisions contained in any supplemental indenture executed pursuant to Section 4.10, but may accept as conclusive evidence of the correctness thereof, and shall be fully protected in relying upon, the Officer's Certificate and Opinion of Counsel, with respect thereto which the Company is obligated to file with the Trustee pursuant to Section 4.10.
 
     (c) Neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent or any other Agent shall be responsible for determining whether any event contemplated by this Article 4 has occurred which makes the Securities eligible for conversion until the Company has delivered to the Trustee and any Conversion Agent and each other Agent an Officer's Certificate stating that such event has occurred, on which Officer's Certificate the Trustee and any such Conversion Agent and other Agent may conclusively rely, and the Company agrees to deliver such Officer's Certificate to the Trustee and any such Conversion Agent and each other Agent promptly after the occurrence of any such event.
     Section 4.12. .
Settlement Upon Conversion
     (a) Holders surrendering Securities for conversion shall be entitled to receive, for each $1,000 principal amount of Securities surrendered for conversion: (A) cash in an amount equal to the lesser of (1) $1,000 and (2) the Conversion Value; and (B) if the Conversion Value is greater than $1,000, a number of shares of Common Stock (the "Remaining Shares") equal to the sum of the Daily Share Amounts for each of the 40 consecutive Trading Days in the Conversion Reference Period, appropriately adjusted to reflect events occurring during the Conversion Reference Period that would result in an adjustment to Conversion Rate in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.06, subject to the Company's right to deliver cash in lieu of all or a portion of such Remaining Shares as set forth in Section 4.12(b). The Company will deliver such cash and any shares of Common Stock, together with any cash payable for fractional shares, to such Holder in accordance with Section 4.02(a).
     (b) The Company may elect to pay cash to the Holders of Securities surrendered for conversion in lieu of all or a portion of the Remaining Shares otherwise issuable pursuant to Section 4.12(a). In such event, on any day prior to the first Trading Day of the applicable Conversion Reference Period, the Company may specify a percentage of the Daily Share Amount that will be settled in cash (the "Cash Percentage"). If the Company elects to specify a Cash Percentage, the amount of cash that the Company will deliver for each Trading Day in the applicable Conversion Reference Period will equal the product of: (1) the Cash Percentage, (2) the Daily Share Amount for such Trading Day and (3) the Volume Weighted Average Price of the Company's Common Stock on such Trading Day. The number of shares that the Company shall deliver in respect of each Trading Day in the applicable Conversion Reference Period will be a percentage of the Daily Share Amount equal to 100% minus the Cash Percentage. If the Company does not specify a Cash Percentage by the start of the applicable Conversion Reference Period, the Company shall settle 100% of the Daily Share Amount for each Trading Day in the applicable Conversion Reference Period with shares of Common Stock; , , that the Company shall pay cash in lieu of fractional shares otherwise issuable upon conversion of the Securities in accordance with Section 4.03.
provided
however
     (c) For the purposes of Sections 4.12(a) and (b), in the event that any of Conversion Value, Daily Conversion Value, Daily Share Amounts, or Volume Weighted Average Price is not calculable for all portions of the Conversion Reference Period, the Company's Board of Directors shall in good faith determine the values necessary to calculate the Conversion Value, Daily Conversion Value, Daily Share Amounts, and Volume Weighted Average Price (which calculations shall be evidenced by an Officer's Certificate delivered to the Trustee).
 
     Section 5.01. .
Payment of Securities
     (a) The Company shall promptly make all payments in respect of the Securities on the dates and in the manner provided in the Securities and this Indenture. A payment of principal or interest shall be considered paid on the date it is due if the Paying Agent (other than the Company) (or if the Company is the Paying Agent, the segregated account or separate trust fund maintained by the Company pursuant to Section 2.04) holds by 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on that date money, deposited by or on behalf of the Company sufficient to make the payment. Accrued and unpaid interest on any Security that is payable (whether or not punctually paid or duly provided for) on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name that Security is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose. The Company shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, pay interest in immediately available funds on overdue principal and interest at the annual rate borne by the Securities compounded semiannually, which interest shall accrue from the date such overdue amount was originally due to the day preceding the date payment of such amount, including interest thereon, has been made or duly provided for. All such interest shall be payable on demand.
     (b) Payment of the principal of and interest, if any, on the Securities shall be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York (which shall initially be the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee) in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that at the option of the Company payment of interest on any Certificated Securities having an aggregate principal amount of $5,000,000 or less may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address appears in the Register; that a Holder of a Certificated Security having an aggregate principal amount of more than $5,000,000 will be paid by wire transfer in immediately available funds at the election of such Holder if such Holder has provided wire transfer instructions to the Trustee at least 10 Business Days prior to the payment date. Any wire transfer instructions received by the Trustee will remain in effect until revoked by the Holder. In the case of a permanent Global Security, interest payable on any applicable payment date will be paid to the Depositary, with respect to that portion of such permanent Global Security held for its account by Cede & Co. for the purpose of permitting such party to credit the interest received by it in respect of such permanent Global Security to the accounts of the beneficial owners thereof.
provided
however
provided further
     Section 5.02. .
Reports by Company and the Guarantors
     (a) The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, within 15 days after it files them with the SEC, copies of all annual reports, quarterly reports and other documents that it files with the SEC pursuant to Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. The Company also shall comply with the provisions of TIA Section 314(a).
 
     (b) Delivery of such reports and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the compliance by each of the Company and the Guarantors with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officer's Certificates).
     Section 5.03. .
Compliance Certificates
     The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, within one hundred twenty (120) days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company (beginning with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007), an Officer's Certificate as to the signer's knowledge of the Company's compliance with all conditions and covenants on its part contained in this Indenture and stating whether or not the signer knows of any Default or Event of Default. If such signer knows of such a Default or Event of Default, the Officer's Certificate shall describe the Default or Event of Default and the efforts to remedy the same. For the purposes of this Section 5.03, compliance shall be determined without regard to any grace period or requirement of notice provided pursuant to the terms of this Indenture. Such certificates need not comply with Section 12.04 of this Indenture.
     The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, as soon as possible and in any event within five days after the Company becomes aware of the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default an Officer's Certificate setting forth the details of such Default or Event of Default and the action which the Company proposes to take with respect thereto.
     Section 5.04. .
Further Instruments and Acts
     Upon request of the Trustee, the Company and the Guarantors will execute and deliver such further instruments and do such further acts as may be reasonably necessary or proper to carry out more effectively the purposes of this Indenture.
     Section 5.05. .
Maintenance of Corporate Existence
     Subject to Article 6, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence.
     Section 5.06. .
Stay, Extension And Usury Laws
     The Company covenants (to the extent that they may lawfully do so) that it shall not at any time insist upon, plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay, extension or usury law or other law which would prohibit or forgive the Company from paying all or any portion of the principal of or accrued but unpaid interest on the Securities as contemplated herein, wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, or which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture, and the Company (to the extent it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not, by resort to any such law, hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
     Section 5.07. .
Maintenance of Office or Agency
     The Company shall maintain an office or agency where Securities may be presented or surrendered for payment. The Company also will maintain an office or agency where Securities may be
 
surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served. The office of the Trustee, at its Corporate Trust Office, will be such office or agency of the Company, unless the Company shall designate and maintain some other office or agency for one or more of such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location and any change in the location of any such offices or agencies. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required offices or agencies or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the office of the Trustee and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
     The Company may from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies (in or outside of The City of New York) where the Securities may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes, and may from time to time rescind such designation. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and any change in the location of any such office or agency.
     Section 5.08. .
Guarantees
     If any Subsidiary of the Company (including any Subsidiary of the Company formed or acquired after the Issue Date) shall become a guarantor of the 5.750% Notes or of the 6.375% Notes, then such Subsidiary shall (i) execute and deliver to the Trustee a supplemental indenture pursuant to which such Subsidiary shall unconditionally Guarantee all of the Company's obligations under the Securities and this Indenture on the terms set forth in Article Eleven and (ii) deliver to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that such supplemental indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by such Subsidiary and constitutes a legal, valid, binding and enforceable obligation of such Subsidiary, subject to customary exceptions. Such opinion need not comply with Section 12.04 of this Indenture.
     Section 6.01.
Company May Consolidate, Etc., Only on Certain Terms.
     (a) The Company shall not consolidate with or merge with or into (whether or not the Company is the surviving Person) any other entity and the Company shall not sell, convey, assign, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the Company's assets to any Person in a single transaction or series of related transactions, unless:
     (1) either (A) the Company shall be the surviving Person or (B) the surviving Person (if other than the Company) shall be a corporation or limited liability company organized and validly existing under the laws of the United States of America or any State thereof or the District of Columbia, and shall, in any such case, expressly assume by a supplemental indenture, the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on all the Securities and the performance and observance of every covenant of this Indenture to be performed or observed on the part of the Company;
     (2) after giving effect to the transaction, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing;
 
     (3) if the Company will not be the resulting or surviving Person, the Company shall have, at or prior to the effective date of such consolidation or merger or sale, conveyance, assignment, transfer, lease or other disposition, delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger or transfer complies with this Article 6.01 and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction, such supplemental indenture complies with this Article, and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
     Section 6.02. .
Successor Substituted
     Upon any consolidation of the Company with, or merger of the Company into, any other Person or any sale, conveyance, assignment, transfer, lease or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Company's assets in accordance with Section 6.01, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such sale, conveyance, assignment, transfer, lease or other disposition is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the predecessor Person shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities.
     Section 7.01. .
Events of Default
     (a) An "Event of Default" wherever used herein, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
     (1) a default by the Company in the payment of the principal amount or Fundamental Change Purchase Price of any Security when the same becomes due and payable whether at the Final Maturity Date, upon purchase, acceleration or otherwise; or
     (2) a default by the Company in the payment of any interest under the Securities, which default continues for 30 days after the date when due; or
     (3) a default by the Company in the delivery when due of all cash and any shares of Common Stock deliverable upon conversion of the Securities, which default continues for 15 days; or
     (4) failure by the Company to provide an Issuer Fundamental Change Notice within the time required to provide such notice as set forth in Section 3.01(b) hereof; or
     (5) the failure by the Company to perform or observe any other term, covenant or agreement contained in the Securities or this Indenture for a period of 60 days after receipt by the Company of a Notice of Default specifying such failure; or
 
     (6) one or more defaults shall have occurred under any of the agreements, indentures or instruments under which the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary then has outstanding indebtedness in excess of $40 million, individually or in the aggregate, and either:
     (A) such default results from the failure to pay such indebtedness at its stated final maturity and such default has not been cured or the indebtedness repaid in full within ten days of the default; or
     (B) such default or defaults have resulted in the acceleration of the maturity of such indebtedness and such acceleration has not been rescinded or such indebtedness repaid in full within ten days of the acceleration;
     (7) one or more judgments or orders that exceed $40 million in the aggregate (net of amounts covered by insurance or bonded) for the payment of money have been entered by a court or courts of competent jurisdiction against the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary and such judgment or judgments have not been satisfied, stayed, annulled or rescinded within 60 days after such judgment or judgments become final and nonappealable; or
     (8) any Guarantee by a Significant Subsidiary shall for any reason cease to be, or shall for any reason be asserted in writing by any Guarantor or the Company not to be, in full force and effect and enforceable in accordance with its terms, except to the extent contemplated by this Indenture and any such Guarantee; or
     (9) the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary that is a Significant Subsidiary pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law:
     (A) commences a voluntary insolvency proceeding;
     (B) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary insolvency proceeding or consents to its dissolution or winding-up;
     (C) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for any substantial part of its property; or
     (D) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors;
or takes any comparable action under any foreign laws relating to insolvency; , , that the liquidation of any Restricted Subsidiary into another Restricted Subsidiary, other than as part of a credit reorganization, shall not constitute an Event of Default under this Section 7.01(a)(9); or
provided
however
     (10) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:
     (A) is for relief against the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary that is a Significant Subsidiary in an involuntary insolvency proceeding;
 
     (B) appoints a Custodian of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary that is a Significant Subsidiary or for any substantial part of their property;
     (C) orders the winding-up, liquidation or dissolution of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary that is a Significant Subsidiary;
     (D) orders the presentation of any plan or arrangement, compromise or reorganization of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary that is a Significant Subsidiary; or
     (E) grants any similar relief under any foreign laws;
     and in each such case the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 90 days.
     (b) Notwithstanding Section 7.01(a) no Event of Default under clause (5) of Section 7.01(a) shall occur until the Trustee notifies the Company in writing, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then Outstanding notify the Company and the Trustee in writing, of the Default (a "Notice of Default"), and the Company does not cure the Default within the time specified in clause (5) of Section 7.01(a), or obtain a waiver, after receipt of such notice. A notice given pursuant to this Section 7.01 shall be given by registered or certified mail, must specify the Default, demand that it be remedied and state that the notice is a Notice of Default. When any Default under this Section 7.01 is cured, it ceases.
     (c) The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 30 days after becoming aware of the occurrence of a Default or Event of Default, written notice thereof.
     Section 7.02. .
Acceleration
     If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in clause (9) or (10) of Section 7.01(a)) shall occur and be continuing with respect to this Indenture, the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then Outstanding may, and the Trustee at the request of such Holders shall, declare all unpaid principal of and accrued interest on all Securities to be due and payable, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by the Holders of the Securities). Upon any such declaration, such principal and interest shall become due and payable immediately. If an Event of Default specified in clause (9) or (10) of Section 7.01(a) occurs and is continuing, then all the Securities shall ipso facto become and be due and payable immediately in an amount equal to the principal amount of the Securities, together with accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date the Securities become due and payable, without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder. Thereupon, the Trustee may, at its discretion, proceed to protect and enforce the rights of the Holders of the Securities by appropriate judicial proceedings.
     After a declaration of acceleration with respect to the Securities, but before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities Outstanding, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if:
     (a) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay
 
     (1) all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee under this Indenture and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel,
     (2) all overdue interest on all Outstanding Securities,
     (3) the principal of any Outstanding Securities which have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and interest thereon at the rate borne by the Securities, and
     (4) to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest upon overdue interest at the rate borne by the Securities;
     (b) the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction; and
     (c) all Defaults or Events of Default, other than the non-payment of principal of and interest on the Securities which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 7.13. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent elected by the Company, the sole remedy for an Event of Default relating to the failure by the Company to comply with the provisions of Section 5.02 of this Indenture shall, for the first 365 days after the occurrence of such an Event of Default, consist exclusively of the right to receive special interest ("Special Interest") on the Securities at an annual rate equal to 0.50% of the principal amount of the Securities. Such Special Interest shall be paid semi-annually in arrears, with the first semi-annual payment due on the first Interest Payment Date following the date on which such Special Interest began to accrue on the Securities. Special Interest shall accrue on all Outstanding Securities from and including the date on which an Event of Default relating to a failure to comply with the provisions of Section 5.02 shall first occur to but not including the 365th day thereafter (or such earlier date on which such Event of Default shall have been cured or waived). On such 365th day (or earlier, if the Event of Default relating to the failure to comply with Section 5.02 is cured or waived prior to such 365th day), such Special Interest shall cease to accrue and, if the Event of Default relating to the failure to comply with Section 5.02 shall not have been cured or waived prior to such 365th day, the Securities shall be subject to acceleration as provided in this Section 7.02. The provisions of this paragraph shall not affect the rights of Holders in the event of the occurrence of any other Event of Default. In the event the Company shall not elect to pay Special Interest upon an Event of Default resulting from the failure of the Company to comply with the provisions of Section 5.02, the Securities shall be subject to acceleration as provided above in this Section 7.02.
     If the Company shall elect to pay Special Interest in connection with an Event of Default relating to its failure to comply with the requirements of Section 5.02, (1) the Company shall notify all Holders and the Trustee and Paying Agent of such election on or before the close of business on the date on which such Event of Default shall first occur, and (2) all references herein to interest accrued or payable as of any date shall include any Special Interest accrued or payable as of such date as provided in this Section 7.02.
     Section 7.03. .
Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee
     The Company covenants that if:
 
     (a) default is made in the payment of any interest on any Security when such interest becomes due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days, or
     (b) default is made in the payment of the principal of any Security at the Stated Maturity thereof,
the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, the whole amount then due and payable on such Securities for principal and interest, with interest upon the overdue principal and, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, upon overdue installments of interest, at the rate borne by the Securities; and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
     If the Company fails to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, may institute a judicial proceeding for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid and may prosecute such proceeding to judgment or final decree, and may enforce the same against the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities and collect the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities, wherever situated.
     If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders under this Indenture or any Guarantee by such appropriate private or judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in any Guarantee or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy, subject however to Section 7.12. No recovery of any such judgment upon any property of the Company or any Guarantor shall affect or impair any rights, powers or remedies of the Trustee or the Holders.
     Section 7.04. .
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
     In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or the property of the Company or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the principal of the Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Company for the payment of overdue principal or interest) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise,
     (a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Securities and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and of the Holders allowed in such judicial proceeding, and
     (b) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay the
 
Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 8.07.
     Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
     Section 7.05. .
Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities
     All rights of action and claims under this Indenture, the Securities or the Guarantees may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
     Section 7.06. .
Application of Money Collected
     Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article 7 or otherwise on behalf of the Holders or the Trustee pursuant to this Article 7 or through any proceeding or any arrangement or restructuring in anticipation or in lieu of any proceeding contemplated by this Article 7 and any money or other property distributable in respect of the Company's obligations under this Indenture after an Event of Default shall be applied, subject to applicable law, in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal or interest, upon presentation of the Securities and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
     FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee (or any predecessor trustee) under Section 8.07;
     SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid upon the Securities for principal and interest, in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal and interest; and
     THIRD: The balance, if any, to the Person or Persons entitled thereto, including the Company, provided that all sums due and owing to the Holders and the Trustee have been paid in full as required by this Indenture.
     Section 7.07. .
Limitation on Suits
     No Holder of any Securities shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture or the Securities, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless
     (a) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default;
 
     (b) the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as trustee hereunder;
     (c) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee a reasonable indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;
     (d) the Trustee for 15 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer (and if requested, provision) of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
     (e) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 15-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities;
it being understood and intended that no one or more Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture or any Security to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture or any Security, except in the manner provided in this Indenture and for the equal and ratable benefit of all the Holders.
     Section 7.08. .
Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Payment and to Convert
     Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder of a Security to receive payment of the principal amount, interest, Fundamental Change Purchase Price, if any, or Special Interest, if any, in respect of the Securities held by such Holder, on or after the respective due dates expressed in the Securities and this Indenture (whether upon repurchase or otherwise), and to convert such Security in accordance with Article 4, and to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective due dates or for the right to convert in accordance with Article 4, is absolute and unconditional and shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of the Holder.
     Section 7.09. .
Restoration of Rights and Remedies
     If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case the Company, any other obligor on the Securities, the Trustee and the Holders shall, subject to any determination in such proceeding, be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder, and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
     Section 7.10. .
Rights and Remedies Cumulative
     No right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
 
     Section 7.11. .
Delay or Omission Not Waiver
     No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Security to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article 7 or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.
     Section 7.12. .
Control by Holders
     The Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for exercising any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, provided that:
     (a) such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture, expose the Trustee to personal liability, or be unduly prejudicial to Holders not joining therein; and
     (b) subject to the provisions of Section 315 of the TIA, the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction.
     Section 7.13. .
Waiver of Past Defaults
     Subject to Section 7.08, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then Outstanding by notice to the Trustee may waive an existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences, except an uncured Default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of or any accrued but unpaid interest on any Security, an uncured failure by the Company to convert any Securities into Common Stock and cash, as applicable, or any Default or Event of Default in respect of any provision of this Indenture or the Securities which, under Section 10.02, cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Security affected. When a Default or Event of Default is waived, it is cured and ceases to exist.
     Section 7.14. .
Undertaking for Costs
     All parties to this Indenture agree, and each Holder of any Security by his acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant, but the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Holder, or group of Holders, holding in the aggregate more than 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, or to any suit instituted by any Holder for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of or interest on, any Security on or after the respective Stated Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of purchase pursuant to Article 3 hereof, on the Fundamental Change Purchase Date).
 
     Section 7.15. .
Remedies Subject to Applicable Law
     All rights, remedies and powers provided by this Article 7 may be exercised only to the extent that the exercise thereof does not violate any applicable provision of law in the premises, and all the provisions of this Indenture are intended to be subject to all applicable mandatory provisions of law which may be controlling in the premises and to be limited to the extent necessary so that they will not render this Indenture invalid, unenforceable or not entitled to be recorded, registered or filed under the provisions of any applicable law.
     Section 8.01. .
Duties of Trustee
     (a) In case an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs;
     (b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default:
     (1) the Trustee undertakes to perform those duties and only those duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
     (2) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture. However, in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture;
     (c) The Trustee may not be relieved from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:
     (1) this clause (c) does not limit the effect of clauses (b) or (d) of this Section 8.01;
     (2) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Trust Officer, unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and
     (3) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Outstanding Securities relating to the time, method and place of
 
conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee under this Indenture;
     (d) No provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it;
     (e) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to clauses (a), (b), (c), (d) and (f) of this Section 8.01; and
     (f) The Trustee shall not be liable for interest on any money or assets received by it except as the Trustee may agree with the Company. Assets held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other assets except to the extent required by law.
     Section 8.02. .
Notice of Default
     Within 90 days after the occurrence of any Default, the Trustee shall transmit by mail to all Holders and any other Persons entitled to receive reports pursuant to Section 313(c) of the TIA, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register, notice of such Default hereunder known to the Trustee, unless such Default shall have been cured or waived; , , that, except in the case of a Default in the payment of the principal of or interest on any Security or the failure to deliver amounts owing upon conversion of a Security in accordance with the provisions of Article 4, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as a trust committee of Trust Officers of the Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interest of the Holders.
provided
however
     Section 8.03. .
Certain Rights of Trustee
     Subject to the provisions of Section 8.01 hereof:
     (a) the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting upon receipt by it of any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
     (b) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;
     (c) the Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and any advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;
     (d) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this
 
Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
     (e) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it in good faith and believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion, rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture;
     (f) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, approval, appraisal, bond, debenture, note, coupon, security or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may deem fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney at the sole cost of the Company and shall incur no liability or additional liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation;
     (g) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder;
     (h) the Trustee shall not be charged with knowledge of or be deemed to have notice of any Default or Event of Default with respect to the Securities unless written notice of such Default or Event of Default shall have been received by the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office from the Company or any Holder of Securities, and such notice references this Indenture and the Securities;
     (i) the permissive rights of the Trustee enumerated herein shall not be construed as duties of the Trustee;
     (j) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, conclusively rely upon an Officer's Certificate;
     (k) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent (including each Agent), custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder;
     (l) the Trustee may request that the Company deliver an Officers' Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture, which Officer's Certificate may be signed by any person authorized to sign an Officer's Certificate, including any person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded; and
 
     (m) the Trustee shall not be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations under this Indenture arising out of or caused, directly or indirectly, by circumstances beyond its reasonable control, including, without limitation, acts of God; earthquakes; fire; flood; terrorism; wars and other military disturbances; sabotage; epidemics; riots; interruptions; loss or malfunctions of utilities, computer (hardware or software) or communication services; accidents; labor disputes; acts of civil or military authority and governmental action.
     Section 8.04. .
Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals, Dispositions of Securities or Application of Proceeds Thereof
     The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof.
     Section 8.05. .
Trustee and Agents May Hold Securities; Collections; etc
     The Trustee, any Paying Agent, Registrar, Conversion Agent or any other agent of the Company, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities, with the same rights it would have if it were not the Trustee, Paying Agent, Registrar, Conversion Agent or such other agent and, subject to TIA Sections 310 and 311, may otherwise deal with the Company and receive, collect, hold and retain collections from the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not the Trustee, Paying Agent, Registrar, Conversion Agent or such other agent.
     Section 8.06. .
Money Held in Trust
     All moneys received by the Trustee shall, until used or applied as herein provided, be held in trust for the purposes for which they were received, but need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by mandatory provisions of law.
     Section 8.07. .
Compensation and Indemnification of Trustee and Its Prior Claim
     The Company covenants and agrees to pay to the Trustee from time to time, and the Trustee shall be entitled to, such compensation as the parties shall agree in writing from time to time for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust) and the Company covenants and agrees to pay or reimburse the Trustee and each predecessor Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by or on behalf of the Trustee in accordance with any of the provisions of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its counsel and of all agents and other persons not regularly in its employ) except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may arise from its gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Company also covenants and agrees to indemnify the Trustee and each predecessor Trustee for, and to hold it harmless against, any claim, loss, liability, tax, assessment or other governmental charge (other than taxes applicable to the Trustee's compensation hereunder) or expense incurred without gross negligence or willful misconduct on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this Indenture or the trusts hereunder and its duties hereunder, including enforcement of this Section 8.07 and also including any liability which the Trustee may incur as a result of failure to withhold, pay or report any tax, assessment or other governmental charge, and the costs and expenses of
 
defending itself against or investigating any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder. The obligations of the Company under this Section 8.07 to compensate and indemnify the Trustee and each predecessor Trustee and to pay or reimburse the Trustee and each predecessor Trustee for reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances shall constitute an additional obligation hereunder and, together with the lien referred in the next sentence, shall survive the satisfaction and discharge, and termination for any reason, of this Indenture and the resignation or removal of the Trustee and each predecessor Trustee. To secure the Company's obligations in this Section 8.07, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities on all money and property held or collected by the Trustee, other than money or property held in trust for the payment of principal of or interest on particular Securities.
     "Trustee" for purposes of this Section shall include any predecessor Trustee; provided, however, that the negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith of any Trustee hereunder shall not affect the rights of any other Trustee hereunder.
     Without prejudice to its other rights hereunder, when the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default specified in Section 7.01(a)(9) or Section 7.01(a)(10), the expenses (including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel) and the compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law.
     Section 8.08. .
Conflicting Interests
     The Trustee shall comply with the provisions of Section 310(b) of the TIA. For purposes of Section 310(b)(1) of the TIA and to the extent permitted thereby, the Trustee, in its capacity as trustee in respect of the Securities, shall not be deemed to have a conflicting interest arising from its capacity as trustee in respect of the 5.750% Notes or the 6.375% Notes issued pursuant to the indenture dated as of July 21, 2005, among the Company, the guarantors named therein, and The Bank of New York as trustee, or any indenture or indentures pursuant to which other securities or certificates of interest or participation in other securities of the Company are outstanding if the requirements for such exclusion set forth in said Section 310(b)(1) are met. Nothing herein shall preclude the Trustee from making the application referred to in the penultimate paragraph of Section 310(b) of the TIA.
     Section 8.09. .
Trustee Eligibility
     There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder which shall be eligible to act as trustee under TIA Section 310(a) and which shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000, to the extent there is an institution eligible and willing to serve. If the Trustee does not have a Corporate Trust Office in The City of New York, the Trustee may appoint an agent in The City of New York reasonably acceptable to the Company to conduct any activities which the Trustee may be required under this Indenture to conduct in The City of New York. If such Trustee publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of federal, state, territorial or District of Columbia supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section 8.09, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section 8.09, the Trustee shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article 8.
 
     Section 8.10. .
Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor Trustee
     (a) No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor trustee pursuant to this Article 8 shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor trustee under Section 8.11.
     (b) The Trustee, or any trustee or trustees hereafter appointed, may at any time resign by giving written notice thereof to the Company. Such resignation shall take effect upon the appointment of a successor Trustee and the acceptance of such appointment by such successor Trustee. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by Section 811 shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation or of any removal of the Trustee as hereinafter provided, the resigning or removed Trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities.
     (c) The Trustee may be removed at any time for any cause or for no cause by an Act of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, delivered to the Trustee and to the Company.
     (d) If at any time:
     (1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of TIA Section 310(b) after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months,
     (2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 8.09 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, or
     (3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent, or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation,
then, in any case, (i) the Company may remove the Trustee, or (ii) subject to Section 7.14, the Holder of any Security who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor trustee. Such court may thereupon, after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, remove the Trustee and appoint a successor trustee.
     (e) If the Trustee shall be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor trustee and shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 8.11. If, within 60 days after such removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, the Company has not appointed a successor Trustee, a successor trustee shall be appointed by the Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities delivered to the Company and the retiring Trustee. Such successor trustee so appointed shall forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment become the successor trustee. If no successor trustee shall have been so appointed
 
by the Company or the Holders of the Securities and accepted appointment in the manner hereinafter provided, the Trustee or the Holder of any Security who has been a bona fide Holder for at least six months may, subject to Section 7.14, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor trustee.
     (f) The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee and each appointment of a successor trustee by mailing written notice of such event by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders of Securities as their names and addresses appear in the register of the Registrar. Each notice shall include the name of the successor trustee and the address of its Corporate Trust Office or agent hereunder.
     Section 8.11. .
Acceptance of Appointment by Successor
     (a) Every successor trustee appointed hereunder shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee as if originally named as Trustee hereunder; but, nevertheless, on the written request of the Company or the successor trustee, upon payment of its charges pursuant to Section 8.07 then unpaid, such retiring Trustee shall pay over to the successor trustee all moneys at the time held by it hereunder, subject nevertheless to its lien provided for in Section 8.07, and shall execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor trustee all such rights, powers, trusts and duties. Upon request of any such successor trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor trustee all such rights and powers.
     (b) No successor trustee with respect to the Securities shall accept appointment as provided in this Section 8.11 unless at the time of such acceptance such successor trustee shall be eligible to act as trustee under the provisions of TIA Section 310(a) and this Article 8 and shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 and have a Corporate Trust Office or an agent selected in accordance with Section 8.09.
     (c) Upon acceptance of appointment by any successor trustee as provided in this Section 8.11, the Company shall give notice thereof to the Holders of the Securities, by mailing such notice to such Holders at their addresses as they shall appear on the Security Register. If the acceptance of appointment is substantially contemporaneous with the appointment, then the notice called for by the preceding sentence may be combined with the notice called for by Section 8.10. If the Company fails to give such notice within 10 days after acceptance of appointment by the successor trustee, the successor trustee shall cause such notice to be given at the expense of the Company.
     Section 8.12. .
Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business
     Any Person into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any Person resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any Person succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate trust business of the Trustee (including the trust created by this Indenture) shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, that such Person shall be eligible under TIA Section 310(a) and this Article 8 and shall have a
provided
 
combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 and have a Corporate Trust Office or an agent selected in accordance with Section 8.09, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto.
     In case at the time such successor to the Trustee shall succeed to the trusts created by this Indenture any of the Securities shall have been authenticated but not delivered, any such successor to the Trustee may adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee and deliver such Securities so authenticated; and, in case at that time any of the Securities shall not have been authenticated, any successor to the Trustee may authenticate such Securities either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of the successor trustee; and in all such cases such certificate shall have the full force which it is anywhere in the Securities or in this Indenture provided that the certificate of the Trustee shall have; provided that the right to adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee or to authenticate Securities in the name of any predecessor Trustee shall apply only to its successor or successors by merger, conversion or consolidation.
     Section 8.13. .
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company
     If and when the Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the Company (or other obligor under the Securities), the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of the TIA regarding the collection of claims against the Company (or any such other obligor). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA Section 311(a) to the extent indicated therein.
     Section 8.14. .
Reports By Trustee
     (a) Within 60 days after June 15 of each year commencing with the first June 15 after the issuance of Securities, the Trustee, if so required under the TIA, shall transmit by mail to all Holders, in the manner and to the extent provided in TIA Section 313(c), a brief report dated as of such June 15 in accordance with and with respect to the matters required by TIA Section 313(a). The Trustee shall also transmit by mail to all Holders, in the manner and to the extent provided in TIA Section 313(c), a brief report in accordance with and with respect to the matters required by TIA Section 313(b)(2).
     (b) A copy of each report transmitted to Holders pursuant to this Section 8.14 shall, at the time of such transmission, be mailed to the Company and filed with each national securities exchange, if any, upon which the Securities are listed and also with the SEC. The Company will notify the Trustee promptly if the Securities are listed on any national securities exchange.
     Section 9.01. .
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture
     This Indenture shall cease to be of further force and effect (except as to any surviving rights of conversion, registration of transfer or exchange of Securities herein expressly provided for and except as further provided below), and the Trustee, on demand of and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, when either:
     (1) all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than (i) Securities which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or
 
paid as provided in Section 2.08 and (ii) Securities for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust and thereafter repaid to the Company as provided in Section 2.04) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
     (2) all such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation have become due and payable, whether on the Final Maturity Date or a Fundamental Change Purchase Date, upon conversion or otherwise,
     provided, that
     (i) the Company has deposited with the Trustee, a Paying Agent (other than the Company or any of its Affiliates) or a Conversion Agent, if applicable, immediately available funds and/or shares of Common Stock, in trust for the purpose of and in an amount sufficient to pay and discharge all indebtedness and obligations related to such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for principal and interest to the date of such deposit and/or for the payment of amounts due upon conversion;
     (ii) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company; and
     (iii) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have been complied with.
     (b) Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company with respect to the Trustee under Section 8.07 and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to clause (2) of Section 9.01(a), the provisions of Sections 2.03, 2.04, 2.05, 2.06, 2.07, 2.08, 2.13 and 5.01 and this Article 9 shall survive until the Securities have been paid in full.
     Section 9.02. .
Application of Trust Money
     Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 2.04, all United States dollars deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 9.01 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal of and interest on, the Securities for whose payment such United States dollars have been deposited with the Trustee.
     Section 9.03. .
Reinstatement
     If the Trustee, any Paying Agent or any Conversion Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with Section 9.02 by reason of any legal proceeding or by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Indenture and the Securities shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 9.01 until such time as the Trustee, such Paying Agent or such Conversion Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 9.02;
 
, , that if the Company has made any payment of the principal of or interest on any Securities because of the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Securities to receive any such payment from the money held by the Trustee, such Paying Agent or such Conversion Agent.
provided
however
     Section 10.01. .
Without Consent of Holders
     (a) The Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture, the Securities or the Guarantees without notice to or consent of any Holder of a Security for the purpose of:
     (1) evidencing a successor to the Company or any Guarantor and the assumption by that successor of the Company or such Guarantor's obligations under this Indenture, the Securities and the Guarantees;
     (2) adding to the covenants of the Company or the Guarantors for the benefit of the Holders or surrendering any right or power conferred upon the Company or a Guarantor;
     (3) securing the obligations of the Company or a Guarantor in respect of the Securities;
     (4) evidencing and providing for the acceptance of the appointment of a successor trustee in accordance with Article 8;
     (5) complying with the requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of this Indenture under the TIA, as contemplated by this Indenture or otherwise;
     (6) providing for conversion rights of Holders if any reclassification or change of Common Stock or any consolidation, merger or sale of all or substantially all of the Company's property and assets occurs or otherwise complying with the provisions of this Indenture in the event of a merger, consolidation or transfer of assets (including the provisions of Section 4.10 and Article 6);
     (7) adding guarantees with respect to the Securities or releasing a Guarantor in accordance with the terms of this Indenture;
     (8) increasing the Conversion Rate in accordance with the terms of the Securities;
     (9) curing any ambiguity, omission, mistake, defect or inconsistency in this Indenture;
 
     (10) making any change that will not adversely affect the rights of the Holders in any material respect; provided that any action to conform the terms of this Indenture to the description of the Securities contained in the prospectus supplement, dated March 1, 2007, relating to the Securities shall not be deemed to be adverse to the Holders.
     Section 10.02. .
With Consent of Holders
     (a) The Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture, the Securities and the Guarantees with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities. However, without the written consent of each Holder affected, an amendment or supplement may not:
     (1) alter the manner of calculation or rate of accrual of interest on any Security, reduce the rate of interest on any Security or extend the time of payment of any installment of interest on any Security;
     (2) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of any Security;
     (3) make any of the Securities payable in money or securities other than that stated in the Securities;
     (4) reduce the principal amount or Fundamental Change Purchase Price payable with respect to any of the Securities;
     (5) make any change that adversely affects the rights of a Holder to convert any of the Securities in any material respect;
     (6) make any change that adversely affects the rights of Holders to require the Company to purchase Securities at the option of Holders in any material respect;
     (7) change the provisions in this Indenture that relate to modifying or amending this Indenture or waiving any past Default or Event of Default;
     (8) release any Guarantor from any of its obligations under its Guarantee or the Indenture otherwise than in accordance with the terms of this Indenture; or
     (9) impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on or with respect to any Security or with respect to the conversion of any Security.
     (b) Without limiting the provisions of Section 10.02(a) hereof, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then outstanding may, on behalf of all the Holders of all Securities, (i) waive compliance by the Company with the restrictive provisions of this Indenture, and (ii) waive any past Default or Event of Default under this Indenture and its consequences, except an uncured failure to pay when due the principal amount, accrued and unpaid interest, or the Fundamental Change Purchase Price, if any and as applicable, or to deliver amounts due upon conversion, with respect to the Securities, or in respect of any provision which under this Indenture cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each outstanding Security affected.
 
     (c) Upon delivery to the Trustee of a Company Request, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence of the consent of Holders as aforesaid, if required, the Trustee shall, subject to Section 10.03, join with the Company and each applicable Guarantor in the execution of such supplemental indenture.
     (d) It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section 10.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
     Section 10.03. .
Execution of Supplemental Indentures and Agreements
     In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture, agreement, instrument or waiver permitted by this Article 10 or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, in addition to the documents required by Section 12.04, and (subject to Section 8.01 and Section 8.03(a) hereof) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel and an Officer's Certificate each stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture, agreement or instrument, or acceptance of any such additional trust, is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture, agreement or instrument, or accept any such additional trusts, which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
     Section 10.04. .
Effect of Supplemental Indentures
     Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article 10, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
     Section 10.05. .
Conformity with Trust Indenture Act
     Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article 10 shall conform to the requirements of the TIA as then in effect.
     Section 10.06. .
Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures
     Securities authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article 10 may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Board of Directors, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and each applicable Guarantor and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities.
     Section 10.07. .
Notice of Supplemental Indentures
     Promptly after the execution by the Company, any applicable Guarantor and the Trustee of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of Section 10.02, the Company shall give notice thereof to the Holders of each Outstanding Security affected, in the manner provided for in Section 11.02, setting forth in general terms the substance of such supplemental indenture. Any failure of the Company to mail such notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such supplemental indenture.
 
     Section 11.01.
Guarantees.
     (a) Each Guarantor, hereby jointly and severally, absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees the Securities and obligations of the Company hereunder and thereunder, and guarantees to each Holder of a Security authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, and to the Trustee on behalf of such Holder, that (i) the principal of and interest on the Securities will be paid in full when due, whether at the Final Maturity Date or a Fundamental Change Purchase Date, by acceleration or otherwise (including, without limitation, the amount that would become due but for the operation of any automatic stay provision of any Bankruptcy Law), together with interest on the overdue principal, if any, and interest on any overdue interest, to the extent lawful, and all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be paid in full or performed or observed, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and (ii) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Securities or of any such other obligations, the same will be paid in full when due or performed or observed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at the Final Maturity Date or a Fundamental Change Purchase Date, by acceleration or otherwise, subject, however, in the case of clauses (i) and (ii) above, to the limitations set forth in Section 11.03 hereof.
     Each Guarantor hereby agrees that its obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Securities or this Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of Securities with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, any release of any other Guarantor, the recovery of any judgment against the Company, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a Guarantor.
     (b) Each Guarantor hereby waives (to the extent permitted by law) the benefits of diligence, presentment, demand for payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company or any other Person, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever and covenants that the Guarantee of such Guarantor shall not be discharged as to Securities except by complete performance of the obligations contained therein, this Indenture and such Guarantee. Each Guarantor acknowledges that the Guarantee is a guarantee of payment and not of collection. Each of the Guarantors hereby agrees that, in the event of a default in payment of principal or interest on such Security, whether at the Final Maturity Date or a Fundamental Change Purchase Date, by acceleration or otherwise, legal proceedings may be instituted by the Trustee on behalf of, or by, the Holder of such Security, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Indenture, directly against each of the Guarantors to enforce such Guarantor's Guarantee without first proceeding against the Company or any other Guarantor. Each Guarantor agrees that if, after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Trustee or any of the Holders are prevented by applicable law from exercising their respective rights to accelerate the maturity of the Securities, to collect interest on the Securities, or to enforce or exercise any other right or remedy with respect to the Securities, such Guarantor will pay to the Trustee for the account of the Holders, upon demand therefor, the amount that would otherwise have been due
 
and payable had such rights and remedies been permitted to be exercised by the Trustee or any of the Holders.
     (c) If any Holder or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Company or any Guarantor, or any custodian, trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to either the Company or any Guarantor , any amount paid by any of them to the Trustee or such Holder, the Guarantee of each of the Guarantors, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect. Each Guarantor further agrees that, as between each Guarantor, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand, (x) subject to this Article 11, the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article 7 hereof for the purposes of the Guarantee of such Guarantor, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and (y) in the event of any acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article 7 hereof, such obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by each Guarantor for the purpose of the Guarantee of such Guarantor.
     (d) Each Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect and continue to be effective should any petition be filed by or against the Company for liquidation or reorganization, should the Company become insolvent or make an assignment for the benefit of creditors or should a receiver or trustee be appointed for all or any significant part of the Company's assets, and shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment and performance of the Securities are, pursuant to applicable law, rescinded or reduced in amount, or must otherwise be restored or returned by any obligee on the Securities, whether as a "voidable preference," "fraudulent transfer" or otherwise, all as though such payment or performance had not been made. In the event that any payment, or any part thereof, is rescinded, reduced, restored or returned, the Securities shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be reinstated and deemed reduced only by such amount paid and not so rescinded, reduced, restored or returned.
     (e) To evidence its Guarantee, each Guarantor hereby agrees that a Notation of Guarantee substantially in the form attached as Exhibit B hereto will be endorsed by an Officer of such Guarantor on each Security authenticated and delivered to the Trustee and that this Indenture or a supplemental indenture to this Indenture in substantially the form of Exhibit C hereto will be executed on behalf of such Guarantor by one of its Officers. Each Guarantor hereby agrees that its Guarantee will remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any failure to endorse on each Security a Notation of Guarantee. The delivery of any Security by the Trustee, after the authentication thereof hereunder, will be deemed to constitute due delivery of the Notation of Guarantee set forth in this Indenture by the Guarantors.
     Section 11.02.
Severability.
     In case any provision of any Guarantee shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality, and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
 
     Section 11.03.
Limitation of Liability.
     Each Guarantor and by its acceptance hereof each Holder confirms that it is the intention of all such parties that the Guarantee by each such Guarantor pursuant to its Guarantee not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of the Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar federal or state law or the provisions of its local law relating to fraudulent transfer or conveyance. To effectuate the foregoing intention, the Holders and each such Guarantor hereby irrevocably agree that the obligations of such Guarantor under its Guarantee shall be limited to the maximum amount that will not, after giving effect to all other contingent and fixed liabilities of such Guarantor and after giving effect to any collections from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under its Guarantee or pursuant to this Article 11, result in the obligations of such Guarantor under its Guarantee constituting such fraudulent transfer or conveyance.
     Section 11.04.
Contribution.
     In order to provide for just and equitable contribution among the Guarantors, the Guarantors agree, inter se, that in the event any payment or distribution is made by any Guarantor under a Guarantee, such Guarantor will be entitled to a contribution from any other Guarantor in a pro rata amount based on the net assets of each Guarantor determined in accordance with GAAP.
     Section 11.05.
Subrogation.
     Each Guarantor shall be subrogated to all rights of Holders against the Company in respect of any amounts paid by any Guarantor pursuant to the provisions of Section 11.01; , , that if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, no Guarantor shall be entitled to enforce or receive any payments arising out of, or based upon, such right of subrogation until all amounts then due and payable by the Company under this Indenture or the Securities shall have been paid in full.
provided
however
     Section 11.06.
Reinstatement.
     Each Guarantor hereby agrees (and each Person who becomes a Guarantor shall agree) that the Guarantee provided for in Section 11.01 shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time, payment, or any part thereof, of any obligations or interest thereon is rescinded or must otherwise be restored by a Holder to the Company upon the bankruptcy or insolvency of the Company or any Guarantor.
     Section 11.07.
Release of a Guarantor.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, each Guarantee by a Guarantor of the Securities shall provide by its terms that it shall be automatically and unconditionally released and discharged upon (i) any sale, exchange or transfer, to any Person not an Affiliate of the Company, of all of the Company's Capital Stock in, or all or substantially all the assets of, such Guarantor, which transaction is in compliance with the terms of this Indenture and pursuant to which transaction such Guarantor is released from all guarantees, if any, by it of other Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, (ii) such Subsidiary ceasing to be a guarantor of the 5.750% Notes and of the 6.375% Notes (other than by reason of a payment under a guarantee by any Subsidiary) or (iii) payment in full of all principal and interest on the Securities.
 
     Section 11.08.
Benefits Acknowledged.
     Each Guarantor acknowledges that it will receive direct and indirect benefits from the financing arrangements contemplated by this Indenture and that its respective Guarantee and waiver pursuant to its respective Guarantee is knowingly made in contemplation of such benefits.
     Section 12.01. .
Conflict with Trust Indenture Act
     If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with any provision of the TIA or another provision which is required or deemed to be included in this Indenture by any of the provisions of the TIA, the provision or requirement of the TIA shall control. If any provision of this Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the TIA that may be so modified or excluded, the latter provision shall be deemed to apply to this Indenture as so modified or to be excluded, as the case may be.
     Section 12.02. .
Notices
     Any demand, authorization notice, request, consent or communication shall be given in writing and mailed by first-class mail, postage prepaid, or delivered by recognized overnight courier addressed as follows or transmitted by facsimile transmission (confirmed by delivery in person or mail by first-class mail, postage prepaid, or by guaranteed overnight courier) to the following facsimile numbers:
If to the Company, to:
Mylan Laboratories Inc. 1500 Corporate Drive Canonsburg, PA 15317 Attention: Kristin Kolesar, Corporate Counsel Facsimile No.: (724) 514-1871
or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company, with a copy to:
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP 4 Times Square New York, New York 10036 Attention: Stacy J. Kanter, Esq. Facsimile No.: (212) 735-3000
if to the Trustee, to:
THE BANK OF NEW YORK 101 Barclay Street, 8W New York, New York 10286 Attention: Corporate Trust Division  Corporate Finance Unit Facsimile No.: (212) 815-5707
 
or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Holders or the Company or any other obligor on the Securities by the Trustee.
     Such notices or communications shall be effective only when actually received.
     The Company or the Trustee by notice to the other may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
     Where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, or delivered by recognized overnight courier, to each Holder affected by such event, at its address as it appears in the register kept by the Primary Registrar, not later than the latest date, and not earlier than the earliest date, prescribed for the giving of such notice or by any other manner deemed acceptable to the Trustee. In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders. Any notice when mailed to a Holder in the aforesaid manner shall be conclusively deemed to have been received by such Holder whether or not actually received by such Holder. Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
     In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause, it shall be impracticable to mail notice of any event as required by any provision of this Indenture, then any method of giving such notice as shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee shall be deemed to be a sufficient giving of such notice.
     If the Company mails any notice to a Holder of a Security, it shall mail a copy to the Trustee and each Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent.
     Section 12.03. .
Disclosure of Names and Addresses of Holders
     Holders may communicate pursuant to TIA Section 312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Securities, and the Trustee shall comply with TIA Section 312(b). The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar and any other Person shall have the protection of TIA 312(c). Further, every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee or any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of the disclosure of any information as to the names and addresses of the Holders in accordance with TIA Section 312, regardless of the source from which such information was derived, and that the Trustee shall not be held accountable by reason of mailing any material pursuant to a request made under TIA Section 312.
     Section 12.04. .
Compliance Certificates and Opinions
     (a) Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture and as may be requested by the Trustee, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with, and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent, if any, have been complied with, except that, in the case of any such application or request as to
 
which the furnishing of such certificates or opinions is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture relating to such particular application or request, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.
     (b) Every certificate or Opinion of Counsel with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include:
     (1) a statement that the Person signing such certificate or opinion has read and understands such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto;
     (2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
     (3) a statement that, in the opinion of such Person, such Person has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such Person to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
     (4) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of such Person, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
     Section 12.05. .
Acts of Holders
     (a) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section 12.05.
     (b) The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the register maintained by the Primary Registrar.
     (c) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act by the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof, in respect of anything done, suffered or omitted to be done by the Trustee, any Paying Agent or Conversion Agent, or the Company or any other obligor of the Securities in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
     (d) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying
 
that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
     (e) If the Company shall solicit from the Holders any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, the Company may, at its option, by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, fix in advance a record date for the determination of such Holders entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, but the Company shall have no obligation to do so. Notwithstanding TIA Section 316(c), any such record date shall be the record date specified in or pursuant to such Board Resolution, which shall be a date not more than 30 days prior to the first solicitation of Holders generally in connection therewith and no later than the date such first solicitation is completed.
     (f) If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act may be given before or after such record date, but only the Holders of record at the close of business on such record date shall be deemed to be Holders for purposes of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of Securities then Outstanding have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, and for this purpose the Securities then Outstanding shall be computed as of such record date; provided that no such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act by the Holders on such record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than six months after such record date.
     (g) For purposes of this Indenture, any action by the Holders which may be taken in writing may be taken by electronic means or as otherwise reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
     Section 12.06. .
Benefits of Indenture
     Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities or the Guarantees, express or implied, shall give to any Person (other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder, any Paying Agent and the Holders) any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
     Section 12.07. .
Legal Holidays
     In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Fundamental Change Purchase Date or Final Maturity Date of any Security shall not be a Business Day, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of the Securities) payment of interest or principal need not be made on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on such Interest Payment Date, Fundamental Change Purchase Date or Final Maturity Date, and no interest shall accrue with respect to such payment for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Fundamental Change Purchase Date or Final Maturity Date, as the case may be, to the next succeeding Business Day.
 
     Section 12.08. .
Governing Law; Waiver of Trial by Jury
     THIS INDENTURE, THE SECURITIES AND THE GUARANTEES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
     EACH PARTY HERETO, AND EACH HOLDER OF A SECURITY BY ITS ACCEPTANCE THEREOF, HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS INDENTURE.
     Section 12.09. .
No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements
     This Indenture may not be used to interpret another indenture, loan or debt agreement of the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company. Any such indenture, loan or debt agreement may not be used to interpret this Indenture.
     Section 12.10. .
No Personal Liability of Directors, Officers, Employees and Stockholders
     No director, officer, employee, stockholder, incorporator or agent of the Company or any Guarantor, as such, will have any liability for any obligations of the Company or such Guarantor under the Securities, the Guarantees, the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of the Securities by accepting a Security waives and releases all such liability.
     Section 12.11. .
Successors and Assigns
     All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company and the Guarantors shall bind their respective successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
     Section 12.12. .
Multiple Counterparts
     The parties may sign multiple counterparts of this Indenture. Each signed counterpart shall be deemed an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
     Section 12.13. .
Separability Clause
     In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities or Guarantees shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
     Section 12.14. .
Schedules and Exhibits
     All schedules and exhibits attached hereto are by this reference made a part hereof with the same effect as if herein set forth in full.
     Section 12.15. .
Effect of Headings and Table of Contents
     The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
 
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
Exhibit A
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE AND, UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR SECURITIES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY.
1
     Mylan Laboratories Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation, promises to pay to or registered assigns the principal amount of dollars ($[ ]) on March 15, 2012.
                    
                    
                    
                    
                     
     This Security shall bear interest as specified on the other side of this Security. This Security is convertible as specified on the other side of this Security.
     Additional provisions of this Security are set forth on the other side of this Security.
Dated:
                    
                    
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
 
Dated:
Trustee's Certificate of Authentication:
This is one of the Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Trustee
By:      Authorized Signatory
                    
                    
                    
 
     
1. Interest
     Mylan Laboratories Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (the "Company", which term shall include any successor company under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Security at the rate of 1.25% per annum. The Company shall pay interest semiannually on March 15 and September 15 of each year (each an "Interest Payment Date"), commencing September 15, 2007. Interest payable on any Interest Payment Date shall include interest accrued from and including the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date (or if none, from and including March 7, 2007) to but excluding the relevant Interest Payment Date. Cash interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months. Any payment required to be made on a day that is not a Business Day shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on such day and without any interest in respect of the delay. The Company shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, pay interest in immediately available funds on overdue principal and interest at the rate of 1.25% per annum, compounded semiannually, which interest shall accrue from the date such overdue amount was originally due to the day preceding the date payment of such amount, including interest thereon, has been made or duly provided for.
     Any reference herein to interest accrued or payable as of any date shall include any Special Interest that may be payable in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.02 of the Indenture.
     
2. Method of Payment
     The Company shall pay interest on this Security (except defaulted interest) to the Person who is the Holder of this Security at the close of business on March 1 or September 1, as the case may be (each, a "Regular Record Date") next preceding the related Interest Payment Date. The Holder must surrender this Security to a Paying Agent to collect payment of principal. The Company will pay principal and interest in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
     
3. Paying Agent, Registrar and Conversion Agent
     Initially, The Bank of New York (the "Trustee", which term shall include any successor trustee under the Indenture hereinafter referred to) will act as Paying Agent, Registrar and Conversion Agent. The Company may change any Paying Agent, Registrar or Conversion Agent without notice to the Holders. The Company or any of its Affiliates may, subject to certain limitations set forth in the Indenture, act as Paying Agent.
     
4. Indenture
     This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of Securities of the Company designated as its 1.25% Senior Convertible Notes Due 2012 (the "Securities"), issued under an Indenture, dated as of March 7, 2007 (together with any supplemental indentures thereto, the "Indenture"), among the Company, the Guarantors named therein and the Trustee. The terms of this Security include those stated in the Indenture and those required by or made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "TIA"), as in effect on the date of the Indenture. This Security is subject to
 
all such terms, and the Holder of this Security is referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of them. The Securities are limited to $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount. The Indenture does not limit other debt of the Company, secured or unsecured.
     Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Indenture.
     
5. Purchase of Securities at Option of Holder Upon a Fundamental Change
     Upon a Fundamental Change, at the option of the Holder and subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall become obligated to purchase for cash all or any part specified by the Holder (so long as the principal amount of such part is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000) of the Securities held by such Holder on the date specified by the Company in accordance with the provisions of Article 3 of the Indenture. The purchase price of any Securities so purchased shall equal 100% of the principal amount thereof together with accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the Fundamental Change Purchase Date. If the Fundamental Change Purchase Date falls on a day that is after the Regular Record Date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date, interest, accrued and unpaid hereon to, but not including, the applicable Fundamental Change Purchase Date, will be paid to the Holder in whose name such Security is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date immediately preceding the applicable Fundamental Change Purchase Date.
     
6. Conversion
     Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of the Indenture and upon the occurrence of the events specified in the Indenture, the Holder may surrender for conversion all or any portion of this Security that is in an integral multiple of $1,000. Upon conversion, the Holder shall be entitled to receive the consideration specified in the Indenture. No fractional share of Common Stock shall be issued upon conversion of a Security. Instead, the Company shall pay a cash adjustment as provided in the Indenture. The initial Conversion Rate of the Securities shall be 44.5931 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of Securities, subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of Article 4 of the Indenture. If a Holder converts all or any portion of this Security in connection with the occurrence of certain Fundamental Change transactions, the Conversion Rate shall be increased in the manner and to the extent described in Section 4.01(i) of the Indenture.
     Securities surrendered for conversion (in whole or in part) during the period from the close of business on any Regular Record Date to the opening of business on the next succeeding Interest Payment Date shall be accompanied by payment by the Holders of such Securities in funds to the Conversion Agent acceptable to the Company of an amount equal to the interest payable on such corresponding Interest Payment Date; that no such payment need be made: (1) in connection with a conversion following the Regular Record Date preceding the Final Maturity Date; (2) if the Company has specified a Fundamental Change Purchase Date that is after a Regular Record Date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date; or (3) to the extent of any overdue interest, if any overdue interest exists at the time of conversion with respect to such Security.
provided
     A Security in respect of which a Holder has submitted a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice may be converted only if such Holder validly withdraws such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
 
     
7. Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
     The Securities are in registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 principal amount and integral multiples of $1,000 principal amount. A Holder may register the transfer of or exchange Securities in accordance with the Indenture. The Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any taxes or other governmental charges that may be imposed in relation thereto by law or permitted by the Indenture.
     
8. Persons Deemed Owners
     The Holder of a Security may be treated as the owner of it for all purposes.
     
9. Unclaimed Money
     If money for the payment of principal or interest remains unclaimed for two years, the Trustee and any Paying Agent will pay the money back to the Company, subject to the provisions of the Indenture. After that, Holders entitled to money must look to the Company for payment as general creditors.
     
10. Amendment, Supplement and Waiver
     Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture or the Securities may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then outstanding, and an existing Default or Event of Default and its consequence or compliance with any provision of the Indenture or the Securities may be waived subject to certain exceptions with the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then Outstanding. Without the consent of or notice to any Holder, the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture or the Securities to, among other things, (x) cure any ambiguity, omission, mistake, defect or inconsistency or (y) make any other change that does not adversely affect the interests of the Holders in any material respect.
     
11. Successor Entity
     When a successor Person assumes all the obligations of its predecessor under the Securities and the Indenture in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the predecessor Person (except in certain circumstances specified in the Indenture) shall be released from those obligations.
     
12. Defaults and Remedies
     An Event of Default shall occur upon the occurrence of any of the events specified in Section 7.01(a) of the Indenture. Subject to the provisions of the penultimate paragraph of Section 7.02(c) of the Indenture, if an Event of Default shall occur and be continuing with respect to the Securities (other than an Event of Default specified in clause (9) or (10) of Section 7.01(a) of the Indenture), the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then Outstanding may, and the Trustee at the request of such Holders shall, declare all unpaid principal of and accrued interest on all Securities to be due and payable, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by the Holders of the Securities). Upon any such declaration, such principal and interest shall become due and payable immediately. If an Event of Default specified in clauses (9) or (10) of Section 7.01(a) of the Indenture occurs and is continuing, then all the Securities shall ipso facto become and be due and payable immediately in an amount equal to the principal amount of the Securities, together with accrued and
 
unpaid interest, if any, to the date the Securities become due and payable, without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder.
     The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities Outstanding, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul an acceleration and its consequences if: (a) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay (1) all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee under the Indenture and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, (2) all overdue interest on all Outstanding Securities, (3) the principal of any Outstanding Securities which have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and interest thereon at the rate borne by the Securities, and (4) to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest upon overdue interest at the rate borne by the Securities; (b) the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction; and (c) all Defaults and Events of Default, other than the non-payment of principal of and interest on the Securities which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
     Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Securities except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may require indemnity satisfactory to it before it enforces the Indenture or the Securities. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then outstanding may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may, in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture, withhold from Holders notice of any continuing Default (except a Default in payment of principal or interest or to deliver amounts owing upon conversion) if and so long as it determines that withholding notice is in their interests. The Company is required to file periodic certificates with the Trustee as to the Company's compliance with the Indenture and knowledge or status of any Default.
     
13. Trustee Dealings With the Company
     The Bank of New York, the initial Trustee under the Indenture, or any of its Affiliates, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from and perform services for the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, and may otherwise deal with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, as if it were not the Trustee.
     
14. No Recourse Against Others
     No director, officer, employee, stockholder, incorporator or agent of the Company, as such, will have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities, the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of the Securities by accepting a Security waives and releases all such liability.
     
15. Authentication
     This Security shall not be valid until the Trustee or an authenticating agent manually signs the certificate of authentication on the other side of this Security.
     
16. Abbreviations and Definitions
     Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of the Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian) and UGMA (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
 
     All terms defined in the Indenture and used in this Security but not specifically defined herein are defined in the Indenture and are used herein as so defined.
     
17. Guarantees; Reference to Indenture.
     This Security will be entitled to the benefits of the Guarantees made for the benefit of the Holders. Reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and obligations thereunder of the Guarantors, the Trustee and the Holders.
     
18. Indenture to Control; Governing Law
     In the case of any conflict between the provisions of this Security and the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall control. This Security and the Indenture shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
     The Company will furnish to any Holder, upon written request and without charge, a copy of the Indenture. Requests may be made to: Mylan Laboratories Inc., 1500 Corporate Drive, Canonsburg, Pennsylvania 15317, Attention: Kristin Kolesar, Corporate Counsel, Facsimile No. (724) 514-1871, Telephone No. (724) 514-1871.
 
     To assign this Security, fill in the form below:
I or we assign and transfer this Security to
and irrevocably appoint
agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him or her.
*Signature guaranteed by:
By:
                    
                    
                    
 
 
 
     To convert this Security into Common Stock of the Company, check the box:
o
To convert only part of this Security, state the principal amount to be converted (must be $1,000 or a integral multiple of $1,000): $___.
     If you want the stock certificate made out in another person's name, fill in the form below:
*Signature guaranteed by:
By:
                    
                    
                    
 
 
To: Mylan Laboratories Inc.
     The undersigned registered owner of this Security hereby acknowledges receipt of a notice from Mylan Laboratories Inc. (the "Company") as to the occurrence of a Fundamental Change with respect to the Company and requests and instructs the Company to purchase the entire principal amount of this Security, or the portion thereof (which is $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) below designated, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture referred to in this Security at the Fundamental Change Purchase Price, together with accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, such date, to the registered Holder hereof.
 
 
     The following exchanges, purchases or conversions of a part of this Global Security have been made:
 
Exhibit B
     Each of the undersigned (collectively, the "Guarantors") have unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally (such guarantee by each Guarantor being referred to herein as the "Guarantee") (i) the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on the Securities when they become due, whether at the Final Maturity Date, a Fundamental Change Purchase Date, by acceleration or otherwise, the due and punctual payment of interest on the overdue principal and interest, if any, on the Securities, to the extent lawful, and the due and punctual performance and observance of all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee all in accordance with the terms set forth in Article 11 of the Indenture and (ii) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Securities or any of such other obligations, that the same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise.
     No past, present or future shareholder, officer, director, employee or incorporator, as such, of any of the Guarantors shall have any liability under the Guarantee by reason of such person's status as stockholder, officer, director, employee or incorporator. Each Holder of a Security by accepting a Security waives and releases all such liability. This waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of the Guarantees.
     Each Holder of a Security by accepting such Security agrees that any Guarantor named below shall have no further liability with respect to its Guarantee if such Guarantor otherwise ceases to be liable in respect of its Guarantee in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
     The Guarantee shall not be valid or obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication on the Securities upon which the Guarantee is noted shall have been executed by the Trustee under the Indenture by the manual signature of one of its authorized signatories.
     Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
 
 
Exhibit C
     SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE (this "Supplemental Indenture"), dated as of , 200___, among (the "Guaranteeing Subsidiary"), a corporation, the Company, the other Guarantors (as defined in the Indenture referred to herein) and The Bank of New York, as trustee under the Indenture referred to herein (the "Trustee").
                    
                    
                    
     WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an indenture (the "Indenture"), dated as of March 7, 2007, providing for the issuance of 1.25% Senior Convertible Notes due 2012 (the "Notes");
     WHEREAS, the Indenture provides that under the circumstances specified therein that the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall fully and unconditionally guarantee the Company's obligations under the Notes and the Indenture in accordance with the provisions set forth in Article 11 of the Indenture; and
     WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of Section 10.01 of the Indenture, the parties hereto are authorized to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Guaranteeing Subsidiary, the Company and the other Guarantors and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes as follows:
     1. CAPITALIZED TERMS. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
     2. AGREEMENT TO GUARANTEE. The Guaranteeing Subsidiary hereby provides a Guarantee in respect of the Securities on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Guarantee and in the Indenture including but not limited to Article 11 thereof.
     3. NO RECOURSE AGAINST OTHERS. No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator, stockholder or agent of the Guaranteeing Subsidiary, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company or any Guaranteeing Subsidiary under the Notes, any Guarantees, the Indenture or this Supplemental Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of the Notes or any Guarantee by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes and this Guarantee.
     4. NEW YORK LAW TO GOVERN. THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE WITHIN GUARANTEE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
     5. COUNTERPARTS. The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
 
     6. EFFECT OF HEADINGS. The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
     7. THE TRUSTEE. The Trustee makes no representations as to, and shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of, this Supplemental Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, or the within Guarantee all of which recitals are made solely by the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Company.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the date first above written.
Dated as of , 20__
                    
 

 
Exhibit 4.2
Confirmation of OTC Convertible Note Hedge
Dear Sir / Madam:
     The purpose of this letter agreement (this "") is to confirm the terms and conditions of the above-referenced transaction entered into among Counterparty, MLI and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (the "" or "") on the Trade Date specified below (the ""). This Confirmation constitutes a "Confirmation" as referred to in the Agreement specified below.
Confirmation
Agent
MLPFS
Transaction
     The definitions and provisions contained in the 2000 ISDA Definitions (the "") and the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the "" and, together with the Swap Definitions, the ""), in each case as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., are incorporated into this Confirmation. In the event of any inconsistency between the Swap Definitions and the Equity Definitions, the Equity Definitions will govern, and in the event of any inconsistency between the Definitions and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will govern. References herein to a "Transaction" shall be deemed to be references to a "Share Option Transaction" for purposes of the Equity Definitions and a "Swap Transaction" for the purposes of the Swap Definitions.
Swap Definitions
Equity Definitions
Definitions
     This Confirmation evidences a complete binding agreement between you and us as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation (notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein), shall be subject to, and form part of, an agreement in the 1992 form of the ISDA Master Agreement (Multicurrency Cross Border) (the "" or "") as if we had executed an agreement in such form (but without any Schedule and with elections specified in the "ISDA Master Agreement" Section of this Confirmation) on the Trade Date. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of that agreement and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will prevail for the purpose of this Transaction. The parties hereby agree that the Transaction evidenced by this Confirmation shall be the only Transaction subject to and governed by the Agreement.
Master Agreement
Agreement
     The parties acknowledge that this Confirmation is entered into on the date hereof with the understanding that the provisions of the Indenture (as defined below) that are referred to herein will conform to the descriptions thereof in the Prospectus Supplement dated March 1, 2007 and the related Prospectus dated February 20, 2007 (collectively, the "Offer Document") relating to the Reference Notes (as defined below). The parties agree that in the event of any inconsistency between the Indenture and Offer Document, the parties will amend this Confirmation in good faith to preserve the intent of the parties.
     The terms of the particular Transaction to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:
General Terms:
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Agreements, Representations and Covenants of Buyer, Etc.:
 
(i) such Relevant Date shall be the sole Exercise Date hereunder and Automatic Exercise shall be applicable;
(ii) the Settlement Method shall be Net Share Settlement and the provisions set forth above under "Net Share Settlement" shall apply (but without regard to subsection (ii) thereof, or any right of the Counterparty to elect to deliver cash in lieu of Remaining Shares pursuant to the Note Indenture, or any requirement of Counterparty to deliver an Exercise Notice) as if a Conversion Date had occurred, the Conversion Amount were the aggregate principal amount of the Reference Notes then outstanding, and the Remaining Shares were equal to (X) the excess, if any, of (a) the VWAP Price on the Relevant Date multiplied by the applicable Conversion Rate over (b) $1,000; divided by (Y) the VWAP Price on the Relevant Date; that, if the Shares have been converted into other securities or property in connection with an Extraordinary Event, Seller may deliver a number or amount of such other securities or property as a holder of the number of Shares that would otherwise be deliverable under this paragraph would be entitled to receive upon the consummation or closing of such Extraordinary Event. "" means, on any date, the per Share volume-weighted average price as displayed under the heading "Bloomberg VWAP" on Bloomberg page MYL.N <equity> VAP (or any successor thereto) in respect of the period from 9:45 a.m. to 3:45 p.m. (New York City time) on such date (or if such volume-weighted average price is unavailable, the market value of one Share (or, if applicable, the value per Share of the consideration paid or delivered to holders of Shares at the time of an Extraordinary Event) on such date, as determined by the Calculation Agent)[; provided that if the scheduled weekday closing time of the Exchange for any such date is later than 4:00 p.m. (without regard to after hours or any other trading outside of the regular trading session hours) the VWAP Price shall be calculated for such Valuation Date from 9:45 a.m. until 15 minutes prior to such later closing time of the Exchange];
provided
VWAP Price
(iii) the Seller shall deliver an additional number of Shares equal to the product of (X) the Applicable Portion, (Y) the number of Reference Notes each having principal value of $1,000 then outstanding and (Z)
 
the applicable number of Shares (the "") determined by reference to the table attached as Annex A hereto based on the date on which such Relevant Date occurs and the VWAP Price on such date;
Scheduled Shares
(iv) with respect to the determination of Scheduled Shares, if the actual VWAP Price is between two VWAP Price amounts in the table or the Relevant Date is between two Relevant Dates in the table, the Scheduled Shares shall be determined by a straight-line interpolation between the number of Scheduled Shares set forth for the next higher and next lower VWAP Price amounts and the two nearest Relevant Dates, as applicable, based on a 365-day year; and
(v) with respect to any adjustment to the terms of the Transaction, the Calculation Agent, shall correspondingly adjust the Scheduled Shares and/or the VWAP Prices (each as set forth in the table in Annex A hereto) as of any date of such adjustments; provided, for the avoidance of doubt, that any such adjustments shall be made consistently with the applicable provisions of this Confirmation and the Equity Definitions.
(vi) the Settlement Date shall be the date that falls one Settlement Cycle following the Relevant Date.
Amendment Event; Additional Termination Event:
The occurrence of the following shall be an Additional Termination Event for purposes of this Transaction:
 
Staggered Settlement:
If Seller determines reasonably and in good faith that the number of Shares required to be delivered to Buyer hereunder on any Settlement Date would exceed 8.0% of all outstanding Shares, then Seller may, by notice to Buyer on or prior to such Settlement Date (a ""), elect to deliver the Shares comprising the related Net Share Settlement Amount on two or more dates (each, a "") or at two or more times on the Nominal Settlement Date as follows:
Nominal Settlement Date
Staggered Settlement Date
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, solely in connection with a Staggered Settlement Date, Seller shall be entitled to deliver Shares to Buyer from time to time prior to the date on which Seller would be obligated to deliver them to Buyer pursuant to Net Share Settlement terms set forth above, and Buyer agrees to credit all such early deliveries against Seller's obligations hereunder in the direct order in which such obligations arise. No such early delivery of Shares will accelerate or otherwise affect any of Buyer's obligations to Seller hereunder.
Disposition of Hedge Shares:
Seller shall conduct its hedging activities in connection with the Transaction in a manner that it believes, based on its reasonable judgment, will not require Counterparty to register under the Securities Act or any state securities laws the Shares (the "") acquired by Seller for the purpose of hedging its obligations pursuant to the Transaction. In addition, Counterparty hereby agrees that if, in the reasonable judgment of Seller based on advice of counsel, the Hedge Shares cannot be sold in the U.S. public market by Seller without registration under the Securities Act, Counterparty shall, at its election: (i) in order to allow Seller to sell the Hedge Shares in a registered offering, use commercially reasonable efforts to make available to Seller an effective registration statement under the Securities Act to cover the resale of such Hedge Shares and (a) enter into an agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to Seller and Counterparty, substantially in the form of an underwriting agreement for a registered offering, (b) provide accountant's "comfort" letters in customary form for registered offerings of equity securities, (c) provide disclosure opinions of nationally recognized outside counsel to Counterparty reasonably acceptable to Seller, (d) provide other customary opinions, certificates and closing documents customary in form for registered offerings of equity securities and (e) afford Seller a reasonable opportunity to conduct a "due diligence" investigation with respect to Counterparty customary in scope for underwritten offerings of equity securities registered for resale; , that if Seller, in its sole reasonable discretion, is not satisfied with access to
Hedge Shares
provided, however
 
due diligence materials, the results of its due diligence investigation, or the procedures and documentation for the registered offering referred to above, then clause (ii) or (iii) of this Section shall apply at the election of Counterparty; (ii) in order to allow Seller to sell the Hedge Shares in a private placement, enter into a private placement agreement substantially similar to private placement purchase agreements customary for private placements of equity securities by a publicly reporting company (if Counterparty is a publicly reporting company at such time) to institutional purchasers, in form and substance satisfactory to Seller and Counterparty, including reasonable and customary representations, covenants, blue sky and other governmental filings and/or registrations, indemnities to Seller, due diligence rights (for Seller or any designated buyer of the Hedge Shares from Seller), opinions and certificates and such other documentation as is customary for private placements agreements, all reasonably acceptable to Seller (in which case, the Calculation Agent acting in a commercially reasonable manner shall make any adjustments to the terms of the Transaction that it determines are necessary to reflect an appropriate discount from the public market price of the Shares due to the lack of liquidity thereof); or (iii) purchase the Hedge Shares from Seller at the VWAP Price on such Exchange Business Days, and in the amounts, requested by Seller.
Repurchase Notices:
Counterparty shall, on any day on which Counterparty effects any repurchase of Shares, promptly give Seller a written notice of such repurchase (a "") on such day if following such repurchase, the Notice Percentage as determined on such day is (i) greater than 6% and (ii) greater by 0.5% than the Notice Percentage included in the immediately preceding Repurchase Notice (or, in the case of the first such Repurchase Notice, greater than the Notice Percentage as of the date hereof). In the event that Counterparty fails to provide Seller with a Repurchase Notice on the day and in the manner specified in this section, then Counterparty agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Seller, its affiliates and their respective directors, officers, employees, agents and controlling persons (Seller and each such person being an "") from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (or actions in respect thereof), joint or several, to which such Indemnified Party may become subject under applicable securities laws, including without limitation, Section 16 of the Exchange Act, relating to or arising out of such failure. If for any reason the foregoing indemnification is unavailable to any Indemnified Party or insufficient to hold harmless any Indemnified Party, then Counterparty shall contribute, to the maximum extent permitted by law, to the amount paid or payable by the Indemnified Party as a result of such loss, claim, damage or liability. In addition, Counterparty will reimburse any Indemnified Party for all reasonable and documented expenses (including reasonable counsel fees and expenses) as they are incurred (after notice to Counterparty) in connection with the investigation of, preparation for or defense or settlement of any pending or threatened claim or any action, suit or proceeding arising therefrom, whether or not such Indemnified Party is a party thereto and whether or not such claim, action, suit or proceeding is initiated or brought by or on behalf of Counterparty. This indemnity shall survive the completion of the Transaction contemplated by this Confirmation and any assignment and delegation of the Transaction made pursuant to this Confirmation or the Agreement shall inure to the benefit of any permitted assignee of Seller. Counterparty will not be liable under this Indemnity provision to the extent that any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense is found in a final judgment by a court to have resulted from MLI's gross negligence or willful misconduct. The "" as of any day is the fraction, expressed as a percentage, (i) the numerator of which is the product of (a) the Applicable Portion, (b) the number of outstanding Reference Notes and (c) the number of Shares per Reference Note equal to the Conversion Rate (as defined in the Note Indenture) and (ii) the denominator of which is the number of Shares outstanding on such day.
Repurchase Notice
Indemnified Party
Notice Percentage
Conversion Rate Adjustment Notices:
Counterparty shall provide to MLI written notice (such notice, a "Conversion Rate Adjustment Notice") prior to consummating or otherwise executing or engaging in any transaction or event (a "Conversion Rate Adjustment Event") that would lead to an increase in the Conversion Rate (as such term is defined in the Indenture), which Conversion Rate Adjustment Notice shall set forth the new, adjusted Conversion Rate after giving effect to such Conversion Rate Adjustment Event (the "New Conversion Rate"). Each Conversion Rate Adjustment Notice shall be delivered to MLI at or prior to the deadline contained in Section 4.09 of the Indenture for the related notices under the Indenture. In connection with the delivery of any Conversion Rate Adjustment Notice to MLI, (x)
 
Counterparty shall, concurrently with or prior to such delivery, publicly announce and disclose the Conversion Rate Adjustment Event or (y) Counterparty shall, concurrently with such delivery, represent and warrant that the information set forth in such Conversion Rate Adjustment Notice does not constitute material non-public information with respect to Counterparty or the Shares.
 
 
Matters Relating to Agent:
ISDA Master Agreement:
With respect to the Agreement, Seller and Counterparty each agree as follows:
"" means in relation to Seller and in relation to Counterparty for purposes of this Transaction: Not applicable.
Specified Entity
The provisions of "" as set forth in Section 5(a)(v) of the Agreement shall not apply to MLI or Counterparty.
Default under Specified Transaction
The "" provisions of of the Agreement will not apply to Seller and will not apply to Counterparty.
Cross Default
Section 5(a)(vi)
 
The "" provisions of of the Agreement will not apply to Seller and Counterparty.
Credit Event Upon Merger
Section 5(b)(iv)
The "" provision of of the Agreement will not apply to Seller or to Counterparty.
Automatic Early Termination
Section 6(a)
For the purpose of of the Agreement: (i) Loss shall apply; and (ii) the Second Method shall apply.
Payments on Early Termination.
Section 6(e)
"" means USD.
Termination Currency
Tax Representations.
For the purpose of and of the Agreement, each party agrees to deliver the following documents:
Delivery Requirements.
Sections 4(a)(i)
(ii)
(a) Tax forms, documents or certificates to be delivered are:
 
Counterparty hereby agrees to promptly deliver to Seller a copy of all notices and other communications required or permitted to be given to the holders of any Reference Notes pursuant to the terms of the Note Indenture on the dates so required or permitted in the Note Indenture and all other notices given and other communications made by Counterparty in respect of the Reference Notes to holders of any Reference Notes. Counterparty further covenants to Seller that it shall promptly notify Seller of each Conversion Date, Amendment Event (including in such notice a detailed description of any such amendment) and Repayment Event (identifying in such notice the nature of such Repayment Event and the principal amount at maturity of Reference Notes being paid).
Additional Notice Requirements.
For the purpose of of the Agreement:
Addresses for Notices.
Section 12(a)
Address for notices or communications to Seller for all purposes:
Additionally, a copy of all notices pursuant to , , and as well as any changes to Counterparty's address, telephone number or facsimile number should be sent to:
Sections 5
6
7
 
Address for notices or communications to Counterparty for all purposes:
For the purpose of Section 13(c) of the Agreement, Seller appoints as its Process Agent:
Process Agent.
For the purpose of of the Agreement: Neither Seller nor Counterparty is a Multibranch Party.
Multibranch Party.
Section 10(c)
The Calculation Agent is Seller. Upon the request of either party, the Calculation Agent (or, in the case of a determination made by a party (including a party acting as Hedging Party or Determining Party), such party) shall, no later than the 5 Business Day following such request, provide the parties with a statement showing, in reasonable detail, the computations (including any relevant quotations) by which it has determined any amount payable or deliverable under, or any adjustment to the terms of, this Transaction. All judgments, determinations and calculations hereunder by the Calculation Agent or by a party hereto shall be performed in good faith and in a commercially reasonable manner.
Calculation Agent.
th
Credit Support Document.
Seller: Guarantee of ML & Co. in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A.
Counterparty: Not Applicable.
Credit Support Provider.
With respect to Seller: ML & Co.
With respect to Counterparty: Not Applicable.
This Confirmation will be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
Each party waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any right it may have to a trial by jury in respect of any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Transaction. Each party (i) certifies that no representative, agent or attorney of the other party has represented, expressly or otherwise, that such other party would not, in the event of such a suit, action or proceeding, seek to enforce the foregoing waiver and (ii) acknowledges that it and the other party have been induced to enter into this Transaction, as applicable, by, among other things, the mutual waivers and certifications provided herein.
Waiver of Jury Trial.
The provisions of of the Agreement shall not be applicable to this Transaction.
Netting of Payments.
Section 2(c)
of the Agreement is hereby amended by the deletion of "and" at the end of ; the substitution of a semicolon for the period at the end of and the addition of , as follows:
Basic Representations.
Section 3(a)
Section 3(a)(iv)
Section 3(a)(v)
Sections 3(a)(vi)
 
Each party agrees and represents that it is an "eligible contract participant" as defined in Section 1a(12) of the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act, as amended (""), this Agreement and the Transaction thereunder are subject to individual negotiation by the parties and have not been executed or traded on a "trading facility" as defined in Section 1a(33) of the CEA, and it has entered into this Confirmation and this Transaction in connection with its business or a line of business (including financial intermediation), or the financing of its business.
Eligible Contract Participant; Line of Business.
CEA
Acknowledgements:
The definition of "Reference Market-Makers" in is hereby amended by adding in clause (a) after the word "credit" and before the word "and" the words "or to enter into transactions similar in nature to the Transaction."
Amendment of Definition of Reference Market-Makers.
Section 14
Each party consents to the recording of the telephone conversations of trading and marketing personnel of the parties and their Affiliates in connection with this Confirmation. To the extent that one party records telephone conversations (the "") and the other party does not (the ""), the Recording Party shall in the event of any dispute, make a complete and unedited copy of such party's tape of the entire day's conversations with the Non-Recording Party's personnel available to the Non-Recording Party. The Recording Party's tapes may be used by either party in any forum in which a dispute is sought to be resolved and the Recording Party will retain tapes for a consistent period of time in accordance with the Recording Party's policy unless one party notifies the other that a particular transaction is under review and warrants further retention.
Consent to Recording.
Recording Party
Non-Recording Party
Each party hereby acknowledges and agrees that Seller has authorized Counterparty to disclose this Transaction and any related hedging transaction between the parties if and to the extent that Counterparty reasonably determines (after consultation with Seller) that such disclosure is required by law or by the rules of the New York Stock Exchange or any securities exchange. Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective from the date of commencement of discussions concerning the Transaction, Counterparty and each of its employees, representatives, or other agents may disclose to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure of the Transaction and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are provided to Counterparty relating to such tax treatment and tax structure.
Disclosure.
If any term, provision, covenant or condition of this Confirmation, or the application thereof to any party or circumstance, shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part for any reason, the remaining terms, provisions, covenants, and conditions hereof shall continue in full force and effect as if this Confirmation had been executed with the invalid or unenforceable provision eliminated, so long as this Confirmation as so modified
Severability.
 
continues to express, without material change, the original intentions of the parties as to the subject matter of this Confirmation and the deletion of such portion of this Confirmation will not substantially impair the respective benefits or expectations of parties to this Agreement; , , that this severability provision shall not be applicable if any provision of , , or of the Agreement (or any definition or provision in to the extent that it relates to, or is used in or in connection with any such Section) shall be so held to be invalid or unenforceable.
provided
however
Section 2
5
6
13
Section 14
For purposes of of the Agreement, each party shall be deemed to be an Affected Party in connection with Illegality and any Tax Event.
Affected Parties.
Section 6(e)
 
Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing the copy of this Confirmation enclosed for that purpose and returning it to us.
Confirmed as of the date first above written:
MYLAN LABORATORIES INC.
Acknowledged and agreed as to matters to the Agent:
Solely in its capacity as Agent hereunder
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED,
 
EXHIBIT A
     FOR VALUE RECEIVED, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, MERRILL LYNCH & CO., INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware ("ML & Co."), hereby unconditionally guarantees to Mylan Laboratories Inc. (the "Company"), the due and punctual payment of any and all amounts payable by Merrill Lynch International, a company organized under the laws of England and Wales ("ML"), under the terms of the Confirmation of OTC Convertible Note Hedge between the Company and ML (ML as Seller), dated as of March 1, 2007 (the "Confirmation"), including, in case of default, interest on any amount due, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether on the scheduled payment dates, at maturity, upon declaration of termination or otherwise, according to the terms thereof. In case of the failure of ML punctually to make any such payment, ML & Co. hereby agrees to make such payment, or cause such payment to be made, promptly upon demand made by the Company to ML & Co.; provided, however that delay by the Company in giving such demand shall in no event affect ML & Co.'s obligations under this Guarantee. This Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect or shall be reinstated (as the case may be) if at any time any payment guaranteed hereunder, in whole or in part, is rescinded or must otherwise be returned by the Company upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of ML or otherwise, all as though such payment had not been made.
     ML & Co. hereby agrees that its obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Confirmation; the absence of any action to enforce the same; any waiver or consent by the Company concerning any provisions thereof; the rendering of any judgment against ML or any action to enforce the same; or any other circumstances that might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge of a guarantor or a defense of a guarantor. ML covenants that this guarantee will not be discharged except by complete payment of the amounts payable under the Confirmation. This Guarantee shall continue to be effective if ML merges or consolidates with or into another entity, loses its separate legal identity or ceases to exist.
     ML & Co. hereby waives diligence; presentment; protest; notice of protest, acceleration, and dishonor; filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of ML; all demands whatsoever, except as noted in the first paragraph hereof; and any right to require a proceeding first against ML.
     ML & Co. hereby certifies and warrants that this Guarantee constitutes the valid obligation of ML & Co. and complies with all applicable laws.
     This Guarantee shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
     This Guarantee may be terminated at any time by notice by ML & Co. to the Company given in accordance with the notice provisions of the Confirmation, effective upon receipt of such notice by the Company or such later date as may be specified in such notice; provided, however, that this Guarantee shall continue in full force and effect with respect to any obligation of ML under the Confirmation arising before or after such termination.
     This Guarantee becomes effective concurrent with the effectiveness of the Confirmation, according to its terms.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, ML & Co. has caused this Guarantee to be executed in its corporate name by its duly authorized representative.
 

 
Exhibit 4.3
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association London Branch P.O. Box 161 60 Victoria Embankment London EC4Y 0JP England
Confirmation of OTC Convertible Note Hedge
Dear Sir / Madam:
     The purpose of this letter agreement (this "") is to confirm the terms and conditions of the above-referenced transaction entered into between Counterparty and JPM on the Trade Date specified below (the ""). This Confirmation constitutes a "Confirmation" as referred to in the Agreement specified below.
Confirmation
Transaction
     The definitions and provisions contained in the 2000 ISDA Definitions (the "") and the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the "" and, together with the Swap Definitions, the ""), in each case as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., are incorporated into this Confirmation. In the event of any inconsistency between the Swap Definitions and the Equity Definitions, the Equity Definitions will govern, and in the event of any inconsistency between the Definitions and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will govern. References herein to a "Transaction" shall be deemed to be references to a "Share Option Transaction" for purposes of the Equity Definitions and a "Swap Transaction" for the purposes of the Swap Definitions.
Swap Definitions
Equity Definitions
Definitions
     This Confirmation evidences a complete binding agreement between you and us as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation (notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein), shall be subject to, and form part of, an agreement in the 1992 form of the ISDA Master Agreement (Multicurrency Cross Border) (the "" or "") as if we had executed an agreement in such form (but without any Schedule and with elections specified in the "ISDA Master Agreement" Section of this Confirmation) on the Trade Date. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of that agreement and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will prevail for the purpose of this Transaction. The parties hereby agree that the Transaction evidenced by this Confirmation shall be the only Transaction subject to and governed by the Agreement.
Master Agreement
Agreement
     The parties acknowledge that this Confirmation is entered into on the date hereof with the understanding that the provisions of the Indenture (as defined below) that are referred to herein will conform to the descriptions thereof in the Prospectus Supplement dated March 1, 2007 and the related Prospectus dated February 20, 2007 (collectively, the "Offer Document") relating to the Reference Notes (as defined below). The parties agree that in
 
the event of any inconsistency between the Indenture and Offer Document, the parties will amend this Confirmation in good faith to preserve the intent of the parties.
     The terms of the particular Transaction to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:
 
 
 
 
Additional Agreements, Representations and Covenants of Buyer, Etc.:
 
 
(ii) the Settlement Method shall be Net Share Settlement and the provisions set forth above under "Net Share Settlement" shall apply (but without regard to subsection (ii) thereof, or any right of the Counterparty to elect to deliver cash in lieu of Remaining Shares pursuant to the Note Indenture, or any requirement of Counterparty to deliver an Exercise Notice) as if a Conversion Date had occurred, the Conversion Amount were the aggregate principal amount of the Reference Notes then outstanding, and the Remaining Shares were equal to (X) the excess, if any, of (a) the VWAP Price on the Relevant Date multiplied by the applicable Conversion Rate over (b) $1,000; divided by (Y) the VWAP Price on the Relevant Date; that, if the Shares have been converted into other securities or property in connection with an Extraordinary Event, Seller may deliver a number or amount of such other securities or property as a holder of the number of Shares that would otherwise be deliverable under this paragraph would be entitled to receive upon the consummation or closing of such Extraordinary Event. "" means, on any date, the per Share volume-weighted average price as displayed under the heading "Bloomberg VWAP" on Bloomberg page MYL.N <equity> VAP (or any successor thereto) in respect of the period from 9:45 a.m. to 3:45 p.m. (New York City time) on such date (or if such volume-weighted average price is unavailable, the market value of one Share (or, if applicable, the value per Share of the consideration paid or delivered to holders of Shares at the time of an Extraordinary Event) on such date, as determined by the Calculation Agent)[; provided that if the scheduled weekday closing time of the Exchange for any such date is later than 4:00 p.m. (without regard to after hours or any other trading outside of the regular trading session hours) the VWAP Price shall be calculated for such Valuation Date from 9:45 a.m. until 15 minutes prior to such later closing time of the Exchange];
provided
VWAP Price
(iii) the Seller shall deliver an additional number of Shares equal to the product of (X) the Applicable Portion, (Y) the number of Reference Notes each having principal value of $1,000 then outstanding and (Z) the applicable number of Shares (the "") determined by reference to the table attached as Annex A hereto based on the date on which such Relevant Date occurs and the VWAP Price on such date;
Scheduled Shares
(iv) with respect to the determination of Scheduled Shares, if the actual VWAP Price is between two VWAP Price amounts in the table or the Relevant Date is between two Relevant Dates in the table, the Scheduled Shares shall be determined by a straight-line interpolation between the number of Scheduled Shares set forth for the next higher and next lower VWAP Price amounts and the two nearest Relevant Dates, as applicable, based on a 365-day year; and
(v) with respect to any adjustment to the terms of the Transaction, the Calculation Agent, shall correspondingly adjust the Scheduled Shares and/or the VWAP Prices (each as set forth in the table in Annex A hereto) as of any date of such adjustments; provided, for the avoidance of doubt, that any such adjustments shall be made consistently with the applicable provisions of this Confirmation and the Equity Definitions.
(vi) the Settlement Date shall be the date that falls one Settlement Cycle following the Relevant Date.
 
Amendment Event; Additional Termination Event:
The occurrence of the following shall be an Additional Termination Event for purposes of this Transaction:
Staggered Settlement:
If Seller determines reasonably and in good faith that the number of Shares required to be delivered to Buyer hereunder on any Settlement Date would exceed 8.0% of all outstanding Shares, then Seller may, by notice to Buyer on or prior to such Settlement Date (a ""), elect to deliver the Shares comprising the related Net Share Settlement Amount on two or more dates (each, a "") or at two or more times on the Nominal Settlement Date as follows:
Nominal Settlement Date
Staggered Settlement Date
 
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, solely in connection with a Staggered Settlement Date, Seller shall be entitled to deliver Shares to Buyer from time to time prior to the date on which Seller would be obligated to deliver them to Buyer pursuant to Net Share Settlement terms set forth above, and Buyer agrees to credit all such early deliveries against Seller's obligations hereunder in the direct order in which such obligations arise. No such early delivery of Shares will accelerate or otherwise affect any of Buyer's obligations to Seller hereunder.
Disposition of Hedge Shares:
Seller shall conduct its hedging activities in connection with the Transaction in a manner that it believes, based on its reasonable judgment, will not require Counterparty to register under the Securities Act or any state securities laws the Shares (the "") acquired by Seller for the purpose of hedging its obligations pursuant to the Transaction. In addition, Counterparty hereby agrees that if, in the reasonable judgment of Seller based on advice of counsel, the Hedge Shares cannot be sold in the U.S. public market by Seller without registration under the Securities Act, Counterparty shall, at its election: (i) in order to allow Seller to sell the Hedge Shares in a registered offering, use commercially reasonable efforts to make available to Seller an effective registration statement under the Securities Act to cover the resale of such Hedge Shares and (a) enter into an agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to Seller and Counterparty, substantially in the form of an underwriting agreement for a registered offering, (b) provide accountant's "comfort" letters in customary form for registered offerings of equity securities, (c) provide disclosure opinions of nationally recognized outside counsel to Counterparty reasonably acceptable to Seller, (d) provide other customary opinions, certificates and closing documents customary in form for registered offerings of equity securities and (e) afford Seller a reasonable opportunity to conduct a "due diligence" investigation with respect to Counterparty customary in scope for underwritten offerings of equity securities registered for resale; , that if Seller, in its sole reasonable discretion, is not satisfied with access to due diligence materials, the results of its due diligence investigation, or the procedures and documentation for the registered offering referred to above, then clause (ii) or (iii) of this Section shall apply at the election of Counterparty; (ii) in order to allow Seller to sell the Hedge Shares in a private placement, enter into a private placement agreement substantially similar to private placement purchase agreements customary for private placements of equity securities by a publicly reporting company (if Counterparty is a publicly reporting company at such time) to institutional purchasers, in form and substance satisfactory to Seller and Counterparty, including reasonable and customary representations, covenants, blue sky and other governmental filings and/or registrations, indemnities to Seller, due diligence rights (for Seller or any designated buyer of the Hedge Shares from Seller), opinions and certificates and such other documentation as is customary for private placements agreements, all reasonably acceptable to Seller (in which case, the Calculation Agent acting in a commercially reasonable manner shall make any adjustments to the terms of the Transaction that it determines are necessary to reflect an appropriate discount from the public market price of the Shares due to the lack of liquidity thereof); or (iii) purchase the Hedge Shares from Seller at the VWAP Price on such Exchange Business Days, and in the amounts, requested by Seller.
Hedge Shares
provided, however
Repurchase Notices:
Counterparty shall, on any day on which Counterparty effects any repurchase of Shares, promptly give Seller a written notice of such repurchase (a "") on such day if following such repurchase, the Notice Percentage as determined on such day is (i) greater than 6% and (ii) greater by 0.5% than the Notice Percentage included in the immediately preceding Repurchase Notice (or, in the case of the first such Repurchase Notice, greater than the Notice Percentage as of the date hereof). In the event that Counterparty fails to provide Seller with a Repurchase Notice on the day and in the manner specified in this section, then Counterparty agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Seller, its affiliates and their respective directors, officers, employees, agents and controlling persons (Seller and each such person being an "") from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (or actions in respect thereof), joint or several, to which such Indemnified Party may become
Repurchase Notice
Indemnified Party
 
subject under applicable securities laws, including without limitation, Section 16 of the Exchange Act, relating to or arising out of such failure. If for any reason the foregoing indemnification is unavailable to any Indemnified Party or insufficient to hold harmless any Indemnified Party, then Counterparty shall contribute, to the maximum extent permitted by law, to the amount paid or payable by the Indemnified Party as a result of such loss, claim, damage or liability. In addition, Counterparty will reimburse any Indemnified Party for all reasonable and documented expenses (including reasonable counsel fees and expenses) as they are incurred (after notice to Counterparty) in connection with the investigation of, preparation for or defense or settlement of any pending or threatened claim or any action, suit or proceeding arising therefrom, whether or not such Indemnified Party is a party thereto and whether or not such claim, action, suit or proceeding is initiated or brought by or on behalf of Counterparty. This indemnity shall survive the completion of the Transaction contemplated by this Confirmation and any assignment and delegation of the Transaction made pursuant to this Confirmation or the Agreement shall inure to the benefit of any permitted assignee of Seller. Counterparty will not be liable under this Indemnity provision to the extent that any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense is found in a final judgment by a court to have resulted from JPM's gross negligence or willful misconduct. The "" as of any day is the fraction, expressed as a percentage, (i) the numerator of which is the product of (a) the Applicable Portion, (b) the number of outstanding Reference Notes and (c) the number of Shares per Reference Note equal to the Conversion Rate (as defined in the Note Indenture) and (ii) the denominator of which is the number of Shares outstanding on such day.
Notice Percentage
Conversion Rate Adjustment Notices:
Counterparty shall provide to JPM written notice (such notice, a "Conversion Rate Adjustment Notice") prior to consummating or otherwise executing or engaging in any transaction or event (a "Conversion Rate Adjustment Event") that would lead to an increase in the Conversion Rate (as such term is defined in the Indenture), which Conversion Rate Adjustment Notice shall set forth the new, adjusted Conversion Rate after giving effect to such Conversion Rate Adjustment Event (the "New Conversion Rate"). Each Conversion Rate Adjustment Notice shall be delivered to JPM at or prior to the deadline contained in Section 4.09 of the Indenture for the related notices under the Indenture. In connection with the delivery of any Conversion Rate Adjustment Notice to JPM, (x) Counterparty shall, concurrently with or prior to such delivery, publicly announce and disclose the Conversion Rate Adjustment Event or (y) Counterparty shall, concurrently with such delivery, represent and warrant that the information set forth in such Conversion Rate Adjustment Notice does not constitute material non-public information with respect to Counterparty or the Shares.
 
 
Matters Relating to Agent:
Each party agrees and acknowledges that (i) J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., an affiliate of JPM (the "Agent" or "JPMSI"), has acted solely as agent and not as principal with respect to this Transaction and (ii) JPMSI has no obligation or liability, by way of guaranty, endorsement or otherwise, in any manner in respect of this Transaction (including, if applicable, in respect of the settlement thereof). Each party agrees it will look solely to the other party (or any guarantor in respect thereof) for performance of such other party's obligations under this Transaction.
ISDA Master Agreement:
With respect to the Agreement, Seller and Counterparty each agree as follows:
"" means in relation to Seller and in relation to Counterparty for purposes of this Transaction: Not applicable.
Specified Entity
The provisions of "" as set forth in Section 5(a)(v) of the Agreement shall not apply to JPM or Counterparty.
Default under Specified Transaction
 
The "" provisions of of the Agreement will not apply to Seller and will not apply to Counterparty.
Cross Default
Section 5(a)(vi)
The "" provisions of of the Agreement will not apply to Seller and Counterparty.
Credit Event Upon Merger
Section 5(b)(iv)
The "" provision of of the Agreement will not apply to Seller or to Counterparty.
Automatic Early Termination
Section 6(a)
For the purpose of of the Agreement: (i) Loss shall apply; and (ii) the Second Method shall apply.
Payments on Early Termination.
Section 6(e)
"" means USD.
Termination Currency
Tax Representations.
For the purpose of and of the Agreement, each party agrees to deliver the following documents:
Delivery Requirements.
Sections 4(a)(i)
(ii)
 
Counterparty hereby agrees to promptly deliver to Seller a copy of all notices and other communications required or permitted to be given to the holders of any Reference Notes pursuant to the terms of the Note Indenture on the dates so required or permitted in the Note Indenture and all other notices given and other communications made by Counterparty in respect of the Reference Notes to holders of any Reference Notes. Counterparty further covenants to Seller that it shall promptly notify Seller of each Conversion Date, Amendment Event (including in such notice a detailed description of any such amendment) and Repayment Event (identifying in such notice the nature of such Repayment Event and the principal amount at maturity of Reference Notes being paid).
Additional Notice Requirements.
For the purpose of of the Agreement:
Addresses for Notices.
Section 12(a)
Address for notices or communications to Seller for all purposes:
Address for notices or communications to Counterparty for all purposes:
For the purpose of Section 13(c) of the Agreement, neither party appoints a Process Agent.
Process Agent.
For the purpose of of the Agreement: Counterparty is not a Multibranch Party. The Office of JPM for the Transaction is: London
Multibranch Party.
Section 10(c)
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association London Branch P.O. Box 161 60 Victoria Embankment London EC4Y 0JP England
 
The Calculation Agent is Seller. Upon the request of either party, the Calculation Agent (or, in the case of a determination made by a party (including a party acting as Hedging Party or Determining Party), such party) shall, no later than the 5 Business Day following such request, provide the parties with a statement showing, in reasonable detail, the computations (including any relevant quotations) by which it has determined any amount payable or deliverable under, or any adjustment to the terms of, this Transaction. All judgments, determinations and calculations hereunder by the Calculation Agent or by a party hereto shall be performed in good faith and in a commercially reasonable manner.
Calculation Agent.
th
Credit Support Document.
Seller: Not Applicable.
Counterparty: Not Applicable.
Credit Support Provider.
With respect to Seller: Not Applicable.
With respect to Counterparty: Not Applicable.
This Confirmation will be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
Each party waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any right it may have to a trial by jury in respect of any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Transaction. Each party (i) certifies that no representative, agent or attorney of the other party has represented, expressly or otherwise, that such other party would not, in the event of such a suit, action or proceeding, seek to enforce the foregoing waiver and (ii) acknowledges that it and the other party have been induced to enter into this Transaction, as applicable, by, among other things, the mutual waivers and certifications provided herein.
Waiver of Jury Trial.
The provisions of of the Agreement shall not be applicable to this Transaction.
Netting of Payments.
Section 2(c)
of the Agreement is hereby amended by the deletion of "and" at the end of ; the substitution of a semicolon for the period at the end of and the addition of , as follows:
Basic Representations.
Section 3(a)
Section 3(a)(iv)
Section 3(a)(v)
Sections 3(a)(vi)
Each party agrees and represents that it is an "eligible contract participant" as defined in Section 1a(12) of the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act, as amended (""), this Agreement and the Transaction thereunder are subject to individual negotiation by the parties and have not been executed or traded on a "trading facility" as defined in Section 1a(33) of the CEA, and it has entered into this Confirmation and this Transaction in connection with its business or a line of business (including financial intermediation), or the financing of its business.
Eligible Contract Participant; Line of Business.
CEA
Acknowledgements:
 
The definition of "Reference Market-Makers" in is hereby amended by adding in clause (a) after the word "credit" and before the word "and" the words "or to enter into transactions similar in nature to the Transaction."
Amendment of Definition of Reference Market-Makers.
Section 14
Each party hereby acknowledges and agrees that Seller has authorized Counterparty to disclose this Transaction and any related hedging transaction between the parties if and to the extent that Counterparty reasonably determines (after consultation with Seller) that such disclosure is required by law or by the rules of the New York Stock Exchange or any securities exchange. Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective from the date of commencement of discussions concerning the Transaction, Counterparty and each of its employees, representatives, or other agents may disclose to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure of the Transaction and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are provided to Counterparty relating to such tax treatment and tax structure.
Disclosure.
If any term, provision, covenant or condition of this Confirmation, or the application thereof to any party or circumstance, shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part for any reason, the remaining terms, provisions, covenants, and conditions hereof shall continue in full force and effect as if this Confirmation had been executed with the invalid or unenforceable provision eliminated, so long as this Confirmation as so modified continues to express, without material change, the original intentions of the parties as to the subject matter of this Confirmation and the deletion of such portion of this Confirmation will not substantially impair the respective benefits or expectations of parties to this Agreement; , , that this severability provision shall not be applicable if any provision of , , or of the Agreement (or any definition or provision in to the extent that it relates to, or is used in or in connection with any such Section) shall be so held to be invalid or unenforceable.
Severability.
provided
however
Section 2
5
6
13
Section 14
For purposes of of the Agreement, each party shall be deemed to be an Affected Party in connection with Illegality and any Tax Event.
Affected Parties.
Section 6(e)
 
Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing the copy of this Confirmation enclosed for that purpose and returning it to us.
Confirmed as of the date first above written:
MYLAN LABORATORIES INC.
 

 
Exhibit 4.4
Confirmation of OTC Warrant Transaction
Dear Sir / Madam:
     The purpose of this letter agreement (this "") is to confirm the terms and conditions of the above-referenced transaction entered into among Counterparty, MLI and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (the "" or "") on the Trade Date specified below (the ""). This Confirmation constitutes a "Confirmation" as referred to in the Agreement specified below.
Confirmation
Agent
MLPFS
Transaction
     The definitions and provisions contained in the 2000 ISDA Definitions (the "") and the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the "" and, together with the Swap Definitions, the ""), in each case as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., are incorporated into this Confirmation. In the event of any inconsistency between the Swap Definitions and the Equity Definitions, the Equity Definitions will govern, and in the event of any inconsistency between the Definitions and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will govern. References herein to a "Transaction" shall be deemed to be references to a "Share Option Transaction" for the purposes of the Equity Definitions and to a "Swap Transaction" for the purposes of the Swap Definitions. For purposes of this Transaction, "Warrant Style", "Warrant Type", "Number of Warrants" and "Warrant Entitlement" (each as defined below) shall be used herein as if such terms were referred to as "Option Style", "Option Type", "Number of Options" and "Option Entitlement", respectively, in the Definitions.
Swap Definitions
Equity Definitions
Definitions
     This Confirmation evidences a complete binding agreement between you and us as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation (notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein), shall be subject to, and form part of, an agreement in the 1992 form of the ISDA Master Agreement (Multicurrency Cross Border) (the "" or "") as if we had executed an agreement in such form (but without any Schedule and with elections specified in the "ISDA Master Agreement" Section of this Confirmation) on the Trade Date. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of that Agreement and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will prevail for the purpose of this Transaction. The parties hereby agree that the Transaction evidenced by this Confirmation shall be the only Transaction subject to and governed by the Agreement.
Master Agreement
Agreement
     The terms of the particular Transaction to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Agreements, Representations and Covenants of Counterparty, Etc.:
 
Matters Relating to Agent:
ISDA Master Agreement:
With respect to the Agreement, MLI and Counterparty each agree as follows:
"" means in relation to Seller and in relation to Counterparty for purposes of this Transaction: Not applicable.
Specified Entity
The provisions of "" set forth in Section 5(a)(v) of the Agreement shall not apply to MLI or Counterparty.
Default under Specified Transaction
The "" provisions of Section 5(a)(vi) of the Agreement shall not apply to MLI or Counterparty.
Cross Default
The "" provisions of Section 5(b)(iv) of the Agreement will not apply to MLI and Counterparty.
Credit Event Upon Merger
. If within the period commencing on the Trade Date and ending on the second anniversary of the Premium Payment Date, Buyer reasonably determines that it is advisable to terminate all or a portion of the Transaction so that Buyer's related hedging activities will comply with applicable securities laws, rules or regulations, (1) Buyer shall have the right to designate such event an Additional Termination Event and designate an Early Termination Date pursuant to Section 6(b) of the Agreement and (2) Seller shall be deemed the sole Affected Party and the Transaction (or terminated portion thereof) shall be deemed the sole Affected Transaction.
Additional Termination Event
The "" provision of of the Agreement will not apply to MLI or to Counterparty.
Automatic Early Termination
Section 6(a)
 
. For the purpose of of the Agreement: (i) Loss shall apply; and (ii) the Second Method shall apply.
Payments on Early Termination
Section 6(e)
"" means USD.
Termination Currency
Tax Representations.
For the purpose of and of the Agreement, each party agrees to deliver the following documents:
Delivery Requirements.
Sections 4(a)(i)
(ii)
 
For the purpose of of the Agreement:
Addresses for Notices:
Section 12(a)
Address for notices or communications to MLI for all purposes:
Address for notices or communications to Counterparty for all purposes:
: For the purpose of Section 13(c) of the Agreement, MLI appoints as its process agent:
Process Agent
. For the purpose of of the Agreement: Neither MLI nor Counterparty is a Multibranch Party.
Multibranch Party
Section 10(c)
The Calculation Agent is MLI. Upon the request of either party, the Calculation Agent (or, in the case of a determination made by a party (including a party acting as Determining Party or Hedging Party), such party) shall, no later than the 5 Business Day following such request, provide the parties with a statement showing, in reasonable detail, the computations (including any relevant quotations) by which it has determined any amount payable or deliverable under, or any adjustment to the terms of, this Transaction. All judgments, determinations and calculations hereunder by the Calculation Agent or by a party hereto shall be performed in good faith and in a commercially reasonable manner.
Calculation Agent.
th
Credit Support Document.
MLI: Guarantee of ML & Co. in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A.
 
Counterparty: Not Applicable
Credit Support Provider.
With respect to MLI: ML & Co.
With respect to Counterparty: Not Applicable.
This Confirmation will be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
Each party waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any right it may have to a trial by jury in respect of any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Transaction. Each party (i) certifies that no representative, agent or attorney of the other party has represented, expressly or otherwise, that such other party would not, in the event of such a suit, action or proceeding, seek to enforce the foregoing waiver and (ii) acknowledges that it and the other party have been induced to enter into this Transaction, as applicable, by, among other things, the mutual waivers and certifications provided herein.
Waiver of Jury Trial.
The provisions of of the Agreement shall not be applicable to this Transaction.
Netting of Payments
.
Section 2(c)
of the Agreement is hereby amended by the deletion of "and" at the end of ; the substitution of a semicolon for the period at the end of and the addition of , as follows:
Basic Representations.
Section 3(a)
Section 3(a)(iv)
Section 3(a)(v)
Sections 3(a)(vi)
Acknowledgements:
of the Agreement is modified by deleting the words "on the day" in the second line thereof and substituting therefor "on the day that is three Local Business Days after the day".
Amendment of
Section 6(d)(ii
)
.
Section 6(d)(ii)
 
is further modified by deleting the words "two Local Business Days" in the fourth line thereof and substituting therefor "three Local Business Days."
Section 6(d)(ii)
. The definition of "Reference Market-Makers" in is hereby amended by adding in clause (a) after the word "credit" and before the word "and" the words "or to enter into transactions similar in nature to the Transactions."
Amendment of Definition of Reference Market-Makers
Section 14
Each party consents to the recording of the telephone conversations of trading and marketing personnel of the parties and their Affiliates in connection with this Confirmation. To the extent that one party records telephone conversations (the "Recording Party") and the other party does not (the "Non-Recording Party"), the Recording Party shall in the event of any dispute, make a complete and unedited copy of such party's tape of the entire day's conversations with the Non-Recording Party's personnel available to the Non-Recording Party. The Recording Party's tapes may be used by either party in any forum in which a dispute is sought to be resolved and the Recording Party will retain tapes for a consistent period of time in accordance with the Recording Party's policy unless one party notifies the other that a particular transaction is under review and warrants further retention.
Consent to Recording.
Each party hereby acknowledges and agrees that MLI has authorized Counterparty to disclose this Transaction and any related hedging transaction between the parties if and to the extent that Counterparty reasonably determines (after consultation with MLI) that such disclosure is required by law or by the rules of the New York Stock Exchange or any securities exchange. Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective from the date of commencement of discussions concerning the Transaction, Counterparty and each of its employees, representatives, or other agents may disclose to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure of the Transaction and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are provided to Counterparty relating to such tax treatment and tax structure.
Disclosure.
. If any term, provision, covenant or condition of this Confirmation, or the application thereof to any party or circumstance, shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part for any reason, the remaining terms, provisions, covenants, and conditions hereof shall continue in full force and effect as if this Confirmation had been executed with the invalid or unenforceable provision eliminated, so long as this Confirmation as so modified continues to express, without material change, the original intentions of the parties as to the subject matter of this Confirmation and the deletion of such portion of this Confirmation will not substantially impair the respective benefits or expectations of parties to this Agreement; , , that this severability provision shall not be applicable if any provision of , , or of the Agreement (or any definition or provision in to the extent that it relates to, or is used in or in connection with any such Section) shall be so held to be invalid or unenforceable.
Severability
provided
however
Section 2
5
6
13
Section 14
. For purposes of of the Agreement, each party shall be deemed to be an Affected Party in connection with Illegality and any Tax Event.
Affected Parties
Section 6(e)
 
     Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing the copy of this Confirmation enclosed for that purpose and returning it to us.
Confirmed as of the date first above written:
MYLAN LABORATORIES INC.
Acknowledged and agreed as to matters to the Agent: Solely in its capacity as Agent hereunder
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED,
 
EXHIBIT A
     FOR VALUE RECEIVED, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, MERRILL LYNCH & CO., INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware ("ML & Co."), hereby unconditionally guarantees to Mylan Laboratories Inc. (the "Company"), the due and punctual payment of any and all amounts payable by Merrill Lynch International, a company organized under the laws of England and Wales ("ML"), under the terms of the Confirmation of OTC Warrant Transaction between the Company and ML (ML as Buyer), dated as of March 1, 2007 (the "Confirmation"), including, in case of default, interest on any amount due, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether on the scheduled payment dates, at maturity, upon declaration of termination or otherwise, according to the terms thereof. In case of the failure of ML punctually to make any such payment, ML & Co. hereby agrees to make such payment, or cause such payment to be made, promptly upon demand made by the Company to ML & Co.; provided, however that delay by the Company in giving such demand shall in no event affect ML & Co.'s obligations under this Guarantee. This Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect or shall be reinstated (as the case may be) if at any time any payment guaranteed hereunder, in whole or in part, is rescinded or must otherwise be returned by the Company upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of ML or otherwise, all as though such payment had not been made.
     ML & Co. hereby agrees that its obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Confirmation; the absence of any action to enforce the same; any waiver or consent by the Company concerning any provisions thereof; the rendering of any judgment against ML or any action to enforce the same; or any other circumstances that might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge of a guarantor or a defense of a guarantor. ML covenants that this guarantee will not be discharged except by complete payment of the amounts payable under the Confirmation. This Guarantee shall continue to be effective if ML merges or consolidates with or into another entity, loses its separate legal identity or ceases to exist.
     ML & Co. hereby waives diligence; presentment; protest; notice of protest, acceleration, and dishonor; filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of ML; all demands whatsoever, except as noted in the first paragraph hereof; and any right to require a proceeding first against ML.
     ML & Co. hereby certifies and warrants that this Guarantee constitutes the valid obligation of ML & Co. and complies with all applicable laws.
     This Guarantee shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
     This Guarantee may be terminated at any time by notice by ML & Co. to the Company given in accordance with the notice provisions of the Confirmation, effective upon receipt of such notice by the Company or such later date as may be specified in such notice; provided, however, that this Guarantee shall continue in full force and effect with respect to any obligation of ML under the Confirmation arising before or after such termination.
     This Guarantee becomes effective concurrent with the effectiveness of the Confirmation, according to its terms.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, ML & Co. has caused this Guarantee to be executed in its corporate name by its duly authorized representative.
 

 
Exhibit 4.5
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association London Branch P.O. Box 161 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP England
Confirmation of OTC Warrant Transaction
JPM Reference: 2725356
 
Dear Sir / Madam:
     The purpose of this letter agreement (this "") is to confirm the terms and conditions of the above-referenced transaction entered into between Counterparty and JPM on the Trade Date specified below (the ""). This Confirmation constitutes a "Confirmation" as referred to in the Agreement specified below.
Confirmation
Transaction
     The definitions and provisions contained in the 2000 ISDA Definitions (the "") and the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the "" and, together with the Swap Definitions, the ""), in each case as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., are incorporated into this Confirmation. In the event of any inconsistency between the Swap Definitions and the Equity Definitions, the Equity Definitions will govern, and in the event of any inconsistency between the Definitions and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will govern. References herein to a "Transaction" shall be deemed to be references to a "Share Option Transaction" for the purposes of the Equity Definitions and to a "Swap Transaction" for the purposes of the Swap Definitions. For purposes of this Transaction, "Warrant Style", "Warrant Type", "Number of Warrants" and "Warrant Entitlement" (each as defined below) shall be used herein as if such terms were referred to as "Option Style", "Option Type", "Number of Options" and "Option Entitlement", respectively, in the Definitions.
Swap Definitions
Equity Definitions
Definitions
     This Confirmation evidences a complete binding agreement between you and us as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation (notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein), shall be subject to, and form part of, an agreement in the 1992 form of the ISDA Master Agreement (Multicurrency Cross Border) (the "" or "") as if we had executed an agreement in such form (but without any Schedule and with elections specified in the "ISDA Master Agreement" Section of this Confirmation) on the Trade Date. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of that Agreement and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will prevail for the purpose of this Transaction. The parties hereby agree that the Transaction evidenced by this Confirmation shall be the only Transaction subject to and governed by the Agreement.
Master Agreement
Agreement
     The terms of the particular Transaction to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Agreements, Representations and Covenants of Counterparty, Etc.:
 
Matters Relating to Agent:
Each party agrees and acknowledges that (i) J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., an affiliate of JPM (the "Agent" or "JPMSI"), has acted solely as agent and not as principal with respect to this Transaction and (ii) JPMSI has no obligation or liability, by way of guaranty, endorsement or otherwise, in any manner in respect of this Transaction (including, if applicable, in respect of the settlement thereof). Each party agrees it will look solely to the other party (or any guarantor in respect thereof) for performance of such other party's obligations under this Transaction.
ISDA Master Agreement:
With respect to the Agreement, JPM and Counterparty each agree as follows:
"" means in relation to Seller and in relation to Counterparty for purposes of this Transaction: Not applicable.
Specified Entity
The provisions of "" set forth in Section 5(a)(v) of the Agreement shall not apply to JPM or Counterparty.
Default under Specified Transaction
The "" provisions of Section 5(a)(vi) of the Agreement shall not apply to JPM or Counterparty.
Cross Default
The "" provisions of Section 5(b)(iv) of the Agreement will not apply to JPM and Counterparty.
Credit Event Upon Merger
. If within the period commencing on the Trade Date and ending on the second anniversary of the Premium Payment Date, Buyer reasonably determines that it is advisable to terminate all or a portion of the Transaction so that Buyer's related hedging activities will comply with applicable securities laws, rules or regulations, (1) Buyer shall have the right to designate such event an Additional Termination Event and designate an Early Termination Date pursuant to Section 6(b) of the Agreement and (2) Seller shall be deemed the sole Affected Party and the Transaction (or terminated portion thereof) shall be deemed the sole Affected Transaction.
Additional Termination Event
The "" provision of of the Agreement will not apply to JPM or to Counterparty.
Automatic Early Termination
Section 6(a)
 
. For the purpose of of the Agreement: (i) Loss shall apply; and (ii) the Second Method shall apply.
Payments on Early Termination
Section 6(e)
"" means USD.
Termination Currency
Tax Representations.
For the purpose of and of the Agreement, each party agrees to deliver the following documents:
Delivery Requirements.
Sections 4(a)(i)
(ii)
 
For the purpose of of the Agreement:
Addresses for Notices:
Section 12(a)
Address for notices or communications to JPM for all purposes:
Address for notices or communications to Counterparty for all purposes:
For the purpose of Section 13(c) of the Agreement, neither party appoints a Process Agent.
Process Agent:
. For the purpose of of the Agreement: Counterparty is not a Multibranch Party. The Office of JPM for the Transaction is: London
Multibranch Party
Section 10(c)
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association London Branch P.O. Box 161 60 Victoria Embankment London EC4Y 0JP England
The Calculation Agent is JPM. Upon the request of either party, the Calculation Agent (or, in the case of a determination made by a party (including a party acting as Determining Party or Hedging Party), such party) shall, no later than the 5 Business Day following such request, provide the parties with a statement showing, in reasonable detail, the computations (including any relevant quotations) by which it has determined any amount payable or deliverable under, or any adjustment to the terms of, this Transaction. All judgments, determinations and calculations hereunder by the Calculation Agent or by a party hereto shall be performed in good faith and in a commercially reasonable manner.
Calculation Agent.
th
Credit Support Document.
JPM: Not Applicable.
Counterparty: Not Applicable
Credit Support Provider.
 
With respect to JPM: Not Applicable.
With respect to Counterparty: Not Applicable.
This Confirmation will be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
Each party waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any right it may have to a trial by jury in respect of any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Transaction. Each party (i) certifies that no representative, agent or attorney of the other party has represented, expressly or otherwise, that such other party would not, in the event of such a suit, action or proceeding, seek to enforce the foregoing waiver and (ii) acknowledges that it and the other party have been induced to enter into this Transaction, as applicable, by, among other things, the mutual waivers and certifications provided herein.
Waiver of Jury Trial.
The provisions of of the Agreement shall not be applicable to this Transaction.
Netting of Payments
.
Section 2(c)
of the Agreement is hereby amended by the deletion of "and" at the end of ; the substitution of a semicolon for the period at the end of and the addition of , as follows:
Basic Representations.
Section 3(a)
Section 3(a)(iv)
Section 3(a)(v)
Sections 3(a)(vi)
Each party agrees and represents that it is an "eligible contract participant" as defined in Section 1a(12) of the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act, as amended (""), this Agreement and the Transaction thereunder are subject to individual negotiation by the parties and have not been executed or traded on a "trading facility" as defined in Section 1a(33) of the CEA, and it has entered into this Confirmation and this Transaction in connection with its business or a line of business (including financial intermediation), or the financing of its business.
Eligible Contract Participant; Line of Business.
CEA
Acknowledgements:
of the Agreement is modified by deleting the words "on the day" in the second line thereof and substituting therefor "on the day that is three Local Business Days after the day". is further modified by deleting the words "two Local Business Days" in the fourth line thereof and substituting therefor "three Local Business Days."
Amendment of
Section 6(d)(ii
)
.
Section 6(d)(ii)
Section 6(d)(ii)
 
. The definition of "Reference Market-Makers" in is hereby amended by adding in clause (a) after the word "credit" and before the word "and" the words "or to enter into transactions similar in nature to the Transactions."
Amendment of Definition of Reference Market-Makers
Section 14
Each party hereby acknowledges and agrees that JPM has authorized Counterparty to disclose this Transaction and any related hedging transaction between the parties if and to the extent that Counterparty reasonably determines (after consultation with JPM) that such disclosure is required by law or by the rules of the New York Stock Exchange or any securities exchange. Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective from the date of commencement of discussions concerning the Transaction, Counterparty and each of its employees, representatives, or other agents may disclose to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure of the Transaction and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are provided to Counterparty relating to such tax treatment and tax structure.
Disclosure.
. If any term, provision, covenant or condition of this Confirmation, or the application thereof to any party or circumstance, shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part for any reason, the remaining terms, provisions, covenants, and conditions hereof shall continue in full force and effect as if this Confirmation had been executed with the invalid or unenforceable provision eliminated, so long as this Confirmation as so modified continues to express, without material change, the original intentions of the parties as to the subject matter of this Confirmation and the deletion of such portion of this Confirmation will not substantially impair the respective benefits or expectations of parties to this Agreement; , , that this severability provision shall not be applicable if any provision of , , or of the Agreement (or any definition or provision in to the extent that it relates to, or is used in or in connection with any such Section) shall be so held to be invalid or unenforceable.
Severability
provided
however
Section 2
5
6
13
Section 14
. For purposes of of the Agreement, each party shall be deemed to be an Affected Party in connection with Illegality and any Tax Event.
Affected Parties
Section 6(e)
 
     Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing the copy of this Confirmation enclosed for that purpose and returning it to us.
Confirmed as of the date first above written:
MYLAN LABORATORIES INC.
 

 
Exhibit 4.6
Confirmation of Additional OTC Warrant Transaction
MLI Reference: 0782717
Dear Sir / Madam:
     The purpose of this letter agreement (this "") is to confirm the terms and conditions of the above-referenced transaction entered into among Counterparty, MLI and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (the "" or "") on the Trade Date specified below (the ""). This Confirmation constitutes a "Confirmation" as referred to in the Agreement specified below.
Confirmation
Agent
MLPFS
Transaction
     The definitions and provisions contained in the 2000 ISDA Definitions (the "") and the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the "" and, together with the Swap Definitions, the ""), in each case as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., are incorporated into this Confirmation. In the event of any inconsistency between the Swap Definitions and the Equity Definitions, the Equity Definitions will govern, and in the event of any inconsistency between the Definitions and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will govern. References herein to a "Transaction" shall be deemed to be references to a "Share Option Transaction" for the purposes of the Equity Definitions and to a "Swap Transaction" for the purposes of the Swap Definitions. For purposes of this Transaction, "Warrant Style", "Warrant Type", "Number of Warrants" and "Warrant Entitlement" (each as defined below) shall be used herein as if such terms were referred to as "Option Style", "Option Type", "Number of Options" and "Option Entitlement", respectively, in the Definitions.
Swap Definitions
Equity Definitions
Definitions
     This Confirmation evidences a complete binding agreement between you and us as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation (notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein), shall be subject to, and form part of, an agreement in the 1992 form of the ISDA Master Agreement (Multicurrency Cross Border) (the "" or "") as if we had executed an agreement in such form (but without any Schedule and with elections specified in the "ISDA Master Agreement" Section of this Confirmation) on the Trade Date. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of that Agreement and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will prevail for the purpose of this Transaction. The parties hereby agree that the Transaction evidenced by this Confirmation shall be the only Transaction subject to and governed by the Agreement.
Master Agreement
Agreement
     The terms of the particular Transaction to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:
General Terms:
 
Procedures for Exercise:
 
Valuation:
Settlement Terms:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Disruption Events:
Other Provisions:
 
 
 
Huntington National Bank ABA#: A/C Name: Mylan Laboratories Inc. A/C: 01411114335
 
Chase Manhattan Bank, New York
ABA#: 021-000-021 FAO: ML Equity Derivatives A/C: 066213118
 
Additional Agreements, Representations and Covenants of Counterparty, Etc.:
 
directly or indirectly, an Excess Share Owner, then MLI shall provide notice of the taking of such action to Counterparty and such Warrant shall then become exercisable by MLI to the extent such Warrant is otherwise or had otherwise become exercisable hereunder; provided that any such notice must be delivered by MLI no later than September 30, 2012. In such event, the Expiration Date with respect to such Warrant shall be the date on which Counterparty receives such notice from MLI, and the related Settlement Date shall be as soon as reasonably practicable after receipt of such notice but no more than three (3) Exchange Business Days thereafter (but in no event shall the Settlement Date occur prior to the date on which it would have otherwise occurred but for the provisions of this subsection); that the related Net Physical Settlement Amount shall be the same as the Net Physical Settlement Amount but for the provisions of this subsection. In addition, within 30 calendar days of a Settlement Date, Counterparty shall use its reasonable efforts to refrain from activities that could reasonably be expected to result in MLI's ownership of Shares exceeding 10% of all issued and outstanding Shares.
provided
Matters Relating to Agent:
ISDA Master Agreement:
With respect to the Agreement, MLI and Counterparty each agree as follows:
"" means in relation to Seller and in relation to Counterparty for purposes of this Transaction: Not applicable.
Specified Entity
The provisions of "" set forth in Section 5(a)(v) of the Agreement shall not apply to MLI or Counterparty.
Default under Specified Transaction
The "" provisions of Section 5(a)(vi) of the Agreement shall not apply to MLI or Counterparty.
Cross Default
The "" provisions of Section 5(b)(iv) of the Agreement will not apply to MLI and Counterparty.
Credit Event Upon Merger
. If within the period commencing on the Trade Date and ending on the second anniversary of the Premium Payment Date, Buyer reasonably determines that it is advisable to terminate all or a portion of the Transaction so that Buyer's related hedging activities will comply with applicable securities laws, rules or regulations, (1) Buyer shall have the right to designate such event an Additional Termination Event and designate an Early Termination Date pursuant to Section 6(b) of the Agreement and (2) Seller shall be deemed the sole Affected Party and the Transaction (or terminated portion thereof) shall be deemed the sole Affected Transaction.
Additional Termination Event
The "" provision of of the Agreement will not apply to MLI or to Counterparty.
Automatic Early Termination
Section 6(a)
 
. For the purpose of of the Agreement: (i) Loss shall apply; and (ii) the Second Method shall apply.
Payments on Early Termination
Section 6(e)
"" means USD.
Termination Currency
Tax Representations.
For the purpose of and of the Agreement, each party agrees to deliver the following documents:
Delivery Requirements.
Sections 4(a)(i)
(ii)
 
. For the purpose of of the Agreement: Neither MLI nor Counterparty is a Multibranch Party.
Multibranch Party
Section 10(c)
The Calculation Agent is MLI. Upon the request of either party, the Calculation Agent (or, in the case of a determination made by a party (including a party acting as Determining Party or Hedging Party), such party) shall, no later than the 5 Business Day following such request, provide the parties with a statement showing, in reasonable detail, the computations (including any relevant quotations) by which it has determined any amount payable or deliverable under, or any adjustment to the terms of, this Transaction. All judgments, determinations and calculations hereunder by the Calculation Agent or by a party hereto shall be performed in good faith and in a commercially reasonable manner.
Calculation Agent.
th
Credit Support Document.
MLI: Guarantee of ML & Co. in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A.
 
Counterparty: Not Applicable
Credit Support Provider.
With respect to MLI: ML & Co.
With respect to Counterparty: Not Applicable.
This Confirmation will be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
Each party waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any right it may have to a trial by jury in respect of any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Transaction. Each party (i) certifies that no representative, agent or attorney of the other party has represented, expressly or otherwise, that such other party would not, in the event of such a suit, action or proceeding, seek to enforce the foregoing waiver and (ii) acknowledges that it and the other party have been induced to enter into this Transaction, as applicable, by, among other things, the mutual waivers and certifications provided herein.
Waiver of Jury Trial.
The provisions of of the Agreement shall not be applicable to this Transaction.
Netting of Payments
.
Section 2(c)
of the Agreement is hereby amended by the deletion of "and" at the end of ; the substitution of a semicolon for the period at the end of and the addition of , as follows:
Basic Representations.
Section 3(a)
Section 3(a)(iv)
Section 3(a)(v)
Sections 3(a)(vi)
Each party agrees and represents that it is an "eligible contract participant" as defined in Section 1a(12) of the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act, as amended (""), this Agreement and the Transaction thereunder are subject to individual negotiation by the parties and have not been executed or traded on a "trading facility" as defined in Section 1a(33) of the CEA, and it has entered into this Confirmation and this Transaction in connection with its business or a line of business (including financial intermediation), or the financing of its business.
Eligible Contract Participant; Line of Business.
CEA
Acknowledgements:
of the Agreement is modified by deleting the words "on the day" in the second line thereof and substituting therefor "on the day that is three Local Business Days after the day".
Amendment of
Section 6(d)(ii
)
.
Section 6(d)(ii)
 
is further modified by deleting the words "two Local Business Days" in the fourth line thereof and substituting therefor "three Local Business Days."
Section 6(d)(ii)
. The definition of "Reference Market-Makers" in is hereby amended by adding in clause (a) after the word "credit" and before the word "and" the words "or to enter into transactions similar in nature to the Transactions."
Amendment of Definition of Reference Market-Makers
Section 14
Each party consents to the recording of the telephone conversations of trading and marketing personnel of the parties and their Affiliates in connection with this Confirmation. To the extent that one party records telephone conversations (the "Recording Party") and the other party does not (the "Non-Recording Party"), the Recording Party shall in the event of any dispute, make a complete and unedited copy of such party's tape of the entire day's conversations with the Non-Recording Party's personnel available to the Non-Recording Party. The Recording Party's tapes may be used by either party in any forum in which a dispute is sought to be resolved and the Recording Party will retain tapes for a consistent period of time in accordance with the Recording Party's policy unless one party notifies the other that a particular transaction is under review and warrants further retention.
Consent to Recording.
Each party hereby acknowledges and agrees that MLI has authorized Counterparty to disclose this Transaction and any related hedging transaction between the parties if and to the extent that Counterparty reasonably determines (after consultation with MLI) that such disclosure is required by law or by the rules of the New York Stock Exchange or any securities exchange. Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective from the date of commencement of discussions concerning the Transaction, Counterparty and each of its employees, representatives, or other agents may disclose to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure of the Transaction and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are provided to Counterparty relating to such tax treatment and tax structure.
Disclosure.
. If any term, provision, covenant or condition of this Confirmation, or the application thereof to any party or circumstance, shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part for any reason, the remaining terms, provisions, covenants, and conditions hereof shall continue in full force and effect as if this Confirmation had been executed with the invalid or unenforceable provision eliminated, so long as this Confirmation as so modified continues to express, without material change, the original intentions of the parties as to the subject matter of this Confirmation and the deletion of such portion of this Confirmation will not substantially impair the respective benefits or expectations of parties to this Agreement; , , that this severability provision shall not be applicable if any provision of , , or of the Agreement (or any definition or provision in to the extent that it relates to, or is used in or in connection with any such Section) shall be so held to be invalid or unenforceable.
Severability
provided
however
Section 2
5
6
13
Section 14
. For purposes of of the Agreement, each party shall be deemed to be an Affected Party in connection with Illegality and any Tax Event.
Affected Parties
Section 6(e)
 
     Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing the copy of this Confirmation enclosed for that purpose and returning it to us.
Confirmed as of the date first above written:
MYLAN LABORATORIES INC.
Acknowledged and agreed as to matters to the Agent: Solely in its capacity as Agent hereunder
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED,
 
EXHIBIT A
     FOR VALUE RECEIVED, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, MERRILL LYNCH & CO., INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware ("ML & Co."), hereby unconditionally guarantees to Mylan Laboratories Inc. (the "Company"), the due and punctual payment of any and all amounts payable by Merrill Lynch International, a company organized under the laws of England and Wales ("ML"), under the terms of the Confirmation of OTC Warrant Transaction between the Company and ML (ML as Buyer), dated as of March 1, 2007 (the "Confirmation"), including, in case of default, interest on any amount due, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether on the scheduled payment dates, at maturity, upon declaration of termination or otherwise, according to the terms thereof. In case of the failure of ML punctually to make any such payment, ML & Co. hereby agrees to make such payment, or cause such payment to be made, promptly upon demand made by the Company to ML & Co.; provided, however that delay by the Company in giving such demand shall in no event affect ML & Co.'s obligations under this Guarantee. This Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect or shall be reinstated (as the case may be) if at any time any payment guaranteed hereunder, in whole or in part, is rescinded or must otherwise be returned by the Company upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of ML or otherwise, all as though such payment had not been made.
     ML & Co. hereby agrees that its obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Confirmation; the absence of any action to enforce the same; any waiver or consent by the Company concerning any provisions thereof; the rendering of any judgment against ML or any action to enforce the same; or any other circumstances that might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge of a guarantor or a defense of a guarantor. ML covenants that this guarantee will not be discharged except by complete payment of the amounts payable under the Confirmation. This Guarantee shall continue to be effective if ML merges or consolidates with or into another entity, loses its separate legal identity or ceases to exist.
     ML & Co. hereby waives diligence; presentment; protest; notice of protest, acceleration, and dishonor; filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of ML; all demands whatsoever, except as noted in the first paragraph hereof; and any right to require a proceeding first against ML.
     ML & Co. hereby certifies and warrants that this Guarantee constitutes the valid obligation of ML & Co. and complies with all applicable laws.
     This Guarantee shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
     This Guarantee may be terminated at any time by notice by ML & Co. to the Company given in accordance with the notice provisions of the Confirmation, effective upon receipt of such notice by the Company or such later date as may be specified in such notice; provided, however, that this Guarantee shall continue in full force and effect with respect to any obligation of ML under the Confirmation arising before or after such termination.
     This Guarantee becomes effective concurrent with the effectiveness of the Confirmation, according to its terms.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, ML & Co. has caused this Guarantee to be executed in its corporate name by its duly authorized representative.
 

 
Exhibit 4.7
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association London Branch P.O. Box 161 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP England
Confirmation of Additional OTC Warrant Transaction
Dear Sir / Madam:
     The purpose of this letter agreement (this "") is to confirm the terms and conditions of the above-referenced transaction entered into between Counterparty and JPM on the Trade Date specified below (the ""). This Confirmation constitutes a "Confirmation" as referred to in the Agreement specified below.
Confirmation
Transaction
     The definitions and provisions contained in the 2000 ISDA Definitions (the "") and the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the "" and, together with the Swap Definitions, the ""), in each case as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., are incorporated into this Confirmation. In the event of any inconsistency between the Swap Definitions and the Equity Definitions, the Equity Definitions will govern, and in the event of any inconsistency between the Definitions and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will govern. References herein to a "Transaction" shall be deemed to be references to a "Share Option Transaction" for the purposes of the Equity Definitions and to a "Swap Transaction" for the purposes of the Swap Definitions. For purposes of this Transaction, "Warrant Style", "Warrant Type", "Number of Warrants" and "Warrant Entitlement" (each as defined below) shall be used herein as if such terms were referred to as "Option Style", "Option Type", "Number of Options" and "Option Entitlement", respectively, in the Definitions.
Swap Definitions
Equity Definitions
Definitions
     This Confirmation evidences a complete binding agreement between you and us as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation (notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein), shall be subject to, and form part of, an agreement in the 1992 form of the ISDA Master Agreement (Multicurrency Cross Border) (the "" or "") as if we had executed an agreement in such form (but without any Schedule and with elections specified in the "ISDA Master Agreement" Section of this Confirmation) on the Trade Date. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of that Agreement and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will prevail for the purpose of this Transaction. The parties hereby agree that the Transaction evidenced by this Confirmation shall be the only Transaction subject to and governed by the Agreement.
Master Agreement
Agreement
     The terms of the particular Transaction to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Agreements, Representations and Covenants of Counterparty, Etc.:
 
Matters Relating to Agent:
Each party agrees and acknowledges that (i) J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., an affiliate of JPM (the "Agent" or "JPMSI"), has acted solely as agent and not as principal with respect to this Transaction and (ii) JPMSI has no obligation or liability, by way of guaranty, endorsement or otherwise, in any manner in respect of this Transaction (including, if applicable, in respect of the settlement thereof). Each party agrees it will look solely to the other party (or any guarantor in respect thereof) for performance of such other party's obligations under this Transaction.
ISDA Master Agreement:
With respect to the Agreement, JPM and Counterparty each agree as follows:
"" means in relation to Seller and in relation to Counterparty for purposes of this Transaction: Not applicable.
Specified Entity
The provisions of "" set forth in Section 5(a)(v) of the Agreement shall not apply to JPM or Counterparty.
Default under Specified Transaction
The "" provisions of Section 5(a)(vi) of the Agreement shall not apply to JPM or Counterparty.
Cross Default
The "" provisions of Section 5(b)(iv) of the Agreement will not apply to JPM and Counterparty.
Credit Event Upon Merger
. If within the period commencing on the Trade Date and ending on the second anniversary of the Premium Payment Date, Buyer reasonably determines that it is advisable to terminate all or a portion of the Transaction so that Buyer's related hedging activities will comply with applicable securities laws, rules or regulations, (1) Buyer shall have the right to designate such event an Additional Termination Event and designate an Early Termination Date pursuant to Section 6(b) of the Agreement and (2) Seller shall be deemed the sole Affected Party and the Transaction (or terminated portion thereof) shall be deemed the sole Affected Transaction.
Additional Termination Event
The "" provision of of the Agreement will not apply to JPM or to Counterparty.
Automatic Early Termination
Section 6(a)
 
. For the purpose of of the Agreement: (i) Loss shall apply; and (ii) the Second Method shall apply.
Payments on Early Termination
Section 6(e)
"" means USD.
Termination Currency
Tax Representations.
For the purpose of and of the Agreement, each party agrees to deliver the following documents:
Delivery Requirements.
Sections 4(a)(i)
(ii)
 
For the purpose of of the Agreement:
Addresses for Notices:
Section 12(a)
Address for notices or communications to JPM for all purposes:
Address for notices or communications to Counterparty for all purposes:
For the purpose of Section 13(c) of the Agreement, neither party appoints a Process Agent.
Process Agent:
. For the purpose of of the Agreement: Counterparty is not a Multibranch Party. The Office of JPM for the Transaction is: London
Multibranch Party
Section 10(c)
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association London Branch P.O. Box 161 60 Victoria Embankment London EC4Y 0JP England
The Calculation Agent is JPM. Upon the request of either party, the Calculation Agent (or, in the case of a determination made by a party (including a party acting as Determining Party or Hedging Party), such party) shall, no later than the 5 Business Day following such request, provide the parties with a statement showing, in reasonable detail, the computations (including any relevant quotations) by which it has determined any amount payable or deliverable under, or any adjustment to the terms of, this Transaction. All judgments, determinations and calculations hereunder by the Calculation Agent or by a party hereto shall be performed in good faith and in a commercially reasonable manner.
Calculation Agent.
th
Credit Support Document.
JPM: Not Applicable.
Counterparty: Not Applicable
Credit Support Provider.
 
With respect to JPM: Not Applicable.
With respect to Counterparty: Not Applicable.
This Confirmation will be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
Each party waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any right it may have to a trial by jury in respect of any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Transaction. Each party (i) certifies that no representative, agent or attorney of the other party has represented, expressly or otherwise, that such other party would not, in the event of such a suit, action or proceeding, seek to enforce the foregoing waiver and (ii) acknowledges that it and the other party have been induced to enter into this Transaction, as applicable, by, among other things, the mutual waivers and certifications provided herein.
Waiver of Jury Trial.
The provisions of of the Agreement shall not be applicable to this Transaction.
Netting of Payments
.
Section 2(c)
of the Agreement is hereby amended by the deletion of "and" at the end of ; the substitution of a semicolon for the period at the end of and the addition of , as follows:
Basic Representations.
Section 3(a)
Section 3(a)(iv)
Section 3(a)(v)
Sections 3(a)(vi)
Each party agrees and represents that it is an "eligible contract participant" as defined in Section 1a(12) of the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act, as amended (""), this Agreement and the Transaction thereunder are subject to individual negotiation by the parties and have not been executed or traded on a "trading facility" as defined in Section 1a(33) of the CEA, and it has entered into this Confirmation and this Transaction in connection with its business or a line of business (including financial intermediation), or the financing of its business.
Eligible Contract Participant; Line of Business.
CEA
Acknowledgements:
of the Agreement is modified by deleting the words "on the day" in the second line thereof and substituting therefor "on the day that is three Local Business Days after the day". is further modified by deleting the words "two Local Business Days" in the fourth line thereof and substituting therefor "three Local Business Days."
Amendment of
Section 
6(d)
(ii
)
.
Section 6(d)(ii)
Section 6(d)(ii)
 
. The definition of "Reference Market-Makers" in is hereby amended by adding in clause (a) after the word "credit" and before the word "and" the words "or to enter into transactions similar in nature to the Transactions."
Amendment of Definition of Reference Market-Makers
Section 14
Each party hereby acknowledges and agrees that JPM has authorized Counterparty to disclose this Transaction and any related hedging transaction between the parties if and to the extent that Counterparty reasonably determines (after consultation with JPM) that such disclosure is required by law or by the rules of the New York Stock Exchange or any securities exchange. Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective from the date of commencement of discussions concerning the Transaction, Counterparty and each of its employees, representatives, or other agents may disclose to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure of the Transaction and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are provided to Counterparty relating to such tax treatment and tax structure.
Disclosure.
. If any term, provision, covenant or condition of this Confirmation, or the application thereof to any party or circumstance, shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part for any reason, the remaining terms, provisions, covenants, and conditions hereof shall continue in full force and effect as if this Confirmation had been executed with the invalid or unenforceable provision eliminated, so long as this Confirmation as so modified continues to express, without material change, the original intentions of the parties as to the subject matter of this Confirmation and the deletion of such portion of this Confirmation will not substantially impair the respective benefits or expectations of parties to this Agreement; , , that this severability provision shall not be applicable if any provision of , , or of the Agreement (or any definition or provision in to the extent that it relates to, or is used in or in connection with any such Section) shall be so held to be invalid or unenforceable.
Severability
provided
however
Section 2
5
6
13
Section 14
. For purposes of of the Agreement, each party shall be deemed to be an Affected Party in connection with Illegality and any Tax Event.
Affected Parties
Section 6(e)
 
     Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing the copy of this Confirmation enclosed for that purpose and returning it to us.
Confirmed as of the date first above written:
MYLAN LABORATORIES INC.
 


