FILE:MYL/MYL-8K-20070220062619.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Table of Contents
     As reported in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Mylan Laboratories Inc. ("Mylan" or the "Company") on January 10, 2007 (the "Initial Form 8-K"), Mylan, through an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, acquired a controlling stake in Matrix Laboratories Limited ("Matrix") on January 8, 2007. Pursuant to Item 9.01 (a) (4), this Form 8-K/A amends the Initial Form 8-K and is being filed in order to include the required historical financial statements of Matrix and the related pro forma financial information not later than 71 calendar days after the date that the Initial Form 8-K was required to have been filed. In accordance with Securities Exchange Act Rule 12b-15, the complete text of Items 2.01 and 9.01 as amended are set forth below.
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
     As previously announced, on August 28, 2006, the Company entered into a Share Purchase Agreement (the "Share Purchase Agreement") to acquire, through MP Laboratories (Mauritius) Ltd, its wholly-owned indirect subsidiary, approximately 51.5% of the outstanding share capital of Matrix Laboratories Limited, a publicly traded Indian company ("Matrix"), from Prasad Nimmagadda ("Mr. Prasad"), Prasad Nimmagadda-Huf, G2 Corporate Services Limited, India Newbridge Coinvestment Limited, India Newbridge Partners FDI Limited, India Newbridge Investments Limited, Maxwell (Mauritius) Pte. Limited and Spandana Foundation at a price of Rs. 306 per share.
     Also, in accordance with applicable Indian law as a result of signing the Share Purchase Agreement, the Company previously commenced an open offer to acquire up to an additional 20% of the outstanding share capital of Matrix (the "Public Offer") from Matrix's shareholders (other than the selling shareholders under the Share Purchase Agreement and overseas corporate bodies). On December 21, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing the completion of the Public Offer and its acquisition of 20% of the outstanding share capital of Matrix, at a price of Rs. 306 per share.
     On January 8, 2007, in accordance with the terms of the Share Purchase Agreement, the Company completed the acquisition of approximately 51.5% of the outstanding share capital of Matrix. As previously disclosed, effective January 8, 2007, Mr. Prasad was appointed as a member of the Board of Directors and as an officer of the Company and entered into certain agreements with the Company in connection with these appointments.
     As a result of the two transactions, the Company now owns approximately 71.5% of the outstanding share capital of Matrix.
     As previously disclosed, immediately following the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Share Purchase Agreement, certain of the selling shareholders used approximately $143,000,000 of their proceeds to acquire the Company's common stock from the Company in a private sale at a price of $20.85 per share. Mr. Prasad, through an affiliate by virtue of an assignment permitted by the Share Purchase Agreement also has invested $25,000,000 of his proceeds in the Company's common stock, in a private sale at a price of $20.85 per share with the Company which closed in February 2007.
     On January 8, 2007, the Company and Matrix issued a joint press release announcing the closing of the Matrix acquisition. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
          (a) Financial statements of business acquired
          The following historical financial information of Matrix is attached to this Current Report and is incorporated by reference in this Item 9.01.
Table of Contents
          (b) Pro forma financial information
          The following pro forma financial information is attached to this Current Report and is incorporated by reference in this Item 9.01.
          (c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
The following financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("US GAAP") and are presented in accordance with the requirements of Regulation S-X, Rule 3-05(b). Matrix Laboratories Limited ("Matrix") has a fiscal year end of March 31. Mylan Laboratories Inc. acquired a controlling stake in Matrix on January 8, 2007 and, accordingly, the audited consolidated financial statements of Matrix for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, and the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Matrix for the nine months ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, are presented.
Table of Contents
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Matrix Laboratories Limited:
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Matrix Laboratories Limited and subsidiaries (collectively referred to as "Matrix Limited" or the "Company") as of March 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in shareholders' equity, and cash flows for the years then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Matrix Laboratories Limited and subsidiaries at March 31, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the years then ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which differ in certain material aspects from accounting principles generally accepted in India, which form the basis of Matrix Limited's general purpose financial statements.
/s/ Deloitte Haskins & Sells Hyderabad, India January 5, 2007
Table of Contents
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Table of Contents
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Table of Contents
     The accompanying Notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Supplementary cash flow information:
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Table of Contents
Note 1. Nature of Operations and Basis of Presentation
Matrix Laboratories Limited ("Matrix", formerly known as Herren Drugs) was incorporated in India on November 29, 1984 and its equity shares are listed on the Bombay and National Stock Exchanges in India.
Matrix is engaged in the development, manufacture and marketing of generic and proprietary pharmaceuticals  primarily active pharmaceutical ingredients (or "APIs"), finished drug formulations ("FDFs"), other generic drugs and medical supplies. The principal markets for these products are pharmaceutical wholesalers and distributors, drug manufacturers and institutions within India, Europe and the United States of America ("USA").
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the USA ("US GAAP") which differ in material respects from the consolidated financial statements of Matrix prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in India, in accordance with applicable statutory requirements. Matrix and its consolidated subsidiaries are hereinafter referred to as the "Company".
Matrix has adopted the United States Dollar ("USD" or "$") as its reporting currency. The functional currency financial statements are translated into USD using the year end rates for the balance sheet accounts and a monthly weighted average exchange rate for the respective periods for revenue, expense and cash flow items. The gains or losses resulting from such translation are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of shareholders' equity.
During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, Matrix acquired equity interests in the following companies:
 
See Note 3, Business Combinations, for further details.
The Company's fiscal year ends on March 31. All references to fiscal year shall mean the 12 months ended March 31.
Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Matrix Laboratories Limited and those of its subsidiaries over which control is exercised through majority ownership of voting shares and / or other means, including, but not limited to, the possession of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of entities. In situations in which Matrix has less than 100% but greater than 50% of ownership in entities, such entities are consolidated and minority interests are also recorded. All inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The Company also evaluates whether or not it has variable interests in variable interest entities for which it is the primary beneficiary. To the extent that the Company is the primary beneficiary in variable interest entities, it consolidates such entities.
Principles of Consolidation.
Table of Contents
Investments in business entities in which Matrix has the ability to exert significant influence over operating and financial policies (generally 20% to 50% ownership) and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, investments are initially recorded at cost and are adjusted for dividends, stock based compensation, distributed and undistributed earnings and losses, and additional investments. Any goodwill arising from differences between the cost of the investment and the fair value of the underlying equity in net assets of the entities is not recorded separately in the financial statements. Equity method investments are periodically reviewed for other-than-temporary declines in carrying value.
Investment in Affiliates.
The Company accounts for acquired businesses using the purchase method of accounting, which requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. The cost to acquire a business comprises of cash paid, the fair value of shares issued, amounts that are contingently payable and amounts payable on the basis of earn-out arrangements, deferred consideration and transaction costs. The cost is allocated to the fair value of the underlying net assets, including pre-acquisition contingencies, of the acquired business in proportion to their respective fair values. The fair value of shares issued as a part of the purchase consideration is determined based on an average of the closing share prices on the date of announcement of the acquisition and two days before and after the announcement date. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Business Combinations.
Amounts allocated to acquired in-process research and development ("IPR&D") are expensed at the date of acquisition as the IPR&D had not reached technological feasibility, not received regulatory approval and do not have any alternative uses.
The judgments made in determining the estimated fair values assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially impact the Company's results of operations. Accordingly, for significant items, the Company typically obtains assistance from third party valuation specialists and has a 12 month period from the date of acquisition in which to determine the fair values and allocate the purchase price. Useful lives are determined based on the expected future period of benefit of the asset, which considers various characteristics of the asset, including projected cash flows. The Company reviews goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise.
Contingent consideration including consideration that is payable on maintaining or achieving specified earnings levels in future periods is recorded as an additional cost of the acquired entity when the contingency is resolved and consideration is issued or becomes issuable.
In cases where a part of the agreed purchase consideration is payable in future, the discounted present value of such consideration is included in the cost of acquisition and recorded as a liability. Where such future amounts payable do not carry any interest rate or an interest rate which does not approximate the Company's incremental borrowing rate for the relevant period, interest is imputed on such amounts using the incremental borrowing rate. No discounting is done in cases where the future consideration payable includes interest payable at a stated interest rate which approximates the Company's incremental cost of borrowing for the relevant period. The interest accrued on such amounts is recorded as an expense in the statement of operations.
The functional currency of Matrix Laboratories Limited is the Indian Rupee (Rs.). The translation of the functional currencies of Matrix's subsidiaries outside of India into Indian Rupees is performed for balance sheet accounts using the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and for revenue, expense and cash flow items using an appropriate monthly weighted average exchange rate for the respective periods. The gains or losses resulting from such translation are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of shareholders' equity.
Functional Currency Translation.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange prevailing on the balance sheet date. The resultant exchange gains and losses are included in the consolidated statements of operations.
Table of Contents
The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with US GAAP, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Key areas that require estimates and assumptions include valuation of assets, including intangible assets and liabilities acquired in business combinations, recoverability of long-lived assets including goodwill, assets and obligations included in employee benefit plans, accounting for income taxes and contingencies. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates.
Use of Estimates.
Cash is comprised of cash in hand and cash at bank, which are unrestricted as to their use. Cash equivalents are comprised of highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase.
Cash and Cash Equivalents.
Restricted cash is comprised of margin money deposits for working capital facilities and balances in bank accounts for Matrix's dividends payable.
Restricted cash.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market value, with cost determined by the first-in, first-out or weighted average method. Allowances for potentially obsolete or slow-moving inventory are established based on our analysis of inventory levels, historical obsolescence and future sales forecasts.
Inventories.
Short term investments are comprised of units of open ended mutual funds and are recorded at fair value based on quoted market prices. Net gains or losses on sale of short term investments are computed on a specific security basis and are included in other income when such gains / (losses) are realized.
Short term investments.
Accounts receivable are stated net of the allowance for doubtful accounts. The Company establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts primarily based on an analysis of individual customers, the aging of the accounts receivable balances and historical write-off experience.
Accounts receivable.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is computed and recorded on a straight-line basis over the assets' estimated economic useful lives. Depreciation is included in cost of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses in the consolidated statements of operations. The useful lives adopted by the Company are:
Property, Plant and Equipment.
The assets' residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising from retirement or disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognized in the consolidated statement of operations on the date of retirement or disposal.
Costs of additions and substantial improvements to property, plant and equipment are capitalized. The costs of repairs and maintenance are charged to operating expenses.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of Matrix's share of net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or affiliate at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is disclosed separately. Goodwill on accounting of jointly controlled entities or entities in which Matrix exercises significant influence is included in investments in affiliates. Goodwill is stated at cost less impairment losses, if any.
Goodwill.
Table of Contents
On April 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 142, , ("SFAS No. 142") which provides that goodwill acquired in a purchase business combination should not be amortized and is subject to an annual impairment test. SFAS No. 142 requires that goodwill and indefinite-lived assets be allocated to the reporting unit level. The goodwill impairment test under SFAS No. 142 is performed in two steps. The first step of the impairment test, used to identify potential impairment, compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered impaired and step two of the impairment test is performed. The second step of the impairment test quantifies the amount of the impairment loss by comparing the carrying amount of the goodwill to its implied fair value. An impairment loss is recorded to the extent the carrying amount of the goodwill exceeds its implied fair value.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Intangible assets are acquired individually, which include patents and drug master files ("DMFs"), or through business combinations, which comprise of developed products, trade names, supply agreements, customer relationships and maintenance contracts which are capitalized at Matrix's share of respective fair values on the date of acquisition and are stated at cost less accumulated amortization. The methodology used for valuation of these intangibles is as follows:
Intangible Assets:
Amortization of intangible assets is included in the cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of operations.
The Company periodically reviews the original estimated useful lives of intangible assets and makes adjustments when events indicate that a shorter life is appropriate.
The Company reviews the carrying value of its long-term assets which include property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with definite lives for impairment whenever events and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable from the estimated future cash flows expected to result from its use and eventual disposition. In cases where undiscounted expected future cash flows are less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized equal to an amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of assets.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets.
The Company has a financing arrangement for the sale of its accounts receivable with commercial banks. The commercial banks purchase the receivables at a discount and the Company records the proceeds as short-term borrowings. Upon maturity of the bill and receipt of funds, the short-term borrowings are reversed. As the banks have recourse on the bills sold, the bills are included under accounts receivables on the consolidated financial statements.
Short-term borrowings.
Table of Contents
Employee Benefits.
The Company recognizes revenue for product sales upon delivery when title and risk of loss of products are transferred to its customers and when provisions for estimates including discounts, rebates and returns are reasonably determinable, and when the following criteria are met:
Revenue Recognition.
Revenues from the installation of medical equipment and maintenance services are recognized when such services are rendered.
Consistent with industry practice, the Company maintains a return policy that allows customers to return products within a specified period. The Company's estimate for the provision for returns is based upon historical experience and actual returns.
The Company periodically enters into various types of revenue arrangements with third parties, including agreements for the sale or license of product rights or technology, research and development arrangements and supply agreements. These agreements may include the receipt of upfront and milestone payments, royalties, and payment for contract manufacturing and other services. The Company recognizes all non-refundable payments as revenue in accordance with the guidance provided in the Securities and Exchange Commission's ("SEC") Staff
Table of Contents
Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") No. 104, , and Emerging Issue Task Force ("EITF") No. 00-21, .
Revenue Recognition
Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables
Revenue from multiple element arrangements which usually involve a combination of (a) sale of products, (b) research and development arrangements and (c) supply or license agreements, is recognized in accordance with EITF 00-21. In case of arrangements where there is a right of return available to the customer, all revenue is deferred until the right of return expires. In cases where there are no rights of return, any upfront fees received is deferred and recognized over the term of the arrangement.
The Company's consolidated net revenues are generated in the following therapeutic categories:
 
Research and development expenses, which comprise of the cost of materials used for research and development, salary of employees working on research and development, depreciation on assets used for research and development and other expenses like rent, consultancy, maintenance etc., are expensed in the consolidated statement of operations as incurred.
Research and Development.
The Company periodically enters into co-development arrangements with third parties. These agreements may include the payment of upfront and milestone payments for development services. The Company expenses all payments for development in the period the development activity is performed. During fiscal 2006 such payments amounted to $ 1,905.
Business promotion costs are expensed as incurred and amounted to $ 492 and $ 477 in fiscal years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and are included under selling, general and administrative expenses.
Business Promotion Costs.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 include shipping and handling costs of $ 1,452 and $ 1,000, respectively.
Shipping and Handling Costs.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences between the carrying amount of existing assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax bases and operating loss carry-forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in the statement of operations in the period in which such change is enacted. Based on management's assessment, the measure of deferred tax assets is reduced, if necessary, by a valuation allowance for any tax benefits for which it is more likely than not that some portion or all of such benefits will not be realized. Deferred taxes are not provided on the undistributed earnings of subsidiaries where it is expected that the earnings of the foreign subsidiary will be permanently reinvested. Under the Indian Income tax act, the Company is entitled to certain tax holidays and incentives. No deferred taxes are recognized for temporary differences that reverse during the period of such tax holidays to the extent of the income earned during this period on which the company is not liable to pay taxes.
Income Taxes.
Table of Contents
The Company makes provisions for potential tax liabilities arising from uncertain tax positions if it is probable that the position will not be sustained and the amount of potential loss can be estimated.
On January 22, 2005, Matrix's Board of Directors approved a five-for-one Equity share split. The par value of each Rs.10 per share was reduced to Rs.2 per share and the number of shares was increased from 14,968,321 to 74,841,605. On the same day Matrix declared a one-for-one share dividend. A total of 74,841,605 shares were issued. In accordance with the Companies Act of India an amount of $ 3,424, being the par value of the shares issued as share dividend was transferred from Additional Paid-in Capital to Equity share account. The record date for the share split and dividend was January 20, 2005. The Equity share accounts, all share data and earnings per share data in these consolidated financial statements have been adjusted retroactively to give effect to the share split and dividend for all periods presented.
Share Split and Share dividend.
Basic earnings per equity share are computed by dividing net (loss) income by the weighted average equity shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per equity share is computed using the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period adjusted for the dilutive effect of stock options, using the treasury stock method except where the results would be anti-dilutive. (see Note 18).
Earnings per equity Share.
A reconciliation of basic and diluted earnings per equity share is as follows:
 
Matrix accounts for its stock option plans under the intrinsic-value-based method. The following table illustrates the effect on net earnings and earnings per share if Matrix had applied the fair value recognition provisions to stock-based employee compensation:
Stock Options.
 
Table of Contents
The Company is involved in various patents, product liability and, commercial litigation and claims, government investigations and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of its business (see Note 22). The Company assesses the need to accrue a liability for such contingencies and record a reserve when it determines that a loss related to a matter is both probable and reasonably estimable. Because litigation and other contingencies are inherently unpredictable, the Company's assessment can involve judgments about future events.
Contingencies.
The Company enters into derivative instruments, including foreign currency forward contracts, to manage foreign currency exposures related to its foreign currency denominated debt instruments.
Derivative financial instruments.
All of the Company's derivative contracts do not meet the requirements for hedge accounting and are accounted for at fair value at each period, recognizing any gain or loss in the consolidated statement of operations. Market values of the Company's foreign currency derivative instruments are determined based on quoted market prices, traded exchange market prices or broker quotes and represent the estimated amounts that the Company would pay or receive to terminate the contracts.
Embedded derivatives that possess economic characteristics and risks that are not clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract are separated from the host contract, and carried at fair value.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to credit risk consist principally of interest-bearing investments and accounts receivable.
Concentrations of Credit Risk.
The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and generally does not require collateral. Approximately 72% of the accounts receivable represents amounts due from eight customers at March 31, 2005. There are no individual customers who accounted for more than 10% of the accounts receivable for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006.
In November 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 151 ("SFAS 151"), . SFAS No. 151 amends and clarifies financial accounting and reporting for inventory costs. SFAS No. 151 is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005 or April 1, 2006 for the Company. The Company does not believe the impact of adoption of SFAS No. 151 on its consolidated financial statements will be significant.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements.
Inventory costs
Amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No.43, Chapter 4 on Inventory Costs
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R), ("SFAS No. 123(R)")SFAS No. 123(R) establishes standards for the accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods and services. Under SFAS No. 123(R), companies will no longer be able to account for share-based compensation transactions using the intrinsic method in accordance with APB No. 25. Instead, companies will be required to account for such transactions using a fair-value method and to recognize compensation expense over the period during which an employee is required to provide services in exchange for the award. The Company will adopt SFAS No. 123(R) effective April 1, 2006. Based on the amount of options outstanding for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered by the employee, The Company expects to incur costs of approximately $ 3,500, net of tax, in fiscal 2007 as a result of the adoption of this standard.
Share-Based Payment
.
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, ("SFAS No. 153"). SFAS No. 153 amends and clarifies the measurement of exchanges of non-monetary assets. The standard eliminates the exception from fair value measurement for non-monetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it with an exception for exchanges that do not have commercial substance. SFAS No. 153 is effective for exchanges of non-monetary assets that occur during the fiscal years
Exchanges of Non-monetary Assets an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29
Table of Contents
beginning after June 15, 2005 or April 1, 2006 for the Company. The Company does not believe the impact of adoption of SFAS No. 153 on its consolidated financial statements will be significant.
In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, ("SFAS No. 154"). SFAS No. 154 requires retrospective application to prior-period financial statements of changes in accounting principle, unless it is impracticable to determine either the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. SFAS No. 154 also redefines "restatement" as the revising of previously issued financial statements to reflect the correction of an error. This statement is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005 or April 1, 2006 for the Company. The Company does not currently believe that the adoption of SFAS No. 154 will have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
Accounting Changes and Error Corrections
In June 2006, FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, ("FIN 48"). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the entity's financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, . FIN 48 provides a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The interpretation also provides guidance on de-recognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006 or April 1, 2007 for the Company. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of FIN 48 would have on its consolidated financial statements.
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
Accounting for Income Taxes
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, ("SFAS No. 157"). SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 or April 1, 2008 for the Company. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of SFAS No. 157 on its consolidated financial statements.
Fair Value Measurements
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. No. 158, ("SFAS No. 158"). SFAS No. 158 requires companies to recognize the over-funded or under-funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan as an asset or liability in its statement of financial position. This statement is effective for financial statements as of the end of fiscal years ending after December 15, 2006 or for the year ending March 31, 2007 for the Company. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of SFAS No. 158 on the consolidated financial statements.
Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans
In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued SAB No. 108, ("SAB 108"). SAB 108 considers the effects of prior year misstatements when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements. It is effective for fiscal years ending after November 15, 2006 or for the year ending March 31, 2007 for the Company. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of SAB 108 on its consolidated financial statements.
Considering the effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements
Note 3. Business Combinations
(i) In February 2006, Matrix acquired 55% of the equity shares of Concord Biotech Limited ("Concord"), a limited liability company in India for $ 12,242 in cash (including directly related costs of acquisition amounting to $ 22), $ 89 non-compete fees and equity share warrants amounting to $ 627. As a part of the acquisition of Concord, Matrix subscribed to 200,000 partly paid equity shares of Concord for a total consideration of $ 1,345. Matrix paid $ 269 at the time of acquisition and the remaining amount is payable in two installments of $ 403 and $ 672 before March 31, 2007 and 2008, respectively. The present value of the consideration payable in future years amounting to $ 936 has been included in the purchase consideration stated above. The acquisition of Concord provided Matrix access to a research and development and manufacturing facility in the area of fermentation technology and a portfolio of products and patents.
Concord Biotech Limited.
Concord's results of operations are included from the period beginning February 14, 2006.
Table of Contents
(ii) In January 2006, Matrix acquired 57.5% of the outstanding equity shares of Mchem Pharma Group, a company operating in the Peoples' Republic of China, for $18,555 in cash (including directly related costs of acquisition amounting to $432). The acquisition gave Matrix access to anti-retroviral supplies and access to the Chinese market.
Mchem Pharma Group
.
Mchem Pharma Group's results of operations are included from the period beginning January 16, 2006.
(iii) In July 2005, Matrix acquired 22% of Equity shares in Docpharma NV, a Belgium based pharmaceutical and medical supply company operating in Europe. In September 2005 and November 2005, Matrix acquired the remaining 74% and 4%, respectively, shares of Docpharma NV. The total consideration for the three steps was paid in cash and amounted to $262,015 (including deferred consideration of $6,938 and directly related costs of acquisition amounting to $4,661). The primary objective of the acquisition was to achieve vertical integration of Matrix's generic drug operations and gain access to European markets.
Docpharma NV.
The investment was initially accounted for using the equity method of accounting for the period from July 8, 2005 to September 28, 2005. Matrix has consolidated Docpharma NV from September 29, 2005.
(iv) In October 2004, Matrix acquired 100% equity shares of Vera Laboratories Limited ("Vera Laboratories"), an Indian company, through an issuance of 291,213 Matrix shares (pre share split) valued at $9,406 , which was determined based on Matrix's average share price of Rs.1,414 (pre share split) on the date of announcement and two days before and after the announcement date. The acquisition gave Matrix access to FDA approved manufacturing facilities as well as a portfolio of products and patents.
Vera Laboratories Limited.
Vera Laboratories' results of operations are included from the period beginning October 1, 2004.
(v) In April 2003, Matrix acquired 100% equity shares of Vorin Laboratories Limited, which held 49% of the shares of Fine Drugs and Chemicals Limited ("FDC"), an Indian company. In October 2004, Matrix acquired the remaining 51% of the shares of FDC. The purchase consideration for the 51% acquisition was completed by issuing 128,238 shares of Matrix (pre share split) in exchange for the shares of FDC. The value of the shares issued was $4,142, which was determined, based on Matrix's average share price of Rs.1,414 (pre share split) on the date of announcement and two days before and after the announcement date. The acquisition of FDC provided Matrix access to additional manufacturing facilities.
Fine Drugs and Chemicals Limited.
Table of Contents
Matrix accounted for the investment in FDC using the equity method of accounting for the period from April 2003 until September 30, 2004. Matrix has consolidated FDC from October 1, 2004.
The assets and liabilities acquired as a result of above business combinations were recorded at fair values, with the excess of the purchase consideration over fair value of the net assets acquired recorded as goodwill. The following table summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition for the above business combinations.
The allocation of the purchase consideration is as follows:
Goodwill from the acquisition of Concord, Mchem Pharma Group, Vera Laboratories and FDC is allocated to the pharmaceutical reporting segment. For Docpharma NV, the goodwill is allocated to the pharmaceuticals and medical supplies reporting segments at $74,917 and $24,972 respectively.
Intangible assets acquired and the value assigned to each of these assets is as follows:
Table of Contents
The following unaudited pro forma consolidated summary of operations presents information of the Company as if the above acquisitions had occurred as at April 1, 2004. These pro forma results are for illustrative purposes. They do not purport to be indicative of the results of operations which actually would have resulted had the acquisition of the above mentioned entities occurred as of April 1, 2004 or the future results of operations of the combined entity.
Note 4  Investment in Affiliates
In September 2005, Matrix entered into a joint venture agreement with Aspen Corporation for Astrix Laboratories Limited ("Astrix") in which Matrix holds a 50% interest. Astrix produces APIs in India. As consideration for its 50% interest, Matrix contributed cash of $507 and a 50% interest in an API manufacturing facility located in India, know-how, licenses and intellectual property with a fair value of $36,510. Aspen contributed cash of $37,017 for its 50% interest in Astrix. Subsequent to the initial contribution of assets and cash, Astrix purchased the remaining 50% interest in the API manufacturing facility and certain intellectual property for $36,510 from Matrix resulting in a gain on sale of property, plant and equipment amounting to $1,195 and the sale of intangibles amounting to $24,137. Matrix accounts for its contribution of assets to Astrix at its historical book value from September 2005.
Also in September 2005 and in conjunction with the Astrix transaction, Matrix contributed $22,561 to acquire a 50% interest in Fine Chemicals Corporation ("FCC"), a company previously 100% owned by Aspen. FCC produces anti-viral APIs in the Republic of South Africa. Matrix was obliged to pay a further sum to be determined on the finalization of the Earnings Before Interest Tax Depreciation and Amortization ("EBITDA") for the year ending on June 30, 2007, subject to a minimum of $4,163 . Matrix assumed 50% of such amount and its present value amounting to $3,796 has been included in the purchase consideration for FCC.
Matrix accounts for its share in the profits / (losses) of FCC and in Astrix in accordance with the equity method of accounting.
Note 5. Accounts receivable, net
Table of Contents
The following table sets forth the changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts:
The Company's allowance for doubtful accounts is included in selling, general and administrative expenses.
Note 6. Inventories
Note 7. Prepaid expenses and other current assets
Note 8. Property, plant and equipment, net
Depreciation is included as part of cost of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses in the consolidated statements of operations.
Certain assets are pledged as collateral security for the borrowings of the Company. See Note 12 for details.
Table of Contents
Note 9. Intangible Assets
Intangible assets, excluding goodwill, consist of the following components:
Amortization expense for fiscal years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 was $3,558 and $2,473, respectively. The estimated amortization expenses for each of the five succeeding fiscal years are as follows:
Note 10. Goodwill
Table of Contents
Note 11. Investment in Affiliates
Investment in affiliates comprise of the following as of March 31, 2006:
Note 12. Short-term borrowings
Working Capital facilities are availed from State Bank of India, Andhra Bank, The Bank of Nova Scotia, ABN Amro Bank, UTI Bank, HDFC Bank, ING, Fortis, KBC Bank Agricultural Bank of China, Import and Export Bank of China and Industrial and Commercial bank of China and are secured by first charge on the current assets and a second charge on property, plant and equipment. Working capital facilities from Export Import Bank of India are secured by first charge on property, plant and equipment. The working capital facilities carry interest rates of 4 to 14%.
Note 13. Other current liabilities
Note 14. Long-Term Debt
A summary of long-term debt at March 31, 2006 is as follows:
Table of Contents
The long term loans comprise of:
Facility A  Loan of Euro 82.50 million repayable in July 2006 (see Note 23) Facility B  Loan of Euro 82.50 million repayable during 2008-11 Other long-term debts  US$8,785 repayable during 2007-10
The Company's effective interest rate for Euro loan is Euro Interbank Offered Rate (Euribor) + 100 basis points for Facility A of Euro 82.50 million and Euribor + 129 basis points for Facility B of Euro 82.50 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. Facility A was originally repayable in July 2006 but was extended to January 2007 and then further extended by six months to July 2007(see Note 23). The Company did not have any long-term debt outstanding during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005.
The Euro denominated loans are collateralized by the pledge of Docpharma NV shares held by Matrix Laboratories NV and shares of Matrix Laboratories NV held by Matrix Laboratories B.V. The loan is further collateralized by corporate guarantee by Matrix to ABN Amro Bank NV on behalf of Matrix Laboratories NV.
The fair value of the debt approximates its carrying value as the borrowing rate of the Company had not changed significantly at March 31, 2006 from its origination date.
Principal maturities of the long term debt for the next five years and thereafter, as of March 31, 2006, are as follows:
The total interest expense incurred during the period is $2,139 and $ Nil for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
The secured long-term loan agreements require Matrix and its various subsidiaries to comply with certain covenants, under which the approval of the lenders is required for certain transactions which include incurring additional indebtedness or guarantees; declaration or payment of dividends; entering into sale and leaseback transactions; sale of assets; engaging in transactions with affiliates; entering into acquisitions or mergers, joint ventures, consolidations or sales of the Company's assets; and entering into new lines of business. The covenants also prescribe certain maximum ratios of debt to earnings or equity ratios and minimum levels of interest and debt service coverage ratios.
Unused lines of credit aggregating $6,651 as of March 31, 2006 are immediately available and carry an interest rate of 3 to 8%.
Unused lines of credit.
Note 15. Other Long-Term Obligations
Table of Contents
Note 16. Income Taxes
Income taxes consist of the following components:
Temporary differences and carry forwards that result in the deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
The Company has $5,735 and $0 in tax loss carry forwards as of March 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively; realization of which is dependent on the Company generating sufficient taxable income prior to the expiration of the tax loss carry forwards.
Matrix benefits from certain tax incentives provided to the pharmaceutical industry under Indian income tax laws for 100% Export Oriented Units. These incentives provide a deduction from taxable income of an amount equal to 100% of profits proportionate to export turnover for ten assessment years commencing from the assessment year when the commercial production starts. This incentive is available for Matrix up to March 31, 2009. Matrix also benefits from tax incentives provided for research and development units approved by specified authority under the Indian income tax laws. Pursuant to this incentive, a weighted deduction at 150% of the research and development expenses incurred is allowed. This incentive can be availed up to March 31, 2007.
Table of Contents
Provisions for tax loss contingencies are made when it is probable that the Company's tax position will not be sustained and the amount of loss can be reliably estimated.
A reconciliation of the statutory tax rate to the effective tax rate is as follows:
Note 17. Dividends and equity shares transactions
Dividends
Final dividends proposed by the Board of Directors are payable when formally declared by the shareholders, who have the right to decrease but not increase the amount of the dividend recommended by the Board of Directors. Interim dividends are declared by the Board of Directors without the need for shareholders' approval.
Dividends payable to equity shareholders are based on the net income available for distribution as reported in Matrix's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with Indian GAAP. Dividends can only be declared and paid in Indian Rupees and/or converted into foreign currency for an equivalent amount in cases where dividend is permitted to be repatriated.
Under the Indian Companies Act, dividends may be paid out of the profits of a company in the year in which the dividend is declared or out of the undistributed profits of previous fiscal years. Before declaring a dividend greater than 10% of the par value of its equity shares, a company is required to transfer to its reserves a minimum percentage of its profits for that year, ranging from 2.5% to 10%, depending on the dividend percentage to be declared in such year. Dividends can be distributed out of the general reserve in case of a loss or inadequacy of current distributable profits. Presently, Matrix is required to pay dividend tax on the total amount of the dividend declared, distributed or paid at the specified tax rate including surcharge.
Equity shares transactions
During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, Matrix issued 3,500,000 equity shares for $ 17,396 to the promoters of Docpharma NV. In addition 394,330 Stock options were exercised during the period for $ 1,272.
During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005, Matrix issued 11,250,000 Equity shares to strategic financial investors for $ 74,980 (net of issuance cost). In addition, 2,102,175 shares were issued as consideration for business combinations (see Note 3).
Table of Contents
Note 18. Stock Option Plan
Matrix has two stock option plans, 2004 (the "2004 Plan") and (the "2006 Plan"). Under the 2004 Plan and 2006 Plan, five million and one million equity shares, respectively, are reserved for issuance to the employees of Matrix, excluding promoters and certain directors with holdings of over 10% of outstanding equity shares.
Employee Stock Option Plan
Employee Stock Option Plan 2006
The options vest equally over a four year period after they are granted and are exercisable for five years from the date of vesting. Options are granted at a discount to the average weekly High and Low closing prices of Matrix equity shares, as quoted on the National Stock Exchange of India during the six month period prior to the date of grant of the option.
In February 2006, July 2005 and February 2005, Matrix granted 666,000, 1,088,000 and 3,000,000 options, respectively, as permitted under the 2004 Plan. The compensation expense arising from the issuance of options is recognized using the Intrinsic value method as per APB 25 over a period of four years using the graded vesting method.
The following table summarizes stock option activity:
The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at March 31, 2006:
 
Table of Contents
The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of options granted in fiscal years ended March 31, using the Black-Scholes option pricing model are as follows:
Pro forma disclosure of net income and earnings per share had Matrix applied the fair value recognition provisions to stock-based compensation using the above assumptions is presented in Note 2.
Total compensation cost recognized amounted to $ 1,306 and $ 145 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Out of this cost of sales include an amount of $ 605 and $ 62 and Research and Development expenses include an amount of $ 294 and $ 29 for the fiscal years ended on March 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, with the balance being included in selling, general and administration expenses in the consolidated statement of operations.
Note 19. Patent settlement and Other Income
During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005, a suit was filed against a United Kingdom based generics company with whom Matrix has entered into a development and supply arrangementMatrix entered into a settlement with the other pharmaceutical company in February 2005. Under the settlement, the other pharmaceutical company withdrew its patent challenge and Matrix cancelled its contracts to sell the product. As consideration for the settlement, Matrix received a non-refundable payment of $ 22,145 upon cancellation of the contracts in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, which is recorded as proceeds from patent settlement.
.
Other income also includes gain on sale of property, plant and equipment amounting to $ 1,195 (see Note 4), dividends received on investments in mutual funds, gain on sale of assets and gain/ (loss) on exchange fluctuation.
Note 20. Related party transactions
Matrix routinely enters into transactions with certain affiliates in the ordinary course of business. Transactions with its own subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
The following represent the significant transactions between Matrix and such affiliates:
Fiscal year ended March 31, 2006.
Table of Contents
The balances with related parties have been included in the respective line items in the financial statements. The details of these balances are as follows:
Sale of know-how, DMF's and patent, sale of property, plant and equipment, transfer of current assets and liabilities and the other assets mainly relate to assets contributed by Matrix to Astrix (see Note 4 for details).
For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005, there are no related party transactions.
Note 21. Segment Information
The Chief Operating Decision Maker evaluates the Company's performance and allocates resources based on an analysis of various performance indicators along two distinct product lines - pharmaceuticals and medical supplies. The accounting principles used in the preparation of the financial statements are consistently applied to record revenue and expenditure in individual segments, and are as set out in the summary of significant accounting policies.
Business segments
The Company has two business segments:
Pharmaceuticals: comprising of the development, manufacture and /or marketing of generic and proprietary pharmaceuticals and FDFs, which are primarily APIs & FDFs.
Table of Contents
Medical Supplies: comprising of the sale of medical products and equipment along with installation and maintenance services. The medical supplies business segment was acquired through the acquisition of Docpharma NV as on September 28, 2005. Matrix did not have any medical supplies business for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005.
Information on geographic activity is provided as follows:
Note 22. Commitments and contingencies
. Matrix leases certain real property under various operating lease arrangements that expire over 12 months. These leases generally provide Matrix with the option to renew the lease at the end of the lease term. Matrix also entered into agreements to lease vehicles for use by certain key employees which are typically 24 to 36 months. For fiscal years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, Matrix made lease payments of $ 74 and $ 72, respectively.
Operating leases
Contractual commitments for capital expenditure pending execution were $ 6,673 and $ 5,098 as of March 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Contractual commitments for capital expenditures are relating to purchase property and equipment.
Capital commitments.
The Company has outstanding financial/performance bank guarantees of $ 27,149 and $ 807 as of March 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The bank guarantees are essentially provided to the Government of India for customs duties and pollution control.
Guarantees.
The Company is involved in tax and legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. The Company periodically assesses its liabilities and contingencies in connection with these matters based upon the latest information available. As additional information becomes available, the Company adjusts its assessment and estimates of such liabilities accordingly.
Contingent liabilities.
Based on a review of the latest information available, management believes that the ultimate liability in connection with pending tax and legal proceedings, claims and litigation will not have a material effect on the
Table of Contents
Company's results of operations, cash flows or financial position, with the possible exception of the matters described below.
During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2004, Docpharma NV purchased a medical supply company that sold certain products, which contained a manufacturer's warranty, to hospitals. Docpharma has since discontinued sales of the products. As it is not possible to determine with any degree of certainty any potential liability associated with these warranties, no amounts have been recorded in the Company's consolidated financial statements.
(i) Product liability
.
In addition, the Dutch regulatory agency has begun a preliminary investigation related to the validity of the labeling of the product by the former medical supply company as having undergone a regulatory certification process, although no official approval had been obtained. As it is not possible to determine with any degree of certainty any potential liability associated with these warranties, no amounts have been recorded in the Company's consolidated financial statements.
The Company is subject to certain environmental, health and safety requirements and is exposed to differing degrees of liabilities, compliance costs, and cleanup requirements arising from its past and current activities at various international locations. The laws and regulations applicable to such activities differ from country to country. The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with all material environmental, health and safety requirements in each country where it operates. While the ultimate outcome of the foregoing environmental matters is uncertain, after consultation with legal counsel, management does not believe the resolution of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the Company's long-term business, financial condition or results of operations.
(ii)
For certain prior acquisitions by Docpharma NV in which contingent consideration had been provided, a deposit of Euros 2.5 million ($ 3,025) had been placed in an escrow account. If the earnings objectives are not met, the deposit will be returned to Docpharma NV. Docpharma NV is obligated to pay certain amounts in addition to the deposit provided, which is based on future earnings of the investee companies. The ultimate amount of such earnings will be determined once the earnings of the relevant year are finalized. The amounts that could be payable under the contingent consideration cover the periods through December 31, 2008.
Note 23. Subsequent events
Matrix and Mylan Laboratories, a U.S. based company entered into an agreement whereby Mylan Laboratories will acquire up to approximately 71.5% of shares in Matrix for Rs.306 per share, for a total purchase price of approximately $740,000.
The Euro 82.50 million ($ 99,821) term loan that was scheduled to mature in July 2006 was additionally extended to January 7, 2007. In December 2006 the facility was extended for a further six months with a maturity date of July 7, 2007.
Table of Contents
In June 2006, Matrix's Board of Directors declared a dividend of $ 4,145 (Rs.1.20 per share) for the fiscal year ended on March 31, 2006. The dividend was paid on September 29, 2006.
The Company carried out an impairment test as of September 30, 2006, and is expected to recognize an impairment charge related to the recorded goodwill on the Medical Supplies segment in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2007. The amount of such impairment is expected to be approximately $ 25,000.
Table of Contents
Matrix Laboratories Limited Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (In USD thousands, except shares and per share data or as otherwise stated)
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Table of Contents
Matrix Laboratories Limited Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (In USD thousands, except shares and per share data or as otherwise stated)
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Table of Contents
Matrix Laboratories Limited
(In USD thousands, except shares and per share data or as otherwise stated)
Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements Of Changes In Shareholders' Equity
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Table of Contents
Matrix Laboratories Limited Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (In USD thousands, except shares and per share data or as otherwise stated)
Supplementary cash flow information
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Table of Contents
Matrix Laboratories Limited Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements For the nine month periods ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 (In USD thousands, except shares and per share data or as otherwise stated)
Note 1. Nature of Operations and Basis of Presentation
Matrix Laboratories Limited ("Matrix", formerly known as Herren Drugs) was incorporated in India on November 29, 1984 and its equity shares are listed on the Bombay and National Stock Exchanges in India.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements (interim financial statements) of Matrix Laboratories Limited and its subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to as the "Company") contain all adjustments (consisting of only normal recurring adjustments) necessary to present fairly the interim results of operations, financial position and cash flows for the periods presented. These interim financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the USA ("US GAAP") which differ in material respects from the consolidated financial statements of Matrix prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in India in accordance with applicable statutory requirements. Certain footnotes and other financial information included in the annual audited consolidated financial statements were condensed or omitted.
The statement of operations for the nine months ended December 2005 includes three months operations of Docpharma, a 100% subsidiary acquired by Matrix in September 2005. The statement of operations for the period ended December 2006 includes nine months operations of Docpharma and other subsidiaries and equity affiliates acquired during the period up to March 2006.
Matrix has adopted the US Dollar as its reporting currency. The functional currency financial statements are translated into USD using the period ended rates prevailing at the respective balance sheet dates for the balance sheet accounts and a monthly weighted average exchange rate for the respective periods for revenue, expense and cash flow items. The gains or losses resulting from such translation are reported in other accumulated other comprehensive income of shareholders' equity.
The Company's fiscal year ends on March 31.
Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
The preparation of the financial statements requires that the Company make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
With the exception of adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment and the other standards noted below on April 1, 2006, the accounting policies and methodologies for the nine months ended December 31, 2006 are consistent with those discussed in the financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006.
Basic earnings per equity share are computed by dividing net loss by the weighted average equity shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per equity share is computed using the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period adjusted for the dilutive effect of stock options, using the treasury stock method except where the results would be anti-dilutive.
Loss per Equity Share.
A reconciliation of basic and diluted earnings per equity share is as follows:
 
Matrix adopted SFAS 123R effective April 1, 2006. SFAS 123R requires the recognition of the fair value of stock-based compensation in net earnings. Prior to April 1, 2006, Matrix accounted for its stock options using the intrinsic value method of accounting provided under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees ("APB 25"), and related Interpretations.
Stock Options.
Matrix adopted the provisions of SFAS 123R, using the modified prospective transition method. Under this method, compensation cost recognized in the nine months ended December 31, 2006 includes: (a) compensation cost for all stock options granted prior to April 1, 2006, but for which the requisite service period had not been completed as of April 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value, estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS 123, Accounting for Share Based Compensation ("SFAS 123") and (b) compensation cost for stock options granted subsequent to April 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123R. Results for prior periods have not been restated.
Table of Contents
The pro forma effect of recognizing the estimated fair value of stock-based employee compensation for the nine months ended December 31, 2005 is as follows:
 
The following table summarises the stock option activity during the nine months ended December 31, 2006:
As a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R, Matrix recognized stock-based compensation expense of $ 2,433, for the nine months ended December 31, 2006. The impact of recognizing the compensation expense related to SFAS 123R on basic and diluted earnings per share for the nine months ended December 31, 2006, was $ (0.01) per equity share.
With respect to options granted under Matrix's stock-based compensation plan, the fair value of each option grant was estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The Black-Scholes model utilizes assumptions related to volatility, the risk-free interest rate, the dividend yield and employee exercise behaviour. Expected volatilities utilized in the model are based mainly on the historical volatility of Matrix's stock price and other factors. The risk-free interest rate is derived from the interest rate applicable for maturity equal to the expected life of the options based on the zero coupon yield curve for Government securities. The model incorporates exercise and post-vesting forfeiture assumptions based on an analysis of historical data. The expected lives of the grants are derived from historical and other factors.
The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of options granted during the nine months ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 , using the Black-Scholes option pricing model are as follows:
Adoption of new accounting standards
In November 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 151 Inventory costs ("SFAS 151"), Amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No.43, Chapter 4 on Inventory Costs. SFAS No. 151 amends and clarifies financial accounting and reporting for inventory costs. SFAS No. 151 is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005 or April 1, 2006 for the Company. The adoption of SFAS No. 151 did not have any material impact on the condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company.
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, Exchanges of Non-monetary Assets an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29 ("SFAS No. 153"). SFAS No. 153 amends and clarifies the measurement of exchanges of non-monetary assets. The standard eliminates the exception from fair value measurement for non-monetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it with an exception for exchanges that do not have commercial substance. SFAS No. 153 is effective for exchanges of non-monetary assets that occur during the fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005 or April 1, 2006 for the Company. The adoption of SFAS No. 153 did not have any material impact on the condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company.
In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections ("SFAS No. 154"). SFAS No.154 requires retrospective application to prior-period financial statements of changes in accounting principle, unless it is impracticable to determine either the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. SFAS No. 154 also redefines "restatement" as the revising of previously issued financial statements to reflect the correction of an error. This statement is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005 or April 1, 2006 for the Company. The adoption of SFAS No. 154 did not have any material impact on the condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company.
Table of Contents
Note 3. Inventories
Note 4. Accounts receivable, net
The following table sets forth the changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts:
Changes in the Company's allowance for doubtful accounts is included in selling, general and administrative expenses.
Note 5. Intangible Assets
Intangible assets, excluding goodwill, consist of the following components:
Amortization expense for nine months ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 was $ 14,062 and $ 5,563 respectively.
Note 6. Goodwill
As a result of one of the Company's suppliers being acquired, the goodwill in the Medical Products segment at Docpharma was determined to have been impaired.
Table of Contents
Note 7. Short-term borrowings
Working Capital facilities are availed from State Bank of India, Andhra Bank, The Bank of Nova Scotia, ABN Amro Bank, UTI Bank, HDFC Bank, ING, Fortis, KBC Bank Agricultural Bank of China, Import and Export Bank of China and Industrial and Commercial bank of China and are secured by first charge on the current assets and a second charge on property, plant and equipment. Working capital facilities from Export Import Bank of India are secured by first charge on property, plant and equipment. The working capital facilities carry interest rates of 4 to 14%.
Note 8. Long-Term Debt
A summary of long term debt as of December 31, 2006 is as follows:
The long term debt as of December 31, 2006 includes the following:
Facility A loan of Euro 82.50 million repayable on July 7, 2007 Facility B loan of Euro 82.50 million repayable during 2008-11 Other long term debt of $ 9,216 repayable during 2008-11.
The Company's effective interest rate for Euro loan is Euro Interbank Offered Rate (Euribor) + 100 basis points for Facility A of Euro 82.50 million and Euribor + 129 basis points for Facility B of Euro 82.50 million for the period ended December 31, 2006. Facility A was originally repayable in July 2006 but was extended to January 2007 and then further extended by six months to July 2007.
The Euro denominated loans are collateralized by the pledge of Docpharma NV shares held by Matrix Laboratories NV and shares of Matrix Laboratories NV held by Matrix Laboratories B.V. The loan is further collateralized by corporate guarantee by Matrix to ABN Amro Bank NV on behalf of Matrix Laboratories NV.
The fair value of the debt approximates its carrying value at December 31, 2006 and March 31, 2006.
Principal maturities of the long term debt for the next five years and thereafter, as of December 31 , are as follows:
The total interest expense incurred against the borrowings is $ 6,835 and $ 875 for the nine month periods ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
The secured long-term loan agreements require Matrix and its various subsidiaries to comply with certain covenants, under which the approval of the lenders is required for certain transactions which include incurring additional indebtedness or guarantees; declaration or payment of dividends; entering into sale and leaseback transactions; sale of assets; engaging in transactions with affiliates; entering into acquisitions or mergers, joint ventures, consolidations or sales of the Company's assets; and entering into new lines of business. The covenants also prescribe certain maximum ratios of debt to earnings or equity ratios and minimum levels of interest and debt service coverage ratios.
Unused lines of credit. Unused lines of credit aggregating $ 971 as of December 31, 2006 are immediately available and carry an interest rate of 3 to 8%.
Note 9. Patent settlement and Other Income
Income from patent settlement
During the period ended December 31, 2005, a suit was filed against a United Kingdom based generics company with whom Matrix has entered into a development and supply arrangement. Matrix entered into a settlement with the other pharmaceutical company in February 2005. Under the settlement, the other pharmaceutical company withdrew its patent challenge and Matrix cancelled its contracts to sell the product. As consideration for the settlement, Matrix received a non-refundable payment of $ 22,145 upon cancellation of the contracts in the period ended December 31, 2005, which is recorded as income from patent settlement.
Gain on sale of intangible assets
In September 2005, Matrix entered into a joint venture agreement with Aspen Corporation for Astrix Laboratories Limited ("Astrix") in which Matrix holds a 50% interest. Astrix produces APIs in India. As consideration for its 50% interest, Matrix contributed cash of $ 507 and a 50% interest in an API manufacturing facility located in India, know-how, licenses and intellectual property with a fair value of $ 36,510. Aspen contributed cash of $ 37,017 for its 50% interest in Astrix. Subsequent to the initial contribution of assets and cash, Astrix purchased the remaining 50% interest in the API manufacturing facility and certain intellectual property for $ 36,510 from Matrix resulting in a gain on sale of property, plant and equipment amounting to $ 1,177 and the sale of intangibles amounting to $ 22,557. Matrix accounts for its contribution of assets to Astrix at its historical book value from September 2005.
Table of Contents
Note 10. Related party transactions
Matrix routinely enters into transactions with certain affiliates in the ordinary course of business. Transactions with its own subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
The following represent the significant transactions between Matrix and such affiliates:
The balances with related parties have been included in the respective line items in the financial statements. The details of these balances are as follows:
 
Note 11. Segment Information
The segment information is as follows:
Note 12. Commitments and contingencies
The Company is involved in tax and legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. The Company periodically assesses its liabilities and contingencies in connection with these matters based upon the latest information available. As additional information becomes available, the Company adjusts its assessment and estimates of such liabilities accordingly. Based on a review of the latest information available, management believes that the ultimate liability in connection with pending tax and legal proceedings, claims and litigation will not have a material effect on the Company's results of operations, cash flows or financial position, with the possible exception of the matters described below.
Contingent liabilities.
During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2004, Docpharma NV purchased a medical supply company that sold certain products, which contained a manufacturer's warranty, to hospitals. Docpharma has since discontinued sales of the products. As it is not possible to determine with any degree of certainty any potential liability associated with these warranties, no amounts have been recorded in the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements. In addition, the Dutch regulatory agency has begun a preliminary investigation related to the validity of the labeling of the product by the former medical supply company as having undergone a regulatory certification process, although no official approval had been obtained. As it is not possible to determine with any degree of certainty any potential liability associated with these warranties, no amounts have been recorded in the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.
(i) Product liability
.
The Company is subject to certain environmental, health and safety requirements and is exposed to differing degrees of liabilities, compliance costs, and cleanup requirements arising from its past and current activities at various international locations. The laws and regulations applicable to such activities differ from country to country. The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with all material environmental, health and safety requirements in each country where it operates. While the ultimate outcome of the foregoing environmental matters is uncertain, after consultation with legal counsel, management does not believe the resolution of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the Company's long-term business, financial condition or results of operations.
(ii)
Matrix is obligated to pay certain amounts as contingent consideration based on the future earnings of certain investee companies. The ultimate amount of such earnings will be determined once the Earnings Before Interest Tax Depreciation and Amortization ("EBITDA") of the relevant year is formalized.
(iii) Contingent consideration.
For certain prior acquisitions by Docpharma NV in which contingent consideration had been provided, a deposit of Euros 2.5 million ($ 3,025) had been placed in an escrow account. If the earnings objectives are not met, the deposit will be returned to Docpharma NV. Docpharma NV is obligated to pay certain amounts in addition to the deposit provided, which is based on future earnings of the investee companies. The ultimate amount of such earnings will be determined once the earnings of the relevant year are finalized. The amounts that could be payable under the contingent consideration cover the periods through December 31, 2008.
As of December 31, 2006, the Company was involved with other lawsuits incidental to its business. Management believes that the ultimate outcome of these matters is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.
(iv) Other litigation
.
Note 13. Subsequent Events
Matrix and Mylan Laboratories Inc. ("Mylan"), a U.S. based company entered into an agreement whereby Mylan agreed to acquire approximately 71.5% of shares in Matrix for Rs.306 per share, for a total purchase price of approximately $ 740,000.
This transaction was completed on January 8, 2007.
Table of Contents
UNAUDITED CONDENSED COMBINED PRO FORMA FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
     The statements contained in this section may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act and Section 27A of the Securities Act. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by the words "believe", "expect", "anticipate", "intend", "estimate" and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based largely on management's expectations and are subject to a number of uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Neither Mylan nor Matrix undertake any obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements.
     The unaudited condensed combined pro forma statements of earnings are presented to show how Mylan might have looked had the acquisition of 71.5% of the voting share capital of Matrix occurred on April 1, 2005. The unaudited condensed combined pro forma balance sheet is presented to show how Mylan might have looked had the acquisition of 71.5% of the voting share capital of Matrix occurred on December 31, 2006. This pro forma information is based on, and should be read in conjunction with, the historical financial statements of Mylan for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006 included in our Form 10-K filed May 16, 2006 and for the nine months ended December 31, 2006 included in our Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2007 and those of Matrix, which are included elsewhere in this Form 8-K.
     The unaudited condensed combined pro forma statement of earnings for the twelve months ended March 31, 2006, combines information from the audited historical consolidated statement of earnings of Mylan and statement of operations for Matrix for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. The unaudited condensed combined pro forma statement of earnings for the nine months ended December 31, 2006, combines information from the unaudited historical condensed consolidated statement of earnings of Mylan and statement of operations for Matrix for the nine months ended December 31, 2006. The unaudited condensed combined pro forma balance sheet combines information from the unaudited historical condensed consolidated balance sheets of Mylan and Matrix as of December 31, 2006.
     The allocation of the purchase price as reflected in these pro forma condensed combined financial statements has been based upon preliminary estimates of the fair value of Mylan's 71.5% share of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the date of the acquisition. Management is currently assessing the fair values of the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed. This preliminary allocation of the purchase price is dependent upon certain estimates and assumptions, which are preliminary and have been made solely for the purpose of developing such pro forma condensed combined financial statements.
     A final determination of the fair value of Mylan's 71.5% of Matrix's assets and liabilities, will be based on the actual net tangible and intangible assets of Matrix that existed as of the date of completion of the acquisition and such valuations could change significantly upon the completion of further analyses and asset valuations from those used in the unaudited condensed combined pro forma financial statements presented below.
     The unaudited condensed combined pro forma financial statements were prepared using the assumptions described below and in the related notes. The historical consolidated and condensed consolidated financial information has been adjusted to give effect to pro forma events that are 1) directly attributable to the acquisition, 2) factually supportable, and 3) with respect to the statements of earnings, expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results. The unaudited condensed combined pro forma financial statements do not include liabilities resulting from strategic collaboration planning, nor do they include certain costs savings or operating synergies that may result from the acquisition. Amounts preliminarily allocated to goodwill may significantly decrease and amounts allocated to intangible assets with definite lives may increase significantly, which could result in a material increase in amortization expense related to acquired intangible assets. Therefore, the actual amounts recorded may differ materially from the information presented in the accompanying unaudited condensed combined pro forma financial statements.
     The unaudited condensed combined pro forma financial statements are provided for illustrative purposes only. They do not purport to represent what Mylan's consolidated results of operations and financial position would have been had the transaction actually occurred as of the dates indicated, and they do not purport to project Mylan's future consolidated results of operations or financial position.
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
1. Basis of Presentation
Purchase Price:
     These unaudited condensed combined pro forma financial statements reflect a preliminary allocation of the purchase price as if the transaction had been completed on April 1, 2005, with respect to the statements of earnings, and December 31, 2006, with respect to the balance sheet. The preliminary allocations are subject to change based on finalization of the fair values of the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The estimated purchase price of $776.8 million has been calculated and preliminarily assigned to the net tangible and intangible assets acquired as follows (in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
Table of Contents
The preliminary allocation of the purchase price for the 71.5% of the voting share capital of Matrix is based on the estimated fair values of the 71.5% of Matrix's assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquisition as follows (in thousands):
 
Pro Forma Adjustments
The pro forma adjustments give effect to the acquisition of 71.5% of Matrix outstanding voting shares by Mylan. There were reclassifications made to the historical presentation of the Matrix consolidated and condensed consolidated financial statements in order to conform to Mylan's presentation.
Statements of Earnings
Table of Contents
Balance Sheet
Table of Contents
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 23.1
We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Nos. 333-35887, 333-42182, 333-43081, 333-65327, 333-65329, 333-98811, 333-111076 and 333-111077 on Form S-8 of our report dated January 5, 2007, relating to the consolidated financial statements of Matrix Laboratories Limited and subsidiaries appearing in the Current Report on Form 8-K/A of Mylan Laboratories Inc. and subsidiaries.
/s/ Deloitte, Haskins & Sells
February 20, 2007

 
Exhibit 99.1
Pittsburgh, PA and Hyderabad, India; January 8, 2007  Mylan Laboratories Inc. (NYSE: MYL) and Matrix Laboratories Limited (Mumbai Stock Exchange, 524794; National Stock Exchange, MATRIXLABS) today announced that Mylan has completed its acquisition of approximately 51.5% of Matrix's outstanding shares for Rs. 306 per share in cash pursuant to a share purchase agreement (SPA) with certain selling shareholders. In light of the previously-announced closing of the acquisition of 20% of Matrix's outstanding shares under an open offer to Matrix shareholders, MP Laboratories (Mauritius) Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Mylan, now owns approximately 71.5% of the voting share capital of Matrix. Including the Matrix shareholdings maintained by Prasad Nimmagadda (N. Prasad), which are subject to a voting arrangement with Mylan, Mylan controls in excess of 75% of the voting share capital of Matrix. The selling shareholders under the SPA include N. Prasad and certain of his affiliates, India Newbridge Investments Limited (a joint venture between Texas Pacific Group and Blum Capital Partners) and its affiliates, Maxwell (Mauritius) Pte Limited and Spandana Foundation. Following the closing of the SPA, the Newbridge and Maxwell selling shareholders have invested a portion of their proceeds in Mylan common stock. N. Prasad also has agreed to invest $25 million of his proceeds in Mylan stock, in a private transaction anticipated to close by the end of January.
Robert J. Coury, Mylan's Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, has been appointed Non-Executive Chairman of the Board of Matrix Laboratories. N. Prasad will serve as Non-Executive Vice Chairman of the Board of Matrix and Head of Global Strategies in the Office of the CEO at Mylan. Mylan also announced the establishment of an Asian headquarters in Singapore, where N. Prasad and several members of his team will be located. The size of Mylan's Board of Directors has been increased to ten members, and N. Prasad has been appointed to the Mylan Board.
Mr. Coury commented: "Today's announcement marks the successful closing of the transformational Matrix transaction, and it also marks the beginning of a new era at Mylan where our organization is continuing to expand beyond our well-established position as a
 
leading domestic generic pharmaceutical company towards our objective of establishing Mylan as a world leader in generics and specialty pharmaceuticals."
About Mylan
Mylan Laboratories Inc. is a leading pharmaceutical company with three principal subsidiaries, Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc., Mylan Technologies Inc. and UDL Laboratories Inc., and a controlling interest in Matrix Laboratories Limited, India. Mylan develops, licenses, manufactures, markets and distributes an extensive line of generic and proprietary products. For more information about Mylan, please visit
www.mylan.com
About Matrix
Matrix Laboratories Limited is a public limited company listed on BSE and NSE, and is engaged in the manufacture of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) and Solid Oral Dosage Forms. Matrix is one of the fastest growing API manufacturers in India and focuses on regulated markets such as U.S. and EU. The company has a wide range of products in CNS, anti-bacterial, anti-AIDS, anti-asthmatic, cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, anti-fungal, pain management and life style related therapeutic segments. Six API manufacturing facilities of the Matrix Group are approved by the U.S. FDA. For more information about Matrix, please visit www.matrixlabsindia.com
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains statements that constitute "forward-looking statements", including with regard to Mylan's continuing global expansion and growth and its anticipated leadership position. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Because such statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties, actual future results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: challenges and costs relating to integration of the two businesses; the effect of any changes in customer and supplier relationships and customer purchasing patterns; the impact and effects of legal or regulatory proceedings, actions or changes; general market perception of the transaction; the ability to attract and retain key personnel; changes in economic and financial conditions of the Company's business; uncertainties and matters beyond the control of management; and the other risks detailed in the periodic filings filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no obligation to update these statements for revisions or changes after the date of this release.


