FILE:MYL/MYL-8K-20070109180720.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On January 8, 2007, Mylan Laboratories Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (the "Company"), announced the consummation of the acquisition of a controlling stake in Matrix Laboratories Limited ("Matrix"), as discussed in Item 2.01 below. Also on January 8, 2007, the Company and Prasad Nimmagadda, Matrix's former Executive Chairman and current Non-Executive Vice Chairman ("Mr. Prasad"), entered into an Executive Employment Agreement (the "Employment Agreement") and a Transition and Succession Agreement (the "Transition and Succession Agreement") in connection with Mr. Prasad's employment as an officer of the Company, as well as an Indemnification Agreement (the "Indemnification Agreement") with respect to his service on the Company's Board of Directors.
     
Employment Agreement
     Pursuant to the terms of the Employment Agreement, Mr. Prasad serves as the Company's Head of Global Strategies in the office of the CEO. The agreement has an initial term of three years and may be extended or renewed upon mutual agreement of the parties.
     Pursuant to the agreement, Mr. Prasad is entitled to an annual base salary of $750,000, and will be eligible for a discretionary annual bonus equal to 100% of base salary. In addition, Mr. Prasad was granted stock options to purchase 200,000 shares of the Company's common stock, which options vest ratably over three years, provided that Mr. Prasad remains employed by the Company on each vesting date.
     Upon Mr. Prasad's termination of employment without "cause", for "good reason" (each as defined in the Employment Agreement), or by reason of death or disability, Mr. Prasad will be entitled to receive, in addition to his accrued benefits, a lump sum equal to two times (one times, in the event of Mr. Prasad's termination for good reason) the sum of (a) his then-current minimum annual base salary plus (b) the higher of (i) the average of the annual bonuses paid to Mr. Prasad in the three fiscal years (or fewer, if applicable) prior to his separation from the Company; or (ii) the annual bonus applicable for the prior fiscal year. Amounts payable upon death or incapacity will be reduced by other disability or death benefits that Mr. Prasad or his estate or beneficiaries are entitled to pursuant to plans or arrangements of the Company. Mr. Prasad will also be entitled to continuation of employee benefits for a period of two years following termination of employment with the Company (one year following termination of employment for good reason). In addition, the options referred to above will vest in full upon Mr. Prasad's termination of employment without cause or for good reason, or if the Employment Agreement is not renewed. During the term of the Employment Agreement and for a period of two years following termination of employment for any reason, Mr. Prasad may not engage in activities that are competitive with the Company's activities and may not solicit the Company's customers or employees.
 
     
Transition and Succession Agreement
     Mr. Prasad's Transition and Succession Agreement governs the terms of his employment commencing on the occurrence of a "change of control" (as defined in the Transition and Succession Agreement), and continues for the two year period following which a change of control occurs (as defined in the Transition and Succession Agreement).
     The agreement provides that upon a termination without "cause" or for "good reason" or by reason of Mr. Prasad's death or disability (each as defined in the Transition and Succession Agreement), the Company shall pay to Mr. Prasad a lump sum in cash equal to three times the sum of: (i) Mr. Prasad's then-current annual base salary, plus (ii) an amount equal to the highest bonus determined under the Employment Agreement or paid to the Mr. Prasad under the Transition and Succession Agreement (in the case of Mr. Prasad's death or disability, reduced by any disability or death benefits that Mr. Prasad or his estate or beneficiaries are entitled to pursuant to plans or arrangements of the Company). Mr. Prasad also will be entitled to continuation of employee benefits for a period of three years following termination of employment with the Company.
     
Indemnification Agreement
     The Indemnification Agreement is substantially similar to those previously entered into by the Company with its other directors. The Indemnification Agreement provides that the Company will, to the fullest extent permitted by law, indemnify Mr. Prasad (the "Indemnitee") against all expenses, liability and loss actually incurred in connection with any criminal, civil, administrative or investigative action, suit or proceeding, whether brought by or in the name of the Company or otherwise, to which the Indemnitee is a party by reason of his relationship with the Company. In addition, the Indemnification Agreement provides for the advancement of expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with any proceeding covered by the Indemnification Agreement.
     The foregoing description of the Indemnification Agreement is a general description only and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Form of Indemnification Agreement, which is filed as exhibit 10.31 to the Company's Form 10-Q/A filed for the period ended September 30, 2004, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") effective as of December 3, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
          As previously announced, on August 28, 2006 the Company entered into a Share Purchase Agreement (the "Share Purchase Agreement") to acquire, through MP Laboratories (Mauritius) Ltd, its wholly-owned indirect subsidiary, approximately 51.5% of the outstanding share capital of Matrix Laboratories Limited, a publicly traded Indian company ("Matrix"), from Prasad Nimmagadda, Prasad Nimmagadda-Huf, G2 Corporate Services Limited, India Newbridge Coinvestment Limited, India Newbridge Partners FDI Limited, India Newbridge Investments Limited, Maxwell (Mauritius) Pte. Limited and Spandana Foundation at a price of Rs. 306 per share.
 
As previously disclosed in the Company's Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2006, as filed with the SEC on November 3, 2006, in conjunction with this planned transaction, on August 26, 2006, the Company entered into a foreign exchange forward contract to purchase Indian rupees with U.S. dollars. The purpose of the forward contract was to mitigate the risk of foreign currency exposure related to the pending transaction. The value of the foreign exchange contract fluctuated depending on the value of the U.S. dollar compared to the Indian rupee. The foreign exchange contract was settled concurrent with our payment of the purchase price for Matrix outstanding share capital upon the two separate closings of the transactions under the Share Purchase Agreement, as described below.
          On January 8, 2007, in accordance with the terms of the Share Purchase Agreement, the Company completed the acquisition of approximately 51.5% of the outstanding share capital of Matrix. As described in Item 5.02 hereof, effective January 8, 2007, Mr. Prasad has been appointed as a member of the Board of Directors and as an officer of the Company. As described in Item 1.01 hereof, Mr. Prasad entered into certain agreements with the Company in connection with his appointment as a member of the Board of Directors and as an officer of the Company.
     Also, in accordance with applicable Indian law, the Company previously commenced an open offer to acquire up to an additional 20% of the outstanding share capital of Matrix (the "Public Offer") from Matrix's shareholders (other than the selling shareholders under the Share Purchase Agreement and overseas corporate bodies). As previously disclosed, on December 21, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing the completion of the Public Offer and its acquisition of 20% of the outstanding share capital of Matrix, at a price of Rs. 306 per share.
     As a result of the two transactions, the Company now owns approximately 71.5% of the outstanding share capital of Matrix.
     On January 8, 2007, the Company and Matrix issued a joint press release announcing the closing of the Matrix acquisition. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.02. Appointment of Directors and Principal Officers.
     Effective January 8, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company appointed Mr. Prasad as a member of the Board of Directors. The size of the Company's Board was increased from nine (9) to ten (10) members in connection with the appointment of Mr. Prasad. Also on January 8, 2007, Mr. Prasad has been appointed as the Head of Global Strategies in the Office of the CEO. Mr. Prasad has been appointed to serve as a member of the Board's executive committee. Mr. Prasad does not have any family relationship with any director, executive officer or person nominated or chosen by us to become a director or executive officer.
 
     As previously disclosed, Mr. Prasad and the Company, along with India Newbridge Investments Limited, India Newbridge Coinvestment Limited, India Newbridge FDI Limited (collectively, the "Newbridge Entities") and Maxwell (Mauritius) Pte. Ltd. ("Maxwell") are party to a Shareholders Agreement, dated as of August 28, 2006 (the "Shareholders Agreement"), which became effective, or, in the case of Mr. Prasad, will be effective, upon the closing of the respective previously announced private sales of the Company's common shares to the Newbridge Entities, Maxwell and Mr. Prasad. The closing of the private sale of the Company's common shares to the Newbridge entities and Maxwell was completed on January 8, 2007. In connection with the private sale of the Company's common shares, the Company and Mr. Prasad entered into a Share Purchase Agreement, dated August 28, 2006 (the "Company Share Purchase Agreement"), pursuant to which Mr. Prasad has agreed to acquire from the Company $25 million of the Company's common stock at a price of $20.85 per share, subject to closing of the Share Purchase Agreement and other customary closing conditions, including certain regulatory approvals under Indian law. On January 8, 2007, Mr. Prasad assigned his rights and obligations under the Company Share Purchase Agreement to his affiliate G2 Corporate Services Limited. The parties anticipate that the completion of the transactions contemplated by the Company Share Purchase Agreement will occur by the end of January 2007. Pending satisfaction of the closing conditions to the transaction, a Rupee-equivalent amount to $25 million, to be used for purchase of the Company shares under the Company Share Purchase Agreement, has been placed by G2 Corporate Services Limited into an escrow account with Citibank branch in Mumbai, pursuant to an escrow agreement among the Company, G2 Corporate Services Limited and Citibank N.A.
     Pursuant to the Shareholders Agreement, the Company has agreed to use its reasonable best efforts to cause Mr. Prasad to be appointed as a member of the Company's Board and to cause him to be nominated or renominated to the Company Board, so long as he owns at least 599,520 shares of the Company's common stock. A copy of the Shareholders Agreement has been filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2006, as filed with the SEC on November 3, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.
     As stated above in Item 2.01, on January 8, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing, among other things, the appointment of Mr. Prasad as member of the Company's Board and as an officer of the Company. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)
Exhibits.
 
               Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
     This Executive Employment Agreement (the "Agreement") is dated as of January 8, 2007, by and between Mylan Laboratories Inc. (the "Company") and Prasad Nimmagadda ("Executive").
     WHEREAS, the Company wishes to employ Executive as Head of Global Strategies in the Office of the CEO, and Executive wishes to accept such employment, in each case effective as of the date hereof; and
     WHEREAS, Executive is desirous of assisting the Company in whatever manner the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and/or Board of Directors deem appropriate; and
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and mutual obligations of the parties contained herein, and for other valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and Executive agree as follows:
     1. . The Company agrees to employ Executive, and Executive accepts employment by the Company, on the terms and conditions provided herein.
Employment of Executive; Best Efforts
     2. . This Agreement shall commence and be effective as of the date hereof and shall remain in effect, unless earlier terminated, or extended or renewed, as provided in Section 9 of this Agreement, through the third anniversary of the date hereof.
Effective Date: Term of Employment
     3. .
Performance of Duties
     (a) . During the term of this Agreement, Executive shall devote his full working time and attention to the business and affairs of Mylan and the performance of his duties hereunder, serve Mylan faithfully and to the best of his ability, and use his best efforts to promote Mylan's interests. Without limitation, Executive shall travel in connection with his employment in accordance with the reasonable direction of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, commensurate with the activities of his position and his prior position with Matrix Laboratories Limited. During the term of this Agreement, Executive agrees to promptly and fully disclose to Mylan, and not to divert to Executive's own use or benefit or the use or benefit of others, any business opportunities involving any existing or prospective line of business, supplier, product or activity of Mylan or any business opportunities which otherwise should rightfully be afforded to Mylan.
Best Efforts
     (b) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, Executive shall not be authorized to bind the Company contractually or
No Power to Bind
 
otherwise to make commitments on behalf of the Company. Executive shall not represent or hold out to any person or statutory authority that he is possessed of such authority. The scope of Executive's authority and powers shall comprise solely in making recommendations in respect of matters, which are assigned to him by the Company, to persons designated and employed by the Company in this behalf. It is understood that no such recommendation of Executive shall be binding on the Company, in any manner whatsoever.
     4. . Executive's compensation shall include the following:
Executive's Compensation
     (a) . The Executive's minimum annual base salary (the "Minimum Annual Base Salary") shall be $750,000, payable in accordance with the Company's normal payroll practices for its executive officers. The Minimum Annual Base Salary may be increased from time to time at the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, any other committee authorized by the Board of Directors or any officer having authority over executive compensation.
Minimum Annual Base Salary
     (b) . Executive shall have an annual discretionary bonus opportunity of One Hundred percent (100%) of Executive's then-current Minimum Annual Base Salary, to be paid upon satisfaction of certain criteria established by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, or by any other committee or officer having authority over executive compensation.
Annual Bonus
     (c) . On the date hereof, Executive shall receive non-qualified stock options to purchase shares of Mylan common stock under the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") in accordance with the following vesting schedule, provided that Executive remains employed by Mylan on the following vesting dates: on the first anniversary of the date hereof, Executive shall vest in the first 66,667 shares; on the second anniversary of the date hereof, Executive shall vest in an additional 66,666 shares; and on the third anniversary of the date hereof, Executive shall vest in the remaining 66,667 shares. These options will be subject to all terms of the Plan and the applicable stock option agreement. Notwithstanding any term or provision to the contrary set forth elsewhere herein, Executive shall be entitled to one hundred percent (100%) vesting of the above-referenced options in the event Executive resigns for Good Reason or is Terminated Without Cause, or the Agreement is not extended or renewed, as provided in Section 9 herein. In addition, Executive will be eligible to receive performance-based equity grants made to other Company executives at the next annual grant at the discretion of the Compensation Committee.
Non-Qualified Stock Options; Performance-Based Compensation
     (d) . The Executive shall receive benefits and perquisites of employment similar to those as have been customarily provided to the Company's other executive officers including but not limited to, health insurance coverage, short-term disability benefits and twenty-five (25) vacation days, in each case in accordance with the plan documents or policies that govern such benefits.
Fringe Benefits and Expense Reimbursement
 
The Company shall reimburse Executive for all ordinary and necessary business expenses in accordance with established Company policy and procedures.
     5. . Executive recognizes and acknowledges that the business interests of the Company and its subsidiaries, parents and affiliates (collectively the "Mylan Companies") require a confidential relationship between the Company and Executive and the fullest protection and confidential treatment of the financial data, customer information, supplier information, market information, marketing and/or promotional techniques and methods, pricing information, purchase information, sales policies, employee lists, policy and procedure information, records, advertising information, computer records, trade secrets, know how, plans and programs, sources of supply, and other knowledge of the business of the Mylan Companies (all of which are hereinafter jointly termed "Confidential Information") which have or may in whole or in part be conceived, learned or obtained by Executive in the course of Executive's employment with the Company. Accordingly, Executive agrees to keep secret and treat as confidential all Confidential Information whether or not copyrightable or patentable, and agrees not to use or aid others in learning of or using any Confidential Information except in the ordinary course of business and in furtherance of the Company's interests. During the term of this Agreement and at all times thereafter, except insofar as is necessary disclosure consistent with the Company's business interests:
Confidentiality
     (a) Executive will not, directly or indirectly, disclose any Confidential Information to anyone outside the Mylan Companies;
     (b) Executive will not make copies of or otherwise disclose the contents of documents containing or constituting Confidential Information;
     (c) As to documents which are delivered to Executive or which are made available to him as a necessary part of the working relationships and duties of Executive within the business of the Company, Executive will treat such documents confidentially and will treat such documents as proprietary and confidential, not to be reproduced, disclosed or used without appropriate authority of the Company;
     (d) Executive will not advise others that the information and/or know how included in Confidential Information is known to or used by the Company; and
     (e) Executive will not in any manner disclose or use Confidential Information for Executive's own account and will not aid, assist or abet others in the use of Confidential Information for their account or benefit, or for the account or benefit of any person or entity other than the Company.
The obligations set forth in this paragraph are in addition to any other agreements the Executive may have with the Company and any and all rights the Company may have under state or federal statutes or common law.
 
     6. . Executive agrees that for a period ending upon the later to occur of the third anniversary of the date hereof or two (2) years after termination of Executive's employment with the Company for any reason:
Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation
     (a) Executive shall not, directly or indirectly, whether for himself or for any other person, company, corporation or other entity be or become associated in any way (including but not limited to the association set forth in i-vii of this subsection) with any business or organization which is directly or indirectly engaged in the research, development, manufacture, production, marketing, promotion or sale of any product the same as or similar to those of the Mylan Companies, or which competes or intends to compete in any line of business with the Mylan Companies within North America. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Executive may during the period in which this paragraph is in effect own stock or other interests in corporations or other entities that engage in businesses the same or substantially similar to those engaged in by the Mylan Companies, provided that Executive does not, directly or indirectly (including without limitation as the result of ownership or control of another corporation or other entity), individually or as part of a group (as that term is defined in Section 13(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder) (i) control or have the ability to control the corporation or other entity, (ii) provide to the corporation or entity, whether as an Executive, consultant or otherwise, advice or consultation, (iii) provide to the corporation or entity any confidential or proprietary information regarding the Mylan Companies or its businesses or regarding the conduct of businesses similar to those of the Mylan Companies, (iv) hold or have the right by contract or arrangement or understanding with other parties to hold a position on the board of directors or other governing body of the corporation or entity or have the right by contract or arrangement or understanding with other parties to elect one or more persons to any such position, (v) hold a position as an officer of the corporation or entity, (vi) have the purpose to change or influence the control of the corporation or entity (other than solely by the voting of his shares or ownership interest) or (vii) have a business or other relationship, by contract or otherwise, with the corporation or entity other than as a passive investor in it; provided, however, that Executive may vote his shares or ownership interest in such manner as he chooses provided that such action does not otherwise violate the prohibitions set forth in this sentence.
     (b) Executive will not, either directly or indirectly, either for himself or for any other person, partnership, firm, company, corporation or other entity, contact, solicit, divert, or take away any of the customers or suppliers of the Mylan Companies.
     (c) Executive will not solicit, entice or otherwise induce any employee of the Mylan Companies to leave the employ of the Mylan Companies for any reason whatsoever; nor will Executive directly or indirectly aid, assist or abet any other person or entity in soliciting or hiring any employee of the Mylan Companies, nor will Executive otherwise interfere with any contractual or other business relationships between the Mylan Companies and its employees.
 
     7. . Should a court of competent jurisdiction determine that any section or sub-section of this Agreement is unenforceable because one or all of them are vague or overly broad, the parties agree that this Agreement may and shall be enforced to the maximum extent permitted by law. It is the intent of the parties that each section and sub-section of this Agreement be a separate and distinct promise and that unenforceability of any one subsection shall have no effect on the enforceability of another.
Severability
     8. . The parties agree that in the event of Executive's violation of Sections 5 and/or 6 of this Agreement or any subsection thereunder, that the damage to the Company will be irreparable and that money damages will be difficult or impossible to ascertain. Accordingly, in addition to whatever other remedies the Company may have at law or in equity, Executive recognizes and agrees that the Company shall be entitled to a temporary restraining order and a temporary and permanent injunction enjoining and prohibiting any acts not permissible pursuant to this Agreement. Executive agrees that should either party seek to enforce or determine its rights because of an act of Executive which the Company believes to be in contravention of Sections 5 and/or 6 of this Agreement or any subsection thereunder, the duration of the restrictions imposed thereby shall be extended for a time period equal to the period necessary to obtain judicial enforcement of the Company's rights.
Injunctive Relief
     9. .
Termination of Employment
     (a) . (i) Executive may resign from employment at any time upon 90 days written notice to the Chief Executive Officer. During the 90 days notice period Executive will continue to perform duties and abide by all other terms and conditions of this Agreement. Additionally, Executive will use his best efforts to effect a smooth and effective transition to whomever will replace Executive. Mylan reserves the right to accelerate the effective date of Executive's resignation, provided that Executive shall receive Executive's salary and benefits through the ninety (90) day period. (ii) If Executive resigns without "Good Reason" (as defined below), Mylan shall have no liability to Executive under this Agreement other than that the Company shall pay Executive's wages and benefits through the effective date of Executive's resignation. Executive, however, will continue to be bound by all provisions of this Agreement that survive termination of employment. For purposes of this Agreement "Good Reason" shall mean a reduction of Executive's annual base salary below the Minimum Annual Base Salary stipulated in this Agreement, unless all other Chief officers of the Company (other than the CEO) are required to accept a similar reduction, or the assignment of duties to the Executive which are inconsistent with those of an executive officer. (iii) If Executive resigns with Good Reason and complies in all respects with his obligations hereunder, Mylan will pay Executive, within 30 days of his separation from the Company, a lump sum equal to his then-current Minimum Annual Base Salary plus the Prior Bonus (as defined below). Mylan shall also pay the cost of continuing Executive's health insurance benefits for the 12 months following his separation from the Company; provided, however, that in the case of health insurance continuation, Mylan's obligation to provide health insurance benefits shall end at such time as Executive obtains health
Resignation
 
insurance benefits through another employer or otherwise in connection with rendering services for a third party. Executive will continue to be bound by all provisions of this Agreement that survive termination of employment. As used herein, "Prior Bonus" means the higher of: (i) the average of the annual bonuses paid to Executive in the three fiscal years (or fewer, if applicable) prior to his separation from the Company; or (ii) the annual bonus applicable for the prior fiscal year, provided that if Executive was not employed by the Company during such prior year(s), then "Prior Bonus" shall refer to the target bonus described in Section 4(b) above, pro rated in based on the portion of the year in which Executive was employed by the Company.
     (b) . If Mylan determines to terminate Executive's employment during the term of this Agreement for Cause, as defined herein, Mylan will give Executive written notice of its belief that acts or events constituting Cause exist. Executive has the right to cure within five (5) days of Mylan's giving of such notice, the acts, events or conditions which led to such notice being given. For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" shall mean: (i) Executive's willful and gross misconduct with respect to Mylan's business or affairs; (ii) Executive's insubordination, gross neglect of duties, dishonesty or deliberate disregard of any material rule or policy of Mylan, (iii) Executive's conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude; or (iv) Executive's conviction of any felony. If Mylan terminates Executive's employment for Cause, the Company shall have no liability to Executive other than to pay Executive's wages and benefits through the effective date of Executive's termination. Executive, however, will continue to be bound by all provisions of this Agreement that survive termination of employment.
Termination for Cause
     (c) . If Mylan discharges Executive without Cause, Mylan will pay Executive, within 30 days of his separation from the Company, a lump sum equal to two times the aggregate of his then-current Minimum Annual Base Salary and the Prior Bonus. Mylan shall also pay the cost of continuing Executive's health insurance benefits (including, as applicable, those benefits that cover eligible members of his immediate family) for the 24 months following such termination without Cause; provided, however, that in the case of health insurance continuation, Mylan's obligation to provide health insurance benefits shall end at such time as Executive obtains health insurance benefits through another employer or otherwise in connection with rendering services for a third party. Executive will continue to be bound by all provisions of this Agreement that survive termination of employment.
Termination Without Cause
     (d) . The employment of Executive shall automatically terminate upon Executive's death or upon the occurrence of a disability that renders Executive incapable of performing the essential functions of his position within the meaning of the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990. For all purposes of this Agreement, any such termination shall be treated in the same manner as a termination without Cause, as described in Section 9(c) above, and Executive, or Executive's estate, as applicable, shall receive all consideration, compensation and benefits that would be due and payable to Executive for a termination without Cause, provided, however, that such consideration, compensation and benefits shall be reduced by any death or disability
Death or Incapacity
 
benefits (as applicable) that the Executive or his estate or beneficiaries (as applicable) are entitled to pursuant to plans or arrangements of the Company.
     (e) . The Term of Employment may be extended or renewed upon mutual agreement of Executive and the Company. If the Term of Employment is not extended or renewed on terms mutually acceptable to Executive and the Company, and if this Agreement has not been sooner terminated for reasons stated in Section 9(a), (b), (c) or (d) of this Agreement, Executive shall be paid severance, within 30 days of his separation from the Company, in an amount equal to his then-current Minimum Annual Base Salary plus the Prior Bonus, and Executive's health insurance benefits shall be continued for 12 months at the Company's cost; provided, however, that in the case of health insurance continuation, the Company's obligation to provide health insurance benefits shall end at such time as Executive, at his option, voluntarily obtains heath insurance benefits.
Extension or Renewal
     (f) . Upon the termination of Executive's employment for any reason, Executive shall immediately return to Mylan all records, memoranda, files, notes, papers, correspondence, reports, documents, books, diskettes, hard drives, electronic files, and all copies or abstracts thereof that Executive has concerning any or all of the Mylan Companies' business. Executive shall also immediately return all keys, identification cards or badges and other company property.
Return of Company Property
     (g) . There shall be no requirement on the part of Executive to seek other employment or otherwise mitigate damages in order to be entitled to the full amount of any payments and benefits to which Executive is otherwise entitled under any contract and the amount of such payments and benefits shall not be reduced by any compensation or benefits received by Executive from other employment.
No Duty to Mitigate
     (h) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the payment of consideration, compensation, and benefits pursuant to this Section 9 shall be interpreted and administered in manner intended to avoid the imposition of additional taxes under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.
Section 409A
     10. . The Company shall maintain D&O liability coverage pursuant to which Executive shall be a covered insured. Executive shall receive indemnification in accordance with the Company's Bylaws in effect as of the date of this Agreement. Such indemnification shall be contractual in nature and shall remain in effect notwithstanding any future change to the Company's Bylaws.
Indemnification
     To the extent not otherwise limited by the Company's Bylaws in effect as of the date of this Agreement, in the event that Executive is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit or proceeding, (including those brought by or in the right of the Company) whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative ("proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he is or was an officer, employee or agent of or is or was serving the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company or another corporation, or of a partnership, joint venture, trust
 
or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, Executive shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company to the fullest extent authorized by law against all expenses, liabilities and losses (including attorneys fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by Executive in connection therewith. Such right shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the Company expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition; provided, however, that the payment of such expenses incurred by Executive in his capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by Executive while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of such proceeding will be made only upon delivery to the Company of an undertaking, by or on behalf of Executive, to repay all amounts to Company so advanced if it should be determined ultimately that Executive is not entitled to be indemnified under this section or otherwise.
     Promptly after receipt by Executive of notice of the commencement of any action, suit or proceeding for which Executive may be entitled to be indemnified, Executive shall notify the Company in writing of the commencement thereof (but the failure to notify the Company shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have under this Section 10 unless and to the extent that it has been prejudiced in a material respect by such failure or from the forfeiture of substantial rights and defenses). If any such action, suit or proceeding is brought against Executive and he notifies the Company of the commencement thereof, the Company will be entitled to participate therein, and, to the extent it may elect by written notice delivered to Executive promptly after receiving the aforesaid notice from Executive, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to Executive, which may be the same counsel as counsel to the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Executive shall have the right to employ his own counsel in any such case, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of Executive unless (i) the employment of such counsel shall have been authorized in writing by the Company, (ii) the Company shall not have employed counsel reasonably satisfactory to Executive to take charge of the defense of such action within a reasonable time after notice of commencement of the action or (iii) Executive shall have reasonably concluded, after consultation with counsel to Executive, that a conflict of interest exists which makes representation by counsel chosen by the Company not advisable (in which case the Company shall not have the right to direct the defense of such action on behalf of Executive), in any of which events such fees and expenses of one additional counsel shall be borne by the Company. Anything in this Section 10 to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company shall not be liable for any settlement of any claim or action effected without its written consent.
     11. . The rights and obligations contained in this Agreement are in addition to and not in place of any rights or obligations contained in any other agreements between the Executive and the Company.
Other Agreements
 
     12. . All notices hereunder to the parties hereto shall be in writing sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and by fax, addressed to the respective parties at the following addresses:
Notices
Either party may, by written notice complying with the requirements of this section, specify another or different person or address for the purpose of notification hereunder. All notices shall be deemed to have been given and received on the day a fax is sent or, if mailed only, on the third business day following such mailing.
     13. . All payments required to be made by the Company hereunder to Executive or hi dependents, beneficiaries, or estate will be subject to the withholding of such amounts relating to tax and/or other payroll deductions as may be required by law.
Withholding
     14. . This Agreement may not be changed or terminated rally, nor shall any change, termination or attempted waiver of any of the provisions contained in this Agreement be binding unless in writing and signed by the party against whom the same is sought to be enforced, nor shall this section itself by waived verbally. This Agreement may be amended only by a written instrument duly executed by or on behalf of the parties hereto.
Modification and Waiver
     15. . This Agreement and all of its provisions were subject to negotiation and shall not be construed more strictly against one party than against another party regardless of which party drafted any particular provision.
Construction of Agreement
     16. . This Agreement and all of its provisions, rights and obligations shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and the Company's successors and assigns. This Agreement may be assigned by the Company to any person, firm or corporation which shall become the owner of substantially all of the assets of the Company or which shall succeed to the business of the Company; provided, however, that in the event of any such assignment the Company shall obtain an instrument in writing from the assignee in which such assignee assumes the obligations of the Company hereunder and shall deliver an executed copy thereof to Executive. No right or interest to or in any payments or benefits hereunder shall be assignable by Executive; provided, however, that this provision shall not preclude him from designating one or more beneficiaries to receive any amount that may be payable after his death and shall not preclude the legal representative of his estate from assigning any right hereunder to the person or persons entitled thereto under his will or, in the case of intestacy, to the person or persons entitled thereto under the laws of intestacy applicable to his estate. The
Successors and Assigns
 
term "beneficiaries" as used in this Agreement shall mean a beneficiary or beneficiary or beneficiaries so designated to receive any such amount, or if no beneficiary has been so designated, the legal representative of the Executive's estate. No right, benefit, or interest hereunder, shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, assignment, encumbrance, charge, pledge, hypothecation, or set-off in respect of any claim, debt, or obligation, or to execution, attachment, levy, or similar process, or assignment by operation of law. Any attempt, voluntary or involuntary, to effect any action specified in the immediately preceding sentence shall, to the full extent permitted by law, be null, void, and of no effect.
     17. . This Agreement shall be construed and enforced according to, and the rights and obligations of the parties shall be governed in all respects by, the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Any controversy, dispute or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or the breach hereof, including a claim for injunctive relief, or any claim which, in any way arises out of or relates to, Executive's employment with the Company or the termination of said employment, including but not limited to statutory claims for discrimination, shall be resolved by arbitration in accordance with the then current rules of the American Arbitration Association respecting employment disputes except that the parties shall be entitled to engage in all forms of discovery permitted under the Pennsylvania Rules of Civil Procedure (as such rules may be in effect from time to time). The hearing of any such dispute will be held in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and the losing party shall bear the costs, expenses and counsel fees of such proceeding. Executive and Company agree for themselves, their, employees, successors and assigns and their accountants, attorneys and experts that any arbitration hereunder will be held in complete confidence and, without the other party's prior written consent, will not be disclosed, in whole or in part, to any other person or entity except as may be required by law. The decision of the arbitrator(s) will be final and binding on all parties. Executive and the Company expressly consent to the jurisdiction of any such arbitrator over them.
Choice of Law and Forum
     18. . The headings of the sections of this Agreement have been inserted for convenience of reference only and shall in no way affect the interpretation of any of the terms or conditions of this Agreement.
Headings
     19. . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Execution in Counterparts
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above mentioned.

 
Exhibit 10.2
     THIS TRANSITION AND SUCCESSION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is entered into as of this 8 day of January, 2007 (this "Agreement"), by and between Mylan Laboratories Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (the "Company"), and Prasad Nimmagadda (the "Executive").
th
     WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to assure that the Company will have the continued dedication of the Executive, notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined herein), to ensure the Executive's full attention and dedication to the Company in the event of any threatened or actual Change of Control and to provide the Executive with compensation and benefits arrangements upon a Change of Control.
     NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of this Section 4(b), no act, or failure to act, on the part of the Executive shall be considered "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Executive in bad faith or without reasonable belief that the Executive's action or omission was in the best interests of the Company. Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board or upon the instructions of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or a senior officer of the Company or based upon the advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, by the Executive in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. The cessation of employment of the Executive shall not be deemed to be for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to the Executive a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the entire membership of the Board (excluding the Executive, if the Executive is a member of the Board) at a meeting of the Board called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice is provided to the Executive and the Executive is given an opportunity, together with counsel for the Executive, to be heard before the Board), finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Board, the Executive is
 
guilty of the conduct described in Section 4(b)(1) or 4(b)(2), and specifying the particulars thereof in detail.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mylan Laboratories Inc. 1500 Corporate Drive Canonsburg, PA 15317 Attention: Chief Legal Officer
or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith. Notice and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set the Executive's hand and the Company has caused these presents to be executed in its name on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written.

 
Exhibit 99.1
Pittsburgh, PA and Hyderabad, India; January 8, 2007  Mylan Laboratories Inc. (NYSE: MYL) and Matrix Laboratories Limited (Mumbai Stock Exchange, 524794; National Stock Exchange, MATRIXLABS) today announced that Mylan has completed its acquisition of approximately 51.5% of Matrix's outstanding shares for Rs. 306 per share in cash pursuant to a share purchase agreement (SPA) with certain selling shareholders. In light of the previously-announced closing of the acquisition of 20% of Matrix's outstanding shares under an open offer to Matrix shareholders, MP Laboratories (Mauritius) Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Mylan, now owns approximately 71.5% of the voting share capital of Matrix. Including the Matrix shareholdings maintained by Prasad Nimmagadda (N. Prasad), which are subject to a voting arrangement with Mylan, Mylan controls in excess of 75% of the voting share capital of Matrix. The selling shareholders under the SPA include N. Prasad and certain of his affiliates, India Newbridge Investments Limited (a joint venture between Texas Pacific Group and Blum Capital Partners) and its affiliates, Maxwell (Mauritius) Pte Limited and Spandana Foundation. Following the closing of the SPA, the Newbridge and Maxwell selling shareholders have invested a portion of their proceeds in Mylan common stock. N. Prasad also has agreed to invest $25 million of his proceeds in Mylan stock, in a private transaction anticipated to close by the end of January.
Robert J. Coury, Mylan's Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, has been appointed Non-Executive Chairman of the Board of Matrix Laboratories. N. Prasad will serve as Non-Executive Vice Chairman of the Board of Matrix and Head of Global Strategies in the Office of the CEO at Mylan. Mylan also announced the establishment of an Asian headquarters in Singapore, where N. Prasad and several members of his team will be located. The size of Mylan's Board of Directors has been increased to ten members, and N. Prasad has been appointed to the Mylan Board.
Mr. Coury commented: "Today's announcement marks the successful closing of the transformational Matrix transaction, and it also marks the beginning of a new era at Mylan where our organization is continuing to expand beyond our well-established position as a
 
leading domestic generic pharmaceutical company towards our objective of establishing Mylan as a world leader in generics and specialty pharmaceuticals."
About Mylan
Mylan Laboratories Inc. is a leading pharmaceutical company with three principal subsidiaries, Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc., Mylan Technologies Inc. and UDL Laboratories Inc., and a controlling interest in Matrix Laboratories Limited, India. Mylan develops, licenses, manufactures, markets and distributes an extensive line of generic and proprietary products. For more information about Mylan, please visit
www.mylan.com
About Matrix
Matrix Laboratories Limited is a public limited company listed on BSE and NSE, and is engaged in the manufacture of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) and Solid Oral Dosage Forms. Matrix is one of the fastest growing API manufacturers in India and focuses on regulated markets such as U.S. and EU. The company has a wide range of products in CNS, anti-bacterial, anti-AIDS, anti-asthmatic, cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, anti-fungal, pain management and life style related therapeutic segments. Six API manufacturing facilities of the Matrix Group are approved by the U.S. FDA. For more information about Matrix, please visit www.matrixlabsindia.com
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains statements that constitute "forward-looking statements", including with regard to Mylan's continuing global expansion and growth and its anticipated leadership position. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Because such statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties, actual future results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: challenges and costs relating to integration of the two businesses; the effect of any changes in customer and supplier relationships and customer purchasing patterns; the impact and effects of legal or regulatory proceedings, actions or changes; general market perception of the transaction; the ability to attract and retain key personnel; changes in economic and financial conditions of the Company's business; uncertainties and matters beyond the control of management; and the other risks detailed in the periodic filings filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no obligation to update these statements for revisions or changes after the date of this release.


