FILE:MYL/MYL-8K-20081212080136.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 3.01 Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing.
     (d) On December 12, 2008, Mylan Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation ("Mylan" or the "Company"), provided written notice to the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") that the Company expects to voluntarily cease trading on the NYSE, effective at the close of business on December 26, 2008, and intends to transfer its listing to NASDAQ Global Select Market ("NASDAQ"). The Company's shares of common stock, par value $.50 per share, rights to purchase preferred shares attached to the Common Stock, 6.50% mandatory convertible preferred stock, par value $.50 per share, and 1.25% senior convertible notes due 2012 have been approved for listing on NASDAQ. Mylan expects to begin trading on NASDAQ on December 29, 2008. Its common stock will continue to trade under the stock symbol "MYL", its preferred will trade as "MYLNP", and its notes will trade as "MYLNG". A copy of the press release announcing the planned transfer to NASDAQ is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
PITTSBURGHDec. 12, 2008Mylan Inc. (NYSE: MYL) today announced that it will move its stock exchange listing to The NASDAQ Stock Market, an exchange of The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. (Nasdaq: NDAQ) from The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) effective Dec. 29. The company will be listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, and its common stock will continue to trade under the "MYL" ticker symbol.
Mylan's Vice Chairman and CEO Robert J. Coury commented: "Notwithstanding the obvious financial benefits that NASDAQ offers, the decision to switch Mylan's listing was also driven by the fact that for quite some time a greater portion of our total trading volume was already crossing on NASDAQ trading facilities. This decision, we believe, will further enhance Mylan's overall needs and efficiencies."
Mylan's mandatory convertible preferred stock and 1.25% convertible notes also will move to NASDAQ with the ticker symbols "MYLNP" and "MYLNG," respectively.
Mylan Inc., which provides products to customers in more than 140 countries and territories, ranks among the leading diversified generic and specialty pharmaceutical companies in the world. The company maintains one of the industry's broadest  and highest quality  product portfolios, supported by a robust product pipeline; owns a controlling interest in the world's third largest active pharmaceutical ingredient manufacturer; and operates a specialty business focused on respiratory and allergy therapies. For more information, please visit www.mylan.com.


