FILE:MYL/MYL-8K-20080314170947.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
     (e) On March 12, 2008, Mylan Inc. ("Mylan"), and Edward J. Borkowski, Mylan's Chief Financial Officer, entered into an amendment to Mr. Borkowski's Executive Employment Agreement, including to extend the term of the agreement until March 12, 2010, and to memorialize his current base salary. A copy of the amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     (d) 
Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
     THIS AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (this "Amendment") is made effective as of the 12 day of March, 2008, by and between Mylan Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formerly known as Mylan Laboratories Inc. (the "Company"), and Edward J. Borkowski ("Executive").
th
     WHEREAS, the Company and Executive are party to that certain Executive Employment Agreement dated as of July 1, 2004, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto dated as of April 3, 2006 (the "Agreement"), pursuant to which the Company agreed to employ Executive, and Executive accepted such employment, as more particularly described in the Agreement (capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Agreement); and
     WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 9(e) and 14 of the Agreement, the Company and Executive desire to modify the Agreement, upon the terms and conditions set forth herein;
     NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
     1. Pursuant to Section 9(e) of the Agreement, the parties hereby mutually agree to extend the Term of Employment until March 12, 2010. Further, the reference to "June 30, 2008" in Section 2 of the Agreement is hereby amended to read "March 12, 2010".
     2. The first sentence of Section 4(a) of the Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
     3. The second sentence of Section 9(a)(ii) is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
     4. Section 9(e) is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
 
     5. (a) The parties acknowledge and agree that this Amendment is an integral part of the Agreement. Notwithstanding any provision of the Agreement to the contrary, in the event of any conflict between this Amendment and the Agreement or any part of either of them, the terms of this Amendment shall control.
          (b) Except as expressly set forth herein, the terms and conditions of the Agreement are and shall remain in full force and effect.
          (c) The Agreement, as amended by this Amendment, sets forth the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter thereof and hereof.
          (d) This Amendment shall be governed by, interpreted under and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
          (e) This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original and all of which shall constitute one and the same document.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been duly executed and delivered as of the day and year first above written.


