FILE:MYL/MYL-8K-20100513191011.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
     On May 12, 2010, Mylan Inc. (the "Company") and the guarantors named therein entered into a Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") with Goldman, Sachs & Co., as representative of the initial purchasers named therein, relating to the sale by the Company of $550 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 7.625% Senior Notes due 2017 at an issue price of 99.972% and $700 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 7.875% Senior Notes due 2020 at an issue price of 99.970% (together, the "Notes").
     The Notes will be issued in a private offering that is exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act") to qualified institutional buyers in accordance with Rule 144A and to persons outside of the United States pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act. The Notes will be the Company's senior unsecured obligations and will be guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by certain of the Company's domestic subsidiaries. Subject to customary closing conditions, the sale of the Notes is expected to close on or about May 19, 2010.
     The purchase agreement contains customary representations, warranties and agreements by the Company and the guarantors. In addition, the Company and the guarantors have agreed to indemnify the initial purchasers against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act, or to contribute to payments the initial purchasers may be required to make in respect of those liabilities. Furthermore, the Company and the guarantors have agreed with the initial purchasers not to offer or sell any substantially similar debt securities for a period of 90 days after the closing date without the prior written consent of the representative of the initial purchasers.
     The Company intends to use approximately $1.0 billion of the net proceeds of the offering to repay a portion of its U.S. dollar-denominated Tranche B Term Loans under its senior credit facility with the remainder to be used for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness or business development opportunities. The weighted average interest rate applicable to the borrowings being repaid, after giving effect to any interest rate hedging, was 5.6% as of March 31, 2010.
     On May 12, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing the pricing of the Notes. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     (d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACTS: Michael Laffin (Media) 724.514.1968
Kris King (Investors) 724.514.1831
PITTSBURGH, May 12, 2010  Mylan Inc. (Nasdaq: MYL) today announced that it increased the size of its previously announced private placement of senior notes upon pricing. Mylan priced $550 million aggregate principal amount of 7.625% Senior Notes due 2017 at an issue price of 99.972% and $700 million aggregate principal amount of 7.875% Senior Notes due 2020 at an issue price of 99.970%. Mylan expects to use approximately $1.0 billion of the net proceeds from the private placement to prepay a portion of its outstanding term loans, thereby reducing senior secured leverage and extending the maturity profile of its outstanding indebtedness, and the remainder for general corporate purposes, including debt repayment. Subject to customary closing conditions, the sale of the notes is expected to close on or about May 19, 2010.
The notes will be sold only to qualified institutional buyers in the United States in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, and outside the United States to non-U.S. persons in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act. The notes will not be registered under the Securities Act, and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell, or the solicitation of an offer to buy, any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities mentioned in this press release in any state in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state.
About Mylan
Mylan Inc. ranks among the leading generic and specialty pharmaceutical companies in the world and provides products to customers in more than 140 countries and territories. The company maintains one of the industry's broadest and highest quality product portfolios supported by a robust product pipeline; operates one of the world's largest active pharmaceutical ingredient manufacturers; and runs a specialty business focused on respiratory, allergy and psychiatric therapies. For more information, please visit .
www.mylan.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release includes statements that constitute "forward-looking statements." These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation
 
Reform Act of 1995. Because such statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties, actual future results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to Mylan's failure to consummate the private placement or to utilize the proceeds of such placement as described in this press release. These cautionary statements should be considered in connection with any subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements that may be made by Mylan or by persons acting on its behalf and in conjunction with its periodic SEC filings. In addition, please refer to the cautionary statements and risk factors set forth in Mylan's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2010 and in its other periodic filings made with the SEC from time to time.
SOURCE Mylan Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010 PR Newswire. All rights reserved


