FILE:MYL/MYL-8K-20100813171218.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
     On August 13, 2010, Mylan Inc. (the "Company") completed a private placement of $300 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due 2020 (the "Notes"). The Notes were issued as additional notes under an existing indenture, dated as of May 19, 2010 (the "Indenture"), among the Company, the guarantors named therein and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee, under which Mylan issued $700 million aggregate principal amount of 7.875% Senior Notes due 2020.
     The Notes were issued in a private offering exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act") to qualified institutional buyers in accordance with Rule 144A and to persons outside of the United States pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act. The Notes are the Company's senior unsecured obligations and are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by certain of the Company's domestic subsidiaries.
     The Notes bear interest at a rate of 7.875% per year, accruing from May 19, 2010. Interest on the Notes is payable semiannually in arrears on January 15 and July 15 of each year, beginning on January 15, 2011. The Notes will mature on July 15, 2020, subject to earlier repurchase or redemption in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
     The Company may redeem some or all of the Notes at any time prior to July 15, 2015 at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date and an applicable make-whole premium set forth in the Indenture. On or after July 15, 2015, the Company may redeem some or all of the Notes at redemption prices set forth in the Indenture, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date. In addition, at any time prior to July 15, 2013, the Company may redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes at a specified redemption price set forth in the Indenture with the net cash proceeds of certain equity offerings. If the Company experiences certain change of control events, it must offer to repurchase the Notes at 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the repurchase date.
     The Indenture contains covenants that, among other things, restrict the Company's ability and the ability of certain of its subsidiaries to incur indebtedness or issue certain preferred equity; enter into sale-leaseback transactions; pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions or restricted payments; make certain investments; agree to payment restrictions on the Company's subsidiaries; sell or otherwise transfer or dispose of assets, including equity interests of the Company's subsidiaries; enter into transactions with affiliates; create liens; designate subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and consolidate, merge or sell substantially all of the Company's assets. These covenants are subject to a number of important exceptions and qualifications, including the fall away or revision of certain of these covenants upon the Notes receiving investment grade credit ratings.
     The Company intends to use the net proceeds of this offering to finance a portion of the $550 million purchase price for the previously-announced acquisition of all of the equity of Bioniche Pharma Holdings Limited, a privately held, global injectable pharmaceutical company.
Table of Contents
If the Bioniche Pharma acquisition is not consummated, the Company intends to use the net proceeds from the offering for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness or business development opportunities.
     The foregoing summary does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete terms of the Indenture, incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 hereto.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
     On August 13, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing the completion of the Notes offering. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACTS: Michael Laffin (Media) 724.514.1968
Kris King (Investors) 724.514.1831
Mylan Announces Completion of Add-On Offering of Senior Notes
PITTSBURGH, August 13, 2010  Mylan Inc. (Nasdaq: MYL) today announced that it has completed a private placement of $300 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due 2020. The notes were issued at an issue price of 105.5% with a coupon of 7.875%, or an effective yield to maturity of 7.087%. The notes were issued as additional notes under an existing indenture under which Mylan issued $700 million aggregate principal amount of 7.875% Senior Notes due 2020 on May 19, 2010. The notes issued in this offering and the previously issued 7.875% Senior Notes due 2020 are treated as a single class of notes under the indenture.
Mylan intends to use the net proceeds of this offering to finance a portion of the $550 million purchase price for the previously-announced acquisition of all of the equity of Bioniche Pharma Holdings Limited, a privately held, global injectable pharmaceutical company. If the Bioniche Pharma acquisition is not consummated, Mylan intends to use the net proceeds from the offering for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness or business development opportunities.
The notes were sold only to qualified institutional buyers in the U.S. in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, and outside the U.S. to non-U.S. persons in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act. The notes are not and will not be registered under the Securities Act, and may not be offered or sold in the U.S. absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell, or the solicitation of an offer to buy, any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities mentioned in this press release in any state in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state.
Mylan Inc. ranks among the leading generic and specialty pharmaceutical companies in the world and provides products to customers in more than 140 countries and territories. The company maintains one of the industry's broadest and highest quality product portfolios supported by a robust product pipeline; operates one of the world's largest active pharmaceutical ingredient manufacturers; and runs a specialty business focused on respiratory, allergy and psychiatric therapies. For more information, please visit www.mylan.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release includes statements that constitute "forward-looking statements." These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Because such statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties, actual future results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to Mylan's failure to utilize the proceeds of such placement as described in this press release. These cautionary statements should be considered in connection with any subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements that may be made by Mylan or by persons acting on its behalf and in conjunction with its periodic SEC filings. In addition, please refer to the cautionary statements and risk factors set forth in Mylan's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2010 and in its other periodic filings made with the SEC from time to time.


