FILE:SNI/SNI-8K-20080804142520.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) On July 29, 2008, the Board of Directors of Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. (the "Company") approved a new employment agreement for Mr. Mark S. Hale, Senior Vice President Technology Operations and Chief Technology Officer of the Company.
Term
The employment agreement has a three-year term. The term may be extended for an additional year (up to a maximum of two extensions) unless the Company provides prior notice of its intention not to extend.
Compensation Levels
The employment agreement sets forth Mr. Hale's existing compensation and benefit levels. For example, during the term: (i) his annual base salary will be no less than $435,000; (ii) his target annual incentive opportunity will be no less than 50% of base salary; and (iii) he will be eligible to participate in all equity incentive plans, fringe benefit, employee retirement, pension and welfare benefit plans available to similarly situated executives of the Company.
Severance
Upon an involuntary termination of Mr. Hale's employment without "cause", or a voluntary termination of employment by Mr. Hale for "good reason", he would be entitled to a pro-rated annual incentive based on actual performance for the year of termination, plus base salary, target annual incentive, and medical, dental and life insurance coverage for the greater of 12 months or the balance of the term. Severance benefits are also available for 6 months if his employment is terminated due to a decision by the Company not to renew the term.
Upon a termination due to death or disability, Mr. Hale would be entitled to a pro-rated target annual incentive for the year of termination, plus one times base salary and continued medical and dental benefits for one year.
Restrictive Covenants
In exchange for the benefits described above, Mr. Hale agrees not to (i) disclose the Company's confidential information; (ii) compete against the Company for 6 months after termination (12 months if terminated for "cause"); (iii) solicit the Company's employees or customers for 12 months after termination; or (iv) disparage the Company for 12 months after termination.
The foregoing description of Mr. Hale's employment agreement is only a summary. The full text of the agreement will be filed as an exhibit to the Company's next Form 10-Q.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


