FILE:SNI/SNI-8K-20081017165957.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) On October 16, 2008, Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. (the "Company") entered into new employment agreements with Messrs. Lansing, NeCastro and Cruz. These new agreements replace and supersede the employment agreements assumed in the separation transaction.
Term
Each employment agreement has a three-year term. The term may be extended for an additional year unless the Company provides prior notice of its intention not to extend.
Compensation Levels
The employment agreements set forth the existing compensation and benefit levels for each executive. For example, during the term:
 
 
 
Severance
Upon an involuntary termination of each executive's employment without "cause", or a voluntary termination of employment by each executive for "good reason", he would be entitled to a pro-rated annual incentive based on actual performance for the year of termination, plus base salary, target annual incentive, and medical, dental and life insurance coverage for the greater of 18 months or the balance of the term. These severance benefits are also available for 12 months if his employment is terminated due to a decision by the Company not to renew the term.
Upon a termination due to death or disability, each executive would be entitled to a target annual incentive from January 1 through one year after death or disability, plus one times base salary and continued medical and dental benefits for one year.
Change in Control
Each executive will participate in the Executive Change in Control Plan ("CIC Plan"), which provides certain severance benefits in the event the executive's employment terminates without "cause" or for "good reason" within 2 years after a change in control of the Company. The employment agreements modify the CIC Plan to provide that if the executive is vested under the pension plan at the time of a change in control, then he will be treated as if he had attained at least age 55 with 10 years of service on the date of termination for purposes of calculating his pension benefits.
Restrictive Covenants
In exchange for the benefits described above, each executive agrees not to (i) disclose the Company's confidential information; (ii) compete against the Company for 6 months after termination (12 months if terminated for "cause"); (iii) solicit the Company's employees or customers for 12 months after termination; or (iv) disparage the Company for 12 months after termination.
The foregoing description of the employment agreements is only a summary. The full text of the agreements will be filed as an exhibit to the Company's next Form 10-Q.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 17, 2008


