FILE:SNI/SNI-8K-20080707164815.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
On July 1, 2008, Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. (the "Company") began operations as a separate publicly traded company upon the successful completion of its separation from The E. W. Scripps Company ("Scripps"). The separation was completed through the distribution of all shares of the Company to Scripps shareholders. All Scripps shareholders of record (as of June 16) received one share of the Company's stock for each share of stock they own in Scripps.
The Company's press release announcing the completion of the distribution is filed as Exhibit 99.1.
In connection with the separation, the following agreements between the Company and Scripps became effective:
On June 30, 2008, the Company entered into a new Revolving Credit Facility Agreement as discussed in Item 2.03 below.
On June 30, 2008 we entered into a Five-Year Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement (the "Revolver") that permits $550 million in aggregate borrowings and expires in June 2013.
Borrowings under the Revolver are available on a committed revolving credit basis at our choice of three short-term rates or through an auction procedure at the time of each borrowing. The agreement includes certain affirmative and negative covenants, including maintenance of a minimum leverage ratio.
On June 30, 2008, in connection with the distribution described under Item 1.01, the Company borrowed $325 million under the Revolver for the cash distribution paid to Scripps, the Company's parent company prior to the distribution.
A copy of the Revolver is filed as Exhibit 10.20.
 
     (c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 7, 2008

Exhibit 10.11 Execution Version
 
 
 
 
 
     THIS TRANSITION SERVICES AGREEMENT (this "") is entered into this 1st day of July, 2008, by and between The E. W. Scripps Company, an Ohio corporation (""), and Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc., an Ohio corporation and, prior to the Distribution Date, an indirect subsidiary of EWS ("" and, together with EWS, each, a "" and collectively, the ""). Capitalized terms used in this Agreement are defined as set forth in Section 1.01.
Agreement
EWS
SNI
Party
Parties
     WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of EWS has determined that it is in the best interests of EWS to separate the SNI Business and the EWS Business into two independent public companies, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Separation Agreement (as defined below), in order to separate businesses with differing strategic directions, eliminate existing constraints regarding capital allocation, concentrate management focus, allow more tailored management incentives, and accommodate differing shareholder bases;
     WHEREAS, in order to effectuate the foregoing, EWS and SNI have entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement, dated as of June 12, 2008 (the ""), pursuant to which and subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, the SNI Business shall be separated from the EWS Business, and all of the issued and outstanding Class A Common Shares, par value $0.01 per share, of SNI and Common Voting Shares, par value $0.01 per share, of SNI beneficially owned by EWS shall be distributed on a pro rata basis to the holders of the issued and outstanding Class A Common Shares, par value $0.01 per share, of EWS and Common Voting Shares, par value $0.01 per share, of EWS (the ""); and
Separation Agreement
Distribution
     WHEREAS, in connection therewith and in order to ensure an orderly transition under the Separation Agreement, EWS desires to provide, through the EWS Service Providers, to the SNI Group certain transition services (the "") with respect to the operation of the SNI Group following the Distribution Date, and SNI desires to provide, through the SNI Service Providers, to the EWS Group certain transition services (the "") with respect to the operation of the EWS Group following the Distribution Date, as such EWS Services and SNI Services are more fully described in separate schedules (all such schedules, including any appendices, exhibits or other attachments thereto, the "," and each, a "") to this Agreement and pursuant to Section 2.10.
EWS Services
SNI Services
Schedules
Schedule
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, and of the representations, warranties, covenants and agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the Parties hereby agree as follows:
     SECTION 1.01. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Definitions
     "Action" means any claim, demand, complaint, charge, action, cause of action, suit, countersuit, arbitration, litigation, inquiry, proceeding or investigation.
     "Additional EWS Scheduled Service" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.03.
 
     "Additional SNI Scheduled Service" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.04.
     "Affiliate" means, with respect to any specified Person, any other Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, such specified Person; , , that for purposes of this Agreement, no member of either Group shall be deemed to be an Affiliate of any member of the other Group. As used herein, "control" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such entity, whether through ownership of voting securities or other interests, by contract or otherwise.
provided
however
     "Agreement" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the preamble.
     "Ancillary Agreements" means the Employee Matters Agreement, the Trademark License Agreement, the Transition Services Agreement, the Tax Allocation Agreement, the Software License Agreement and the Retransmission Agreement.
     "Asset" means any right, property or asset, whether real, personal or mixed, tangible or intangible, of any kind, nature and description, whether accrued, contingent or otherwise, and wheresoever situated and whether or not carried or reflected, or required to be carried or reflected, on the books of any Person.
     "Best Efforts" means with respect to either Party, the efforts that such Party would use on behalf of itself to enforce its rights against a third party or cause such third party to honor its obligations to such Party under any agreement with such third party.
     "Consents" means any consents, waivers, notices, reports or other filings to be made, or any registrations, licenses, permits, authorizations to be obtained from, or approvals from, or notification requirements to, any third parties, including any Governmental Authority.
     "Defaulting Party" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 4.03(a)(i).
     "Distribution" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the preamble.
     "Distribution Date" means the date on which the Distribution shall be effected, such date to be determined by, or under the authority of, the Board of Directors of EWS in its sole and absolute discretion.
     "EWS" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the preamble.
     "EWS Business" means all businesses and operations conducted by the EWS Group from time to time, whether prior to, at or after the Distribution Date, other than the SNI Business.
     "EWS Data" means all data relating primarily to the EWS Business (including all files, records and other Information relating primarily to the EWS Business that have been uploaded to Software at any time since EWS or SNI began using such Software, whether uploaded prior to, on, or after the Distribution Date).
     "EWS Group" means, as of the Distribution Date, EWS and each of its Subsidiaries, including those Subsidiaries set forth on , and any corporation or entity that may become part of such Group from time to time thereafter. The EWS Group shall not include any member of the SNI Group.
Exhibit 1.01(a)
 
     "EWS Service Providers" means the EWS Group members and any Third Party Service Provider, in each case, to the extent such Person is providing the EWS Services on behalf of EWS pursuant to any Schedule.
     "EWS Services" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the recitals.
     "EWS Transition Plan" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.10(c).
     "Force Majeure Event" means any act of God, fire, flood, storm or explosion; any strike, lockout or other labor disturbance; any material shortage of facilities, labor, materials or equipment; any delay in transportation, breakdown or accident; any Law; any riot, war, act of terror, rebellion or insurrection; any embargo or fuel or energy shortage; any interruption in telecommunications or utilities services; or any other event, in each case beyond the control of a Party and that actually prevents, hinders or delays such Party from performing its obligations under this Agreement.
     "Governmental Authority" means any federal, state, local, foreign or international court, government, department, commission, board, bureau or agency, or any other regulatory, self-regulatory, administrative or governmental organization or authority.
     "Group" means the EWS Group or the SNI Group as the context requires.
     "Information" means all information, whether or not patentable or copyrightable, in written, oral, electronic or other tangible or intangible forms, stored in any medium, including non-public financial information, studies, reports, records, books, accountants' work papers, contracts, instruments, surveys, discoveries, ideas, concepts, know-how, techniques, designs, specifications, drawings, blueprints, diagrams, models, prototypes, samples, flow charts, data, computer data, disks, diskettes, tapes, computer programs or other Software, marketing plans, customer data, communications by or to attorneys, memos and other materials prepared by attorneys and accountants or under their direction (including attorney work product) and other technical, financial, legal, employee or business information or data.
     "Intellectual Property" means all intellectual property and other similar proprietary rights in any jurisdiction, whether owned or held for use under license, whether registered or unregistered, including such rights in and to: (i) trademarks, trade dress, service marks, certification marks, logos, trade names and the goodwill associated with the foregoing; (ii) patents and patent applications and any and all divisions, continuations, continuations-in-part, reissues, continuing patent applications, reexaminations and extensions thereof, any counterparts claiming priority therefrom, utility models, patents of importation/confirmation, certificates of invention, certificates of registration, design registrations or patents and like rights; (iii) inventions, invention disclosures, discoveries and improvements, whether or not patentable; (iv) writings and other works of authorship; (v) trade secrets (including, those trade secrets defined in the Uniform Trade Secrets Act and under corresponding foreign statutory Law and common law), Information, business, technical and know-how information, business processes, non-public information, proprietary information and confidential information and rights to limit the use or disclosure thereof by any Person; (vi) software, including data files, source code, object code, application programming interfaces, databases and other software-related specifications and documentation (collectively, "Software"); (vii) domain names and uniform resource locators; (viii) moral rights; (ix) privacy and publicity rights; (x) advertising and promotional materials, whether or not copyrightable; and (xi) claims, causes of action and defenses relating to the enforcement of any of the foregoing; in each case, including any registrations of, applications to register, and renewals and extensions of, any of the foregoing with or by any Governmental Authority in any jurisdiction.
 
     "Law" means any applicable foreign, federal, national, state, provincial or local law (including common law), statute, ordinance, rule, regulation, code or other requirement enacted, promulgated, issued or entered into, or act taken, by a Governmental Authority.
     "Liabilities" means all debts, liabilities, obligations, responsibilities, response actions, Losses, damages (whether compensatory, punitive, consequential, treble or other), fines, penalties and sanctions, absolute or contingent, matured or unmatured, liquidated or unliquidated, foreseen or unforeseen, on- or off-balance sheet, joint, several or individual, asserted or unasserted, accrued or unaccrued, known or unknown, whenever arising, including those arising under or in connection with any Law, or other pronouncements of Governmental Authorities constituting an Action, order or consent decree of any Governmental Authority or any award of any arbitration tribunal, and those arising under any contract, guarantee, commitment or undertaking, whether sought to be imposed by a Governmental Authority, private party, or a Party, whether based in contract, tort, implied or express warranty, strict liability, criminal or civil statute, or otherwise, and including any costs, expenses, interest, attorneys' fees, disbursements and expense of counsel, expert and consulting fees, fees of third party administrators and costs related thereto or to the investigation or defense thereof.
     "Loss" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 9.06.
     "Non Defaulting Party" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 4.03(a).
     "Party" or "Parties" shall have the meaning assigned to such terms in the preamble.
     "Person" means any natural person, corporation, general or limited partnership, limited liability company or partnership, joint stock company, joint venture, association, trust, bank, trust company, land trust, business trust or other organization, whether or not a legal entity, and any Governmental Authority.
     "Prime Rate" means the "prime rate" published in the "Money Rates" section of The Wall Street Journal. If The Wall Street Journal ceases to publish the "prime rate," then the Parties shall mutually agree to an equivalent publication that publishes such "prime rate," and if such "prime rate" is no longer generally published or is limited, regulated or administered by a Governmental Authority, then a comparable interest rate index mutually agreed to by the Parties.
     "Registration Statement" means the Registration Statement on Form 10 of SNI as declared effective by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the registration under the United States Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, of the Class A Common Shares, par value $0.01 per share, of SNI, including any post-effective amendments thereto and all exhibits (including the SNI Information Statement) and other documents incorporated therein by reference.
     "Schedule" or "Schedules" shall have the meaning assigned to such terms in the recitals.
     "Separation Agreement" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the recitals.
     "Service Provider" means the EWS Service Providers and/or the SNI Service Providers, as the context requires.
     "Service Recipient" means either any member of the EWS Group , to the extent such member of the EWS Group is receiving a Service from an SNI Service Provider, or any member of the SNI Group , to the extent such member of the SNI Group is receiving a Service from an EWS Service Provider, as the context requires.
 
     "Service Taxes" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 3.06.
     "Services" means the EWS Services and/or the SNI Services, as the context requires.
     "SNI" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the preamble.
     "SNI Business" means all businesses and operations conducted by the SNI Group from time to time, whether prior to, at or after the Distribution Date, including the businesses and operations conducted by the SNI Group as more fully described in the SNI Information Statement and excluding the EWS Business.
     "SNI Data" means all data relating primarily to the SNI Business (including all files, records and other Information relating primarily to the SNI Business that have been uploaded to Software at any time since EWS or SNI began using such Software, whether uploaded prior to, on, or after the Distribution Date).
     "SNI Group" means, as of the Distribution Date, SNI and each of its Subsidiaries, including those Subsidiaries set forth on , and any corporation or entity that may become part of such Group from time to time thereafter. The SNI Group shall not include any member of the EWS Group.
Exhibit 1.01(b)
     "SNI Information Statement" means the definitive information statement distributed to the holders of EWS Common Voting Shares in connection with the Distribution and filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 99.1 to the Registration Statement or as an exhibit to a Form 8-K of SNI.
     "SNI Service Providers" means the SNI Group members and any Third Party Service Provider, in each case, to the extent such Person is providing the SNI Services on behalf of SNI pursuant to any Schedule.
     "SNI Services" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the recitals.
     "SNI Transition Plan" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.10(b).
     "Software" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 1.01.
     "Subsidiary" means, with respect to any specified Person, any other Person of which the specified Person (either alone or through or together with any other Subsidiary of such Person) owns, directly or indirectly, a majority of the stock or other equity interests the holders of which are generally entitled to vote for the election of the board of directors or other governing body of such corporation or other legal entity and, solely for purposes of determining whether an entity is within the EWS Group or the SNI Group, any other Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, is controlled by such specified Person, with "control" meaning the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such entity, whether through ownership of voting securities or other interests, by contract or otherwise.
     "SOX" means the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended from time to time.
     "Taxes" means any federal, state, local or foreign income, gross receipts, property, sales, use, license, excise, franchise, employment, payroll, premium, withholding, alternative or added minimum, ad valorem, transfer or excise tax or any other tax, custom, duty, governmental fee or other like assessment
 
or charge or any kind whatsoever, together with any interest or penalty or addition thereto, whether disputed or not, imposed by any Governmental Authority.
     "Tax Return" means any return, report or similar statement required to be filed with respect to any Tax (including any attached Schedules), including any information return, claim for refund, amended return or declaration of estimated Tax.
     "Team Leader" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 7.01.
     "Third Party Service Provider" means any third party that is providing Services on behalf of EWS or SNI pursuant to any Schedule.
     "Third Party Vendor Costs" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 3.03.
     "Transition Plans" means the EWS Transition Plan and/or the SNI Transition Plan, as the context requires.
     "Transition Team" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 7.01.
     SECTION 1.02. Words in the singular shall include the plural and vice versa, and words of one gender shall include the other gender, in each case, as the context requires. The words "hereof," "herein," "hereunder," and "herewith" and words of similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this Agreement and not to any particular provision of this Agreement, and references to Article, Section, paragraph, exhibit and schedule are references to the Articles, Sections, paragraphs, exhibits and schedules to this Agreement unless otherwise specified. The word "including" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall mean "including, without limitation," unless otherwise specified. Any reference to any federal, state, local or non-U.S. statute or Law shall be deemed to also refer to all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, unless the context otherwise requires.
General Interpretive Principles
.
     SECTION 2.01. During the term of this Agreement, EWS shall provide, or shall cause one or more EWS Service Providers to provide, to the applicable member or members of the SNI Group (such member or members of the SNI Group as determined by SNI in its sole discretion), the EWS Services, as such EWS Services are more particularly described in the applicable Schedules attached hereto, upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement and such applicable Schedules, including such EWS Services as shall be specified in the Schedules as contemplated by Section 2.10.
EWS Scheduled Services
.
     SECTION 2.02. . During the term of this Agreement, SNI shall provide, or shall cause one or more SNI Service Providers to provide, to the applicable member or members of the EWS Group (such member or members of the EWS Group as determined by EWS in its sole discretion), the SNI Services, as such SNI Services are more particularly described in the applicable Schedules attached hereto, upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement and such applicable Schedules, including such SNI Services as shall be specified in the Schedules as contemplated by Section 2.10.
SNI Scheduled Services
     SECTION 2.03. . If, from time to time during the term of this Agreement, SNI determines that the provision of a service by the EWS Group that is not described on
Additional EWS Scheduled Services
 
the Schedules is reasonably necessary to enable the SNI Group to operate the SNI Business, including any Services contemplated by Section 2.10, and such service (whether or not then currently being provided) is not included in a Schedule (such service, including the right to use, or the use of, any Asset in connection with such service, hereinafter referred to as an ""), then SNI may give written notice thereof to EWS in accordance with Section 11.01 hereof. Upon receipt of such notice by EWS, if EWS is reasonably able to provide, or cause to be provided, such Additional EWS Scheduled Service, the Parties will negotiate in good faith, on an arms'-length basis, to attempt to agree on a Schedule setting forth the Additional EWS Scheduled Service, the terms and conditions (including any service level requirements) for the provision of such Additional EWS Scheduled Service and the fees and expenses payable by SNI for such Additional EWS Scheduled Service.
Additional EWS Scheduled Service
     SECTION 2.04. . If, from time to time during the term of this Agreement, EWS determines that the provision of a service by the SNI Group that is not described on the Schedules is reasonably necessary to enable the EWS Group to operate the EWS Business, including any Services contemplated by Section 2.10, and such service (whether or not then currently being provided) is not included in a Schedule (such service, including the right to use, or the use of, any Asset in connection with such service, herein after referred to as an ""), then EWS may give written notice thereof to SNI in accordance with Section 11.01 hereof. Upon receipt of such notice by SNI, if SNI is reasonably able to provide, or cause to be provided, the Additional SNI Scheduled Service, the Parties will negotiate in good faith, on an arms'-length basis, to attempt to agree on a Schedule setting forth the Additional SNI Scheduled Service, the terms and conditions (including any service level requirements) for the provision of such Additional SNI Scheduled Service and the fees and expenses payable by EWS for such Additional SNI Scheduled Service.
Additional SNI Scheduled Services
Additional SNI Scheduled Service
     SECTION 2.05. .
Scope of EWS Services; Standard of Performance for EWS Services
          (a) EWS shall provide, or shall cause to be provided, the EWS Services in a manner and at a level that is substantially similar in all material respects to the typical manner and average level at which such EWS Services were provided to the applicable member or members of the SNI Group during the six-month period prior to the Distribution Date, except to the extent that (i) a different manner or level of an EWS Service is set forth in a Schedule, in which case such EWS Service shall be provided in the manner and level as set forth in each such applicable Schedule or (ii) such EWS Service has not been provided during the six-month period prior to the Distribution Date and the applicable Schedule does not set forth a manner or level at which such EWS Service is to be provided, in which case, such EWS Service shall be provided in the same manner and at the same level at which such EWS Service was provided to the applicable member or members of the SNI Group on the last occasion (or during the six-month period prior to the last occasion) such EWS Service was provided to any member of the SNI Group.
          (b) Notwithstanding Section 2.05(a), EWS may change from time to time the manner in which any EWS Service is provided to the SNI Group, to the extent that EWS is making a similar change in performing a substantially similar service for itself or its Subsidiaries and if EWS provides SNI substantially the same notice (in content and timing) as EWS provides itself and its Subsidiaries with respect to such change; , that, EWS may not make any change to the manner in which any EWS Service is provided to the SNI Group if such change would result in a violation, or cause any member of the SNI Group to be in violation, of applicable Law; , if SNI can demonstrate, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, that such change is not commercially reasonable and the SNI Group has suffered a material financial harm as a result of such change, EWS shall be required to restore, or cause to be restored, the manner in which such EWS Service is provided to the SNI Group to the manner required by Section 2.05(a). No such change shall affect the fees and expenses for, or materially diminish the quality of, the applicable EWS Service.
provided
provided, further
 
          (c) Notwithstanding anything contained herein, EWS may decline to provide all or any part of any particular Service, if EWS reasonably believes that the performance of any EWS Service Provider's obligations relating thereto would violate any applicable Law applicable to such EWS Service Provider's business, but only (i) to the extent reasonably necessary for such EWS Service Provider to ensure compliance therewith, (ii) after such EWS Service Provider has applied commercially reasonable efforts to reduce the amount and/or effect of any such restrictions and (iii) after EWS has delivered written notice to SNI specifying in reasonable detail the nature of the applicable restrictions and of any proposed resulting modification in such EWS Service Provider's obligations.
          (d) Subject to Section 9.03, in no event shall EWS be liable or accountable, in damages or otherwise, for any error of judgment or any mistake of fact or Law or for any action or omission in connection with the provision of the EWS Services by any EWS Service Provider that such EWS Service Provider took or refrained from taking in good faith hereunder, except in the case of such EWS Service Provider's intentional breach, fraud, gross negligence or willful misconduct.
     SECTION 2.06. .
Scope of SNI Services; Standard of Performance for SNI Services
          (a) SNI shall provide, or shall cause to be provided, the SNI Services in a manner and at a level that is substantially similar in all material respects to the typical manner and average level at which such SNI Services were provided to the applicable member or members of the EWS Group during the six-month period prior to the Distribution Date, except to the extent that (i) a different manner or level of an SNI Service is set forth in a Schedule, in which case such SNI Service shall be provided in the manner and level as set forth in each such applicable Schedule or (ii) such SNI Service has not been provided during the six-month period prior to the Distribution Date and the applicable Schedule does not set forth a manner or level at which such SNI Service is to be provided, in which case, such SNI Service shall be provided in the same manner and at the same level at which such SNI Service was provided to the applicable member or members of the EWS Group on the last occasion (or during the six-month period prior to the last occasion) such SNI Service was provided to any member of the EWS Group.
          (b) Notwithstanding Section 2.06(a), SNI may change from time to time the manner in which any SNI Service is provided to the EWS Group, to the extent that SNI is making a similar change in performing a substantially similar service for itself or its Subsidiaries and if SNI provides EWS substantially the same notice (in content and timing) as SNI provides itself and its Subsidiaries with respect to such change; , that, SNI may not make any change to the manner in which any SNI Service is provided to the EWS Group if such change would result in a violation, or cause any member of the EWS Group to be in violation, of applicable Law; , if EWS can demonstrate, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, that such change is not commercially reasonable and the EWS Group has suffered a material financial harm as a result of such change, SNI shall be required to restore, or cause to be restored, the manner in which such SNI Service is provided to the EWS Group to the manner required by Section 2.06(a). No such change shall affect the fees and expenses for, or materially diminish the quality of, the applicable SNI Service.
provided
provided, further
          (c) Notwithstanding anything contained herein, SNI may decline to provide all or any part of any particular Service, if SNI reasonably believes that the performance of any SNI Service Provider's obligations relating thereto would violate any applicable Law applicable to such SNI Service Provider's business, but only (i) to the extent reasonably necessary for such SNI Service Provider to ensure compliance therewith, (ii) after such SNI Service Provider has applied commercially reasonable efforts to reduce the amount and/or effect of any such restrictions and (iii) after SNI has delivered written notice to EWS specifying in reasonable detail the nature of the applicable restrictions and of any proposed resulting modification in such SNI Service Provider's obligations.
 
          (d) Subject to Section 9.04, in no event shall SNI be liable or accountable, in damages or otherwise, for any error of judgment or any mistake of fact or Law or for any action or omission in connection with the provision of the SNI Services by any SNI Service Provider that such SNI Service Provider took or refrained from taking in good faith hereunder, except in the case of such SNI Service Provider's intentional breach, fraud, gross negligence or willful misconduct.
     SECTION 2.07. .
Personnel Providing Services; Subcontracting
          (a) Each Service Provider shall have the sole and exclusive responsibility for selecting and managing their personnel who provide the applicable Services and shall supervise them in connection with the performance of the applicable Services. Such personnel shall be qualified, in the reasonable opinion of such Service Provider, for the tasks to which they are assigned. Such Service Provider shall pay and be responsible for all wages, salary or other compensation, taxes, insurance and, except as expressly specified herein or in any Schedule or separate agreement, other costs and expenses with respect to such personnel.
          (b) To the extent that any Service Provider determines that it is desirable for any reason in its sole discretion, such Service Provider may, without revising the fees otherwise charged to the Service Recipient, contract with reasonably qualified third parties to provide any or all Services to the applicable Service Recipient for all or part of the remainder of the term of this Agreement. No such Third Party Service Provider shall be provided access to any Information of Service Recipient or the applicable member of its Group unless such Third Party Service Provider is bound by non-disclosure obligations at least as restrictive as those contained herein.
          (c) Each Service Provider shall remain fully responsible for its performance of the applicable Services in accordance with the terms hereof, including any obligations it performs through Third Party Service Providers, and each Service Provider shall be solely responsible for all payments due to Third Party Service Providers. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, amounts due from any Service Provider to its subcontractors shall not be included in, or be deemed to be, Third Party Vendor Costs to the extent such amounts are for services that are duplicative of any Services for which any Service Provider is charging a fee hereunder.
          (d) In the event any Liability arises from the performance of the Services hereunder by a Third Party Service Provider, the Service Provider shall not be released from its responsibilities under this Agreement and all applicable Service Recipients shall be subrogated to such rights, if any, as the applicable Service Provider may have against such Third Party Service Provider with respect to the Services provided by such Third Party Service Provider to or on behalf of the Service Recipient.
     SECTION 2.08. .
Interruption of Services
          (a) If, due to a Force Majeure Event, an EWS Service Provider is unable, wholly or partially, to perform its obligations hereunder, then EWS shall be relieved of liability and shall suffer no prejudice for failing to perform or comply during the continuance and to the extent of such whole or partial inability to perform its obligations hereunder so caused by such Force Majeure Event; , that, (i) EWS gives SNI prompt notice, written or oral (but if oral, promptly confirmed in writing) of such whole or partial inability to perform the obligations hereunder and a reasonably detailed description of the cause thereof and (ii) in the event such whole or partial inability to perform its obligations hereunder is a result of such EWS Service Provider's capacity or similar limitations, with respect to the allocation of such limited resources, the SNI Group shall be treated no less favorably by such EWS Service Provider than EWS or any Subsidiary of EWS. If EWS fails to promptly give notice of such Force Majeure Event, then EWS shall only be relieved from such performance or compliance from and after the giving of such
provided
 
notice. EWS shall or shall cause the applicable EWS Service Provider(s) to use its commercially reasonable efforts to remedy the situation caused by such Force Majeure Event and remove, so far as possible and with reasonable timeliness, the cause of its inability to perform or comply. EWS shall give SNI prompt notice of the cessation of the Force Majeure Event.
          (b) If, due to a Force Majeure Event, an SNI Service Provider is unable, wholly or partially, to perform its obligations hereunder, then SNI shall be relieved of liability and shall suffer no prejudice for failing to perform or comply during the continuance and to the extent of such whole or partial inability to perform its obligations hereunder so caused by such Force Majeure Event; , that, (i) SNI gives EWS prompt notice, written or oral (but if oral, promptly confirmed in writing) of such whole or partial inability to perform the obligations hereunder and a reasonably detailed description of the cause thereof and (ii) in the event such whole or partial inability to perform its obligations hereunder is a result of such SNI Service Provider's capacity or similar limitations, with respect to the allocation of such limited resources, the EWS Group shall be treated no less favorably by such SNI Service Provider than SNI or any Subsidiary of SNI. If SNI fails to promptly give notice of such Force Majeure Event, then SNI shall only be relieved from such performance or compliance from and after the giving of such notice. SNI shall or shall cause the applicable SNI Service Provider(s) to use its commercially reasonable efforts to remedy the situation caused by such Force Majeure Event and remove, so far as possible and with reasonable timeliness, the cause of its inability to perform or comply. SNI shall give EWS prompt notice of the cessation of the Force Majeure Event.
provided
     SECTION 2.09. .
Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity
          (a) The EWS Service Providers will document the process for recovering and maintaining operations and services in the event of a disruption of normal operations, a disaster, a Force Majeure Event or other unforeseen circumstance, which documentation will include procedures for an orderly restoration of the computing environment, applications and network services. The intent of such documentation is to document steps to remedy the impact or disruption of services within an acceptable recovery time period. The EWS Service Providers will periodically review and maintain such documentation throughout the term of this Agreement. The EWS Service Providers will notify SNI of any material change or modification in such documentation.
          (b) The EWS Service Providers will back-up all system software, applications and data as frequently and in such manner as shall be substantially comparable to the frequency and manner that was practiced by the Parties during the six-month period prior to the Distribution Date. Each EWS Service Provider will perform all such back-ups in accordance with such EWS Service Provider's internal policies and procedures. Without limiting the foregoing, the EWS Service Providers will (i) properly store offsite all back-up tapes, disks and other media, (ii) maintain a log of all back-ups to ensure proper rotation of back-up tapes, disks and other media and (iii) perform back-ups at least weekly and send back-up tapes, disks and other media offsite within 48 hours.
          (c) The SNI Service Providers will document the process for recovering and maintaining operations and services in the event of a disruption of normal operations, a disaster, a Force Majeure Event or other unforeseen circumstance, which documentation will include procedures for an orderly restoration of the computing environment, applications and network services. The intent of such documentation is to document steps to remedy the impact or disruption of services within an acceptable recovery time period. The SNI Service Providers will periodically review and maintain such documentation throughout the term of this Agreement. The SNI Service Providers will notify EWS of any material change or modification in such documentation.
 
          (d) The SNI Service Providers will back-up all system software, applications and data as frequently and in such manner as shall be substantially comparable to the frequency and manner that was practiced by the Parties during the six-month period prior to the Distribution Date. Each SNI Service Provider will perform all such back-ups in accordance with such SNI Service Provider's internal policies and procedures. Without limiting the foregoing, the SNI Service Providers will (i) properly store offsite all back-up tapes, disks and other media, (ii) maintain a log of all back-ups to ensure proper rotation of back-up tapes, disks and other media and (iii) perform back-ups at least weekly and send back-up tapes, disks and other media offsite within 48 hours.
     SECTION 2.10. .
Transition of Responsibilities
          (a) Each Party agrees to use its good faith efforts to reduce or eliminate its and the other members of its Group's dependency on each Service provided by the other Party and members of its Group as soon as is reasonably practicable and, in any event, at the times or upon the occurrence of any events described in the SNI Transition Plan or EWS Transition Plan, as the case may be. Each Party further agrees, for itself and each Service Provider within its Group, to cooperate with the other Party and the Service Recipients within its Group, to facilitate the orderly transition of responsibility for each Service to the Service Recipient or any third party designated by the Service Recipient, including by providing the transition and termination services described in the SNI Transition Plan or EWS Transition Plan, as the case may be.
          (b) As promptly as practicable, EWS and SNI will agree in good faith to a plan for SNI to assume responsibility or eliminate the need for the provision of each EWS Service including such matters as shall be set forth in the Schedules (the ""). The SNI Transition Plan will contain a schedule of transition events, including the expected date by which the SNI Transition Plan for each EWS Service will be completed, any training (including the transfer of knowledge and expertise) or other services that will be needed by the SNI Group members (or their third party designees) and the estimated costs and expenses, if any, to be paid by SNI to EWS with respect to such training and other services that EWS agrees to provide to the SNI Group members in order to facilitate the completion of the SNI Transition Plan. The SNI Transition Plan shall incorporate, without duplication of fees or expenses payable by the Service Recipient, all agreements with respect to such matters as shall be set forth in the Schedules.
SNI Transition Plan
          (c) As promptly as practicable, EWS and SNI will agree in good faith to a plan for EWS to assume responsibility or eliminate the need for the provision of each SNI Service including such matters as shall be set forth in the Schedules (the ""). The EWS Transition Plan will contain a schedule of transition events, including the expected date by which the EWS Transition Plan for each SNI Service will be completed, any training (including the transfer of knowledge and expertise) or other services that will be needed by the EWS Group members (or their third party designees) and the estimated costs and expenses, if any, to be paid by EWS to SNI with respect to such training and other services that SNI agrees to provide to the EWS Group members in order to facilitate the completion of the EWS Transition Plan. The EWS Transition Plan shall incorporate, without duplication of fees or expenses payable by the Service Recipient, all agreements with respect to such matters as shall be set forth in the Schedules.
EWS Transition Plan
          (d) If either Party from time to time determines that a modification to the SNI Transition Plan or EWS Transition Plan is reasonably necessary, then such Party may give written notice thereof to the other Party in accordance with Section 11.01 hereof and the Parties will negotiate in good faith, on an arms'-length basis, to attempt to agree on terms and conditions in respect of such requested modification, including any fees or expenses payable in connection therewith. Any modification within the subject matter of a request for Additional EWS Scheduled Services pursuant to Section 2.03 shall be
 
governed exclusively by Section 2.03. Any modification within the subject matter of a request for Additional SNI Scheduled Services pursuant to Section 2.04 shall be governed exclusively by Section 2.04.
     SECTION 2.11. .
Insurance
          (a) During the term of this Agreement, each Party shall obtain and maintain the following insurance: (i) Commercial General Liability with combined single limit of not less than $1,000,000 each occurrence for bodily injury and property damage; (ii) Worker's Compensation in amounts required by applicable law and Employer's Liability with a limit of at least $1,000,000 each accident; and (iii) Automobile Liability including coverage for owned/leased, non-owned or hired automobiles with combined single limit of not less than $1,000,000 each accident.
          (b) All insurance policies obtained from U.S. insurers shall be maintained with companies rated A or better by Best's Key Rating Guide, and each party shall, upon request, provide the other party with an insurance certificate confirming compliance with the requirements of this Section 2.11(b).
          (c) Each Party shall exercise its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain from the insurance companies providing the coverage required by this Agreement waivers of their rights to subrogation against the other Party, its Subsidiaries, assignees, officers, directors and employees.
     SECTION 3.01. . The fees and expenses for each of the Services to be provided hereunder shall be as set forth in the Schedules and Transition Plans; provided that the applicable fees shall be as set forth on the Rate Card attached hereto as in the event not otherwise specified in a Schedule. The amount of each fee for Services set forth in the Schedules shall increase automatically by an amount equal to 3.5% of such fee on January 1, 2009 and each January 1st thereafter until this Agreement or the applicable Service is terminated in accordance with the terms hereof.
Fees and Expenses
Schedule 3.01
     SECTION 3.02. . Amounts payable in respect of Services under this Agreement shall be invoiced to the Party receiving such Services monthly in arrears and paid to the Party providing such Services, as directed by such providing Party, which amounts shall be due within 30 days after the date of invoice. All amounts due and payable hereunder shall be invoiced and, except as set forth in any Schedule or Transition Plan, paid in U.S. dollars without offset, set-off, deduction or counterclaim, however arising.
Billing and Payment; No Set-off
     SECTION 3.03. . In order to provide the Services, the Parties acknowledge and agree that it may be necessary for a Service Provider to pay third party suppliers or vendors incremental or other costs and expenses or new costs or expenses, other than and in addition to the costs and expenses payable to third party suppliers or vendors expressly described in Schedules or Transition Plans, incidental to providing the Services, including programming fees, maintenance fees, initiation and set up costs and license fees and costs associated with any third party intellectual property (all such costs and expenses, the ""). Unless specified otherwise in the applicable Schedule(s), all such amounts shall be included in the amounts payable by the Party receiving the applicable Services pursuant to Section 3.02.
Third Party Vendor Costs
Third Party Vendor Costs
 
     SECTION 3.04. .
Additional Costs
          (a) SNI shall reimburse EWS for the costs designated in each Schedule or Transition Plan as reimbursable by SNI. If it is necessary for any EWS Service Provider to incur any additional costs in connection with the provision of the EWS Services, other than any Third Party Vendor Costs (which Third Party Vendor Costs are governed by Section 3.03), EWS shall inform SNI of such need before any such additional cost is incurred. Upon mutual written agreement of SNI and EWS, as to the necessity of any such increase, subject to the remainder of this Section 3.04(a), SNI shall pay to EWS, upon completion of the related EWS Services, an amount equal to the estimated costs and expenses to be reasonably incurred in connection therewith. If the actual costs and expenses incurred by such EWS Service Provider are greater than the estimated costs, the necessity of increased costs shall again be subject to the mutual written agreement of the Parties, and if the Parties cannot agree, (i) SNI shall pay to EWS an amount equal to the estimated costs and expenses and (ii) EWS shall not receive payment or reimbursement for any such increased costs in connection with the provision of such EWS Service to the extent not previously agreed upon by the Parties. If the actual costs and expenses incurred by such EWS Service Provider are less than the estimated costs and expenses, SNI shall pay to EWS an amount equal to the actual costs and expenses.
          (b) EWS shall reimburse SNI for the costs designated in each Schedule or Transition Plan as reimbursable by EWS. If it is necessary for any SNI Service Provider to incur any additional costs in connection with the provision of the SNI Services, other than any Third Party Vendor Costs (which Third Party Vendor Costs are governed by Section 3.03), SNI shall inform EWS of such need before any such additional cost is incurred. Upon mutual written agreement of EWS and SNI, as to the necessity of any such increase, subject to the remainder of this Section 3.04(a), EWS shall pay to SNI, upon completion of the related SNI Services, an amount equal to the estimated costs and expenses to be reasonably incurred in connection therewith. If the actual costs and expenses incurred by such SNI Service Provider are greater than the estimated costs, the necessity of increased costs shall again be subject to the mutual written agreement of the Parties, and if the Parties cannot agree, (i) EWS shall pay to SNI an amount equal to the estimated costs and expenses and (ii) SNI shall not receive payment or reimbursement for any such increased costs in connection with the provision of such SNI Service to the extent not previously agreed upon by the Parties. If the actual costs and expenses incurred by such SNI Service Provider are less than the estimated costs and expenses, EWS shall pay to SNI an amount equal to the actual costs and expenses.
     SECTION 3.05. . Late payments shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Prime Rate plus 2%.
Late Payments
     SECTION 3.06. .
Tax Matters
          (a) Each Party in its capacity as Service Recipient shall pay or cause to be paid all sales, service, valued added, use, excise, occupation and other similar taxes and duties (together in each case with all interest, penalties, fines and additions thereto) that are assessed against either Party on the provision of Services as a whole, or any particular Service (including with respect to amounts paid by the Service Provider to third parties), including Additional EWS Scheduled Services or Additional SNI Scheduled Services, as applicable, received by any applicable Service Recipient or any members of its Group from any Service Provider or any members of its Group pursuant to the terms of this Agreement (collectively, ""). If required under applicable Law (or in the case of Service Taxes relating to amounts paid by the Service Provider to third parties), each Service Provider shall invoice the Service Recipient for the full amount of all Service Taxes, and such Service Recipient shall pay, in addition to the other amounts required to be paid pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, such Service Taxes to such Service Provider.
Service Taxes
 
          (b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, each Service Provider shall not be liable for any claim in respect of Services relating to Taxes or Tax Returns of the Service Recipient or any other member of its Group, except to the extent that such claim arises from the willful misconduct or gross negligence of such Service Provider.
     SECTION 4.01. . This Agreement shall commence on the Distribution Date and unless terminated earlier in accordance with this Article IV, will terminate on the earlier to occur of (a) the second anniversary of the Distribution Date and (b) the date on which the terms of all the Schedules have expired or been terminated.
Term
     SECTION 4.02. . In the event that pursuant to Section 2.08, a Service Provider reduces or suspends the provision of any Service due to a Force Majeure Event and such reduction or suspension continues for 15 days, the other Party may immediately terminate the applicable Service, upon written notice and without any reimbursement obligation.
Force Majeure Event Early Termination of Services
     SECTION 4.03. .
Early Termination of this Agreement
          (a) This Agreement may be terminated by (x) the mutual written consent of each Party, (y) as may be set forth in the applicable Schedule or (z) by a Party (a "") upon written notice to the other Party if:
Non Defaulting Party
          (i) the other Party fails in any material respect to perform its obligations under or breaches in any material respect this Agreement (the "") and such failure to perform or breach of an obligation is not cured within 30 days of the date on which written notice is received by the Defaulting Party setting forth in reasonable detail the manner in which the Defaulting Party failed to perform its obligations hereunder and stating that the Non-Defaulting Party intends to terminate this Agreement with respect to the Defaulting Party if such failure or breach is not cured within 30 days of such notice; or
Defaulting Party
          (ii) the other Party makes a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, becomes insolvent, or has a receiver appointed or reorganization or arrangement proceedings approved by a court.
          (b) Any Service or Services provided hereunder may be terminated by a Service Recipient upon 30 days' prior written notice (or such period of time set forth in the applicable Schedule, if different) to the relevant Service Provider(s) of such Service or Services for any or no reason; provided, that such termination does not materially adversely affect the Service Provider or the members of its Group.
          (c) Any termination notice delivered by any Party shall specify the effective date of termination and, where applicable, in detail the Service or Services to be terminated.
     SECTION 4.04. .
Sums Due
          (a) In the event of a termination (including any termination pursuant to Section 4.02) or expiration of this Agreement (or Services under one or more Schedules), EWS shall be entitled to the payment or reimbursement of, and SNI shall, or shall cause the other applicable member(s) of its Group to, pay and reimburse EWS, on the date of such termination or expiration (i) any amounts due to any
 
EWS Service Provider under this Agreement with respect to the applicable terminated or expired EWS Service(s) and (ii) any amounts accrued in connection with the provision of the applicable terminated or expired EWS Service(s) through the date of such termination or expiration but not yet invoiced by any EWS Service Provider under this Agreement, as if such amounts were invoiced on the date of such termination or expiration.
          (b) In the event of a termination (including any termination pursuant to Section 4.02) or expiration of this Agreement (or Services under one or more Schedules), SNI shall be entitled to the payment or reimbursement of, and EWS shall, or shall cause the other applicable member(s) of its Group to, pay and reimburse SNI, on the date of such termination or expiration (i) any amounts due to any SNI Service Provider under this Agreement with respect to the applicable terminated or expired SNI Service(s) and (ii) any amounts accrued in connection with the provision of the applicable terminated or expired SNI Service(s) through the date of such termination or expiration but not yet invoiced by any SNI Service Provider under this Agreement, as if such amounts were invoiced on the date of such termination or expiration.
     SECTION 4.05. . Articles I, III, VI, VIII, IX, X and XI and Sections 4.04 and 4.05 shall survive any termination of this Agreement.
Effect of Termination
     SECTION 5.01. .
Third Parties and EWS Services
          (a) EWS and SNI shall cooperate to attempt to obtain all Consents (including those set forth on and ) sufficient to enable the EWS Service Providers to perform the EWS Services in accordance with this Agreement for any third party Software or other Intellectual Property related to the provision of the EWS Services; , that, EWS shall not be required to incur any costs in connection therewith. SNI shall cooperate with EWS in obtaining all such required Consents related to the provision of the EWS Services and SNI shall bear any costs incurred in connection therewith, , , that SNI shall only be required to reimburse EWS for those expenses incurred by EWS that SNI has previously approved in writing. Attached hereto as is a list of required Consents for any third party Software or other Intellectual Property known to be related to, and necessary for, the provision of the EWS Services and an estimate of charges to be imposed by third party software providers. In the event that any such Consent is not obtained, then, unless and until such Consent is obtained, during the term of the applicable Schedule, the Parties shall cooperate with each other in attempting to achieve a reasonable alternative arrangement with respect to such third party Software or Intellectual Property for SNI to continue to process its work and for the EWS Service Providers to perform the EWS Services. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, EWS' obligations hereunder to provide the EWS Services that require third party Intellectual Property are subject to such third party granting the applicable members of the EWS Group a valid and enforceable license (or waiving the requirement to obtain a license) to use its Intellectual Property for the purposes described herein.
Exhibits 5.01
5.02
provided
provided
further
Exhibit 5.01
          (b) Nothing contained in this Agreement shall preclude SNI from enforcing any rights or benefits available to it or EWS, or availing itself of any rights or defenses available to it or EWS under any third party agreement pursuant to which EWS Services are being provided to SNI.
 
     SECTION 5.02. .
Third Parties and SNI Services
          (a) EWS and SNI shall cooperate to attempt to obtain all Consents (including those set forth on and ) sufficient to enable the SNI Service Providers to perform the SNI Services in accordance with this Agreement for any third party Software or other Intellectual Property related to the provision of the SNI Services; , that, SNI shall not be required to incur any costs in connection therewith. EWS shall cooperate with SNI in obtaining all such required Consents related to the provision of the SNI Services and EWS shall bear any costs in connection therewith; , that EWS shall only be required to reimburse SNI for those expenses incurred by SNI that EWS has previously approved in writing. Attached hereto as is a list of required Consents for any third party Software or other Intellectual Property known to be related to, and necessary for, the provision of the SNI Services and an estimate of charges to be imposed by third party Software providers. In the event that any such Consent is not obtained, then, unless and until such Consent is obtained, during the term of the applicable Schedule, the Parties shall cooperate with each other in attempting to achieve a reasonable alternative arrangement with respect to such third party Software or Intellectual Property for EWS to continue to process its work and for the SNI Service Providers to perform the SNI Services. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, SNI's obligations hereunder to provide the SNI Services that require third party Intellectual Property are subject to such third party granting the applicable members of the SNI Group a valid and enforceable license (or waiving the requirement to obtain a license) to use its Intellectual Property for the purposes described herein.
Exhibits 5.01
5.02
provided
provided, further
Exhibit 5.02
          (b) Nothing contained in this Agreement shall preclude EWS from enforcing any rights or benefits available to it or SNI, or availing itself of any rights or defenses available to it or SNI under any third party agreement pursuant to which SNI Services are being provided to EWS.
     SECTION 6.01. . If requested by SNI, EWS shall and shall cause each EWS Service Provider to permit the SNI Group members reasonable access (in addition to the access required by Section 8.04) to its respective books, records, accountants (and EWS shall exercise commercially reasonable efforts to provide such access to its accountants' work papers), personnel and facilities for the purpose of SNI's testing and verification of the effectiveness of each EWS Service Provider's controls with respect to EWS Services as is reasonably necessary to enable the management of SNI to comply with its obligations under SOX 404 and to enable SNI's independent public accounting firm to attest to and report on the assessment of the management of SNI in accordance with SOX 404 and Accounting Standard No. 5, as amended, or as required by SNI's external auditors; , that, except as set forth in Section 8.04, EWS shall not be required to furnish SNI access to any information other than information that relates specifically to EWS Services.
Access Rights of SNI
provided, however
     SECTION 6.02. . If requested by EWS, SNI shall and shall cause each SNI Service Provider to permit the EWS Group members reasonable access (in addition to the access required by Section 8.04) to its respective books, records, accountants (and SNI shall exercise commercially reasonable efforts to provide such access to its accountants' work papers), personnel and facilities for the purpose of EWS' testing and verification of the effectiveness of each SNI Service Provider's controls with respect to SNI Services as is reasonably necessary to enable the management of EWS to comply with its obligations under SOX 404 and to enable EWS' independent public accounting firm to attest to and report on the assessment of the management of EWS in accordance with SOX 404 and Accounting Standard No. 5, as amended, or as required by EWS' external auditors; , that, except as set forth in Section 8.04, SNI shall not be required to furnish EWS access to any information other than Information that relates specifically to SNI Services.
Access Rights of EWS
provided, however
 
     SECTION 6.03. . Without limiting the generality of, and in order to give effect to, the foregoing provisions of Article VI:
Procedures
          (a) the Parties shall cooperate from time to time to identify the significant processes provided by each Party to the other Party in connection with the provision of the Services hereunder;
          (b) each Party shall develop and maintain comprehensive procedures to adequately test, evaluate and document the design and effectiveness of its controls over such significant processes;
          (c) each Party as Service Provider shall provide to the other Party, its auditors and any third party that such other Party has retained to assist it with its SOX 404 compliance (subject to such third party's having signed an appropriate confidentiality agreement with the Party that is providing the relevant Information), as soon as practical but no later than the 15th day of the month following each fiscal quarter end during which the Service Provider provided a Service comprising a significant process to the other Party, adequate documentation with respect to the testing of its controls over the significant processes;
          (d) in the event any deficiencies are found as a result of the testing, the Service Provider will notify the Service Recipient of such deficiencies as soon as practical but no later than the 15th day of the month following each fiscal quarter end, and the Service Provider and the Service Recipient shall cooperate in good faith to develop and implement commercially reasonable action plans and timetables to remedy such deficiencies and/or implement adequate compensating controls; , that if a Party as Service Provider provides a substantially similar service for itself or its Subsidiaries, then such Party as Service Provider shall not be required to take any actions that are different from the actions that such Party is taking with respect to such services that it provides for itself or its Subsidiaries, unless the control deficiency is or could reasonably be expected to be a material weakness in the Service Recipients' internal control over financial reporting (and the Service Recipient shall share its analysis in this regard with the Service Provider), in which case the Service Provider shall cooperate in good faith with the Service Recipient to develop and implement in a timely fashion commercially reasonable action plans and timetables to remedy the deficiency and/or implement adequate compensating controls such that the deficiency will not rise to the level of a material weakness; , that, if, as a result of such remedy and/or implementation, the Service Provider is required to take actions that are different than the actions that the Service Provider is taking with respect to the substantially similar services that it provides for itself or its Subsidiaries, the Service Recipient shall be obligated to fund the incremental costs incurred by the Service Provider, including all out of pocket incremental costs, plus a reasonable allocation of costs of employees who are diverted from providing services that such employees would otherwise be providing to the Service Provider during the period of such remedy and/or implementation;
provided, however
provided further
          (e) the Service Provider shall, if requested by the Service Recipient, make its personnel and testing and documentation available to the auditors of the Service Recipient to enable such auditors to attest to and report on the assessment of internal control over financial reporting of the management of the Service Recipient, and the Service Provider shall cooperate and assist the Service Recipient's auditors in performing any process walkthroughs and process testing that such auditor may request of the significant processes; and
          (f) each Party as Service Provider shall provide written notice to the other Party, as soon as practical but no later than the 15th day of the month following each fiscal quarter end, of any significant change in control design by such Party or any of its other Group members during any fiscal quarter during the term of this Agreement.
 
     SECTION 7.01. . Each Party shall designate one or more individuals who have practical knowledge and experience in each area of such Party's operations that relate to the Services and are authorized to make decisions with respect to the Services (each a ""). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, and subject to the foregoing provision, each Transition Team will include individuals from such Party and its Subsidiaries whose experience includes, as applicable, the following areas: (i) information technology systems, (ii) human resources, (iii) accounting and finance, (iv) risk management and insurance, (v) tax, (vi) corporate development, (vii) financial services center, (viii) treasury, (ix) payroll, (x) real estate and facilities, (xi) product supplies and (xii) SEC and financial reporting. Each Party shall designate a member of its Transition Team as the leader of its respective Transition Team (each a ""). The initial members of the Transition Team and the Team Leader for each of EWS and SNI are set forth on , including each such person's title, areas of expertise and relevant telephone, fax and email information. Each Team Leader shall coordinate the assignment of persons to its Transition Team and shall assess and monitor the performance of the Transition Services. The Transition Teams will be responsible for overseeing the completion of the Services in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof.
Appointment of Transition Teams
Transition Team
Team Leader
Exhibit 7.01
     SECTION 7.02. . The Transition Teams shall convene meetings on a mutually agreed upon periodic basis as required. It is the expectation of the Parties that the Transition Team members shall communicate directly with one another and work directly with one another to ensure that all Transition Services are completed on a timely and complete basis; provided that, (i) except for EWS' Team Leader, the members of EWS' Transition Team shall not have the legal authority to make or to modify any obligation or to waive any right on behalf of any EWS Service Provider and (ii) except for a SNI's Team Leader, the members of SNI's Transition Team shall not have the legal authority to make or to modify any obligation or to waive any right on behalf of any SNI Service Provider. The Team Leaders shall meet on such mutually agreed upon periodic basis as required, to discuss the status of the Transition Services, as well as to answer questions, gather information and resolve disputes that may occur from time to time. All meetings pursuant to this Section 7.02 may be face-to-face, video or telephonic meetings as may be agreed upon by the individuals participating is such meeting. Each Party shall bear all costs and expenses of such Party's Transition Team related to attending or participating in Transition Team meetings.
Transition Team Actions
     SECTION 8.01. .
Confidentiality Obligations
          (a) . Each Party acknowledges that such Party has in its possession, and in connection with this Agreement such Party will receive, Information of the other Party that is not available to the general public and may constitute, contain or include material non-public Information of the other Party. Subject to Section 8.01(c) and Section 8.01(d), as of the Distribution Date, each Party, on behalf of itself and each other member of its Group, agrees to hold, and to cause its respective directors, officers, employees, agents, third-party contractors, vendors, accountants, counsel and other advisors and representatives to hold, in strict confidence, with at least the same degree of care that such Party applies to its own confidential and proprietary Information pursuant to its applicable policies and procedures in effect as of the Distribution Date, all Information concerning the other Party (or its Business) and the other members of such other Party's Group (or their respective Business) that is either in its possession (including Information in its possession prior to the Distribution Date) or furnished by the other Party or
General
 
the other members of such other Party's Group or their respective directors, officers, employees, agents, third-party contractors, vendors, accountants, counsel and other advisors and representatives at any time pursuant to this Agreement, and will not use such Information other than for such purposes as may be expressly permitted hereunder, except, in each case, to the extent that such Information: (i) is or becomes available to the general public, other than as a result of a disclosure by such Party or the other members of such Party's Group or any of their respective directors, officers, employees, agents, third-party contractors, vendors, accountants, counsel and other advisors and representatives in breach of this Agreement; (ii) was or becomes available to such Party or the other members of such Party's Group on a non-confidential basis from a source other than the other Party or the other members of such other Party's Group, , that, the source of such Information was not bound by a confidentiality obligation with respect to such Information, or otherwise prohibited from transmitting the Information to such Party or the other members of such Party's Group by a contractual, legal or fiduciary obligation; or (iii) is independently generated by such Party or the other members of such Party's Group without use of or reference to any proprietary or confidential Information of the other Party.
provided
          (b) . Following the Distribution Date, each Party agrees not to release or disclose, or permit to be released or disclosed, any Information of the other Party to any other Person, except its directors, officers, employees, agents, third-party contractors, vendors, accountants, counsel, lenders, investors and other advisors and representatives who need to know such Information pursuant to this Agreement, and except in compliance with Section 8.01(c). Each Party shall advise its directors, officers, employees, agents, third-party contractors, vendors, accountants, counsel, lenders, investors and other advisors and representatives who have been provided with such Information of such Party's confidentiality obligations hereunder and that such Information may constitute, contain or include material non-public Information of the other Party. Following the Distribution Date, each Party shall, and shall cause, its directors, officers, employees, agents, third-party contractors, vendors, accountants, counsel, lenders, investors and other advisors and representatives who have been provided with such Information to use such Information only in accordance with (i) the terms of this Agreement and (ii) applicable Law (including federal and state securities Laws). Following the Distribution Date, each Party shall promptly, after receiving a written request of the other Party, return to the other Party all such Information in a tangible form (including all copies thereof and all notes, extracts or summaries based thereon) or certify to the other Party that it has destroyed such Information (and such copies thereof and such notes, extracts or summaries based thereon), as directed by the other Party.
No Release, Compliance with Law, Return or Destruction
          (c) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event that, following the Distribution Date, either Party or any of its directors, officers, employees, agents, third-party contractors, vendors, accountants, counsel, lenders, investors and other advisors and representatives either determines on the advice of its counsel that it is required to disclose any Information of the other Party pursuant to applicable Law or the rules or regulations of a Governmental Authority or receives any demand under lawful process or from any Governmental Authority to disclose or provide Information of the other Party that is subject to the confidentiality provisions hereof, such Party shall, if possible, notify the other Party prior to disclosing or providing such Information and shall cooperate at the expense of the requesting Party in seeking any reasonable protective arrangements requested by such other Party. In the event that a protective arrangement is not obtained, the Person that received such request (i) may thereafter disclose or provide such Information to the extent required by such Law (as so advised by counsel) or by lawful process or such Governmental Authority, without liability therefor and (ii) shall exercise its commercially reasonable efforts to have confidential treatment accorded any such Information so furnished.
Protective Arrangements
 
          (d) .
Certain Standards and Exceptions
          (i) Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to limit or prohibit either Party from independently creating or developing (or having created or developed for it), or from acquiring from third parties (or from thereafter using or disclosing as such Party sees fit), any Information similar to or competitive with the Information contemplated by or embodied in the other Party's confidential, non-public and proprietary Information, provided that in connection with such creation, development, or acquisition such Party does not violate any of its obligations under this Agreement or any other agreement with the other Party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither Party shall, nor shall it assist others to, disassemble, decompile, reverse engineer, or otherwise attempt to recreate, the other Party's confidential, non-public and proprietary Information.
          (ii) Nothing in this Agreement shall limit either Party's ability to market, develop and provide products or services to others that are functionally comparable to those of the other Party, whether or not based on the same general business practices, concepts, techniques and routines contemplated by or embodied in the other Party's confidential, non-public and proprietary Information.
          (iii) "Residuals" means Information retained in the memory of an employee of one Party pertaining to or resulting from the performance of services for the other Party, excluding, however, Information deliberately memorized to classify it as Residuals. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 8.01, either Party shall be free to use for any purpose Residuals of its employees resulting from their access to or work with Information of the other Party if such Party otherwise complies with its obligations not to disclose Information of the other Party to third parties in violation of this Section 8.01; , that this provision does not grant either Party a license to use the other Party's Intellectual Property.
provided
     SECTION 8.02. .
Non-Solicitation
          (a) For a period of two years from the Distribution Date, neither SNI nor any other member of the SNI Group shall, without the prior written approval of EWS, directly or indirectly, solicit any employees of any EWS Service Provider who are engaged in or were engaged in providing Services during the term of this Agreement, to terminate their relationship with any of the EWS Service Providers. The foregoing shall not apply to any solicitation of any employee or employment of any employee of any EWS Service Provider who (i) initially contacted any member of the SNI Group or their representatives on his or her own initiative without any solicitation by any member of the SNI Group or their representatives, (ii) responded to a solicitation directed at the public in general through advertisement or similar means not targeted specifically at such employee or the business of the EWS Service Provider or (iii) was referred to any member of the SNI Group or their representatives, as applicable, by search firms, employment agencies or other similar entities provided that such entities have not been specifically instructed by any member of the SNI Group or their representatives to solicit such employee.
          (b) For a period of two years from the Distribution Date, neither EWS nor any other member of the EWS Group shall, without the prior written approval of SNI, directly or indirectly, solicit any employees of any SNI Service Provider who are engaged in or were engaged in providing Services during the term of this Agreement, to terminate their relationship with any of the SNI Service Providers. The foregoing shall not apply to any solicitation of any employee or employment of any employee of any SNI Service Provider who (i) initially contacted any member of the EWS Group or their representatives on his or her own initiative without any solicitation by any member of the EWS Group or their representatives, (ii) responded to a solicitation directed at the public in general through advertisement or
 
similar means not targeted specifically at such employee or the business of the SNI Service Provider or (iii) was referred to any member of the EWS Group or their representatives, as applicable, by search firms, employment agencies or other similar entities provided that such entities have not been specifically instructed by any member of the EWS Group or their representatives to solicit such employee.
     SECTION 8.03. . Each Party shall maintain records with respect to the Services provided by such Party that are in a form and contain a level of detail similar to records, if any, that are maintained in providing similar services for itself or for such Party's Subsidiaries for a period of the longer of one year after the termination of this Agreement or the applicable period for maintaining such records set forth in the EWS Record Retention Policy in effect as of the Distribution Date, or such longer period as required by applicable Law. During the period in which such Party is required to maintain such records, upon prior written request to such Party, the other Party and its Subsidiaries shall have reasonable access to such records during normal business hours of such Party or its applicable Subsidiary at the place where such records are normally maintained.
Records
     SECTION 8.04. .
Access
          (a) SNI shall, and shall cause the other applicable members of the SNI Group to, make available on a timely basis to each EWS Service Provider such Information reasonably requested by such EWS Service Provider to enable such EWS Service Provider to provide the EWS Services. SNI shall, and shall cause the other applicable members of the SNI Group to, provide to the EWS Service Providers reasonable access to the premises of the SNI Group members and the systems, software and networks located therein, to the extent necessary for the purpose of providing the EWS Services. EWS shall ensure that it and the other EWS Service Providers comply with applicable Law and SNI's security and other policies and procedures, as may be provided to EWS by SNI in writing from time to time. At EWS' request, SNI agrees to, or to cause the applicable SNI Service Provider to: (i) maintain logs of activity of its employees and contractors when providing Services that are billed to the Service Recipient on a hourly basis with respect to any of such SNI Service Provider's systems or databases and (ii) if there is a dispute between the Parties regarding any such Services, allow EWS to audit such SNI Service Provider's usage by employees and contractors with respect to such systems and databases.
          (b) EWS shall, and shall cause the other applicable members of the EWS Group to, make available on a timely basis to each SNI Service Provider such Information reasonably requested by such SNI Service Provider to enable such SNI Service Provider to provide the SNI Services. EWS shall, and shall cause the other applicable members of the EWS Group to, provide to the SNI Service Providers reasonable access to the premises of the EWS Group members and the systems, software and networks located therein, to the extent necessary for the purpose of providing the SNI Services. SNI shall ensure that it and the other SNI Service Providers comply with applicable Law and EWS' security and other policies and procedures, as may be provided to SNI by EWS in writing from time to time. At SNI's request, EWS agrees to, or to cause the applicable EWS Service Provider to: (i) maintain logs of activity of its employees and contractors when providing Services that are billed to the Service Recipient on a hourly basis with respect to any of such EWS Service Provider's systems or databases and (ii) if there is a dispute between the Parties regarding any such Services, allow SNI to audit such EWS Service Provider's usage by employees and contractors with respect to such systems and databases.
 
     SECTION 9.01. .
Warranties and Disclaimer of Warranty by EWS
          (a) EWS represents and warrants to SNI as of the date hereof and at all times during which the EWS Services are provided to SNI, that:
          (i) Subject to the receipt of the Consents set forth on hereof, neither the provision of the EWS Services by any EWS Service Provider, nor the receipt or use thereof by SNI in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof, shall breach, violate, infringe upon or constitute misappropriation of any Intellectual Property right of any Person. Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, of the Separation Agreement and of the other Ancillary Agreements, the provision of the EWS Services will not confer on SNI any Intellectual Property rights, except as explicitly provided herein or therein.
Exhibit 5.01
          (ii) The EWS Services will be performed in a timely manner consistent with this Agreement, as each individual Schedule may require, by qualified individuals with appropriate subject matter expertise, in a professional and workmanlike manner, conforming to generally accepted industry standards and practices applicable to each individual Schedule and in strict accordance with all applicable Laws.
          (b) Except as expressly set forth in this Agreement, the EWS Services to be purchased under this Agreement are provided as is, where is, with all faults, and without warranty or condition of any kind, express or implied, including any warranty of merchantability or fitness for any particular purpose or any other warranty whatsoever.
     SECTION 9.02. .
Warranties and Disclaimer of Warranty by SNI
          (a) SNI represents and warrants to EWS as of the date hereof and at all times during which the SNI Services are provided to EWS, that:
          (i) Subject to the receipt of the Consents set forth on hereof, neither the provision of the SNI Services by any SNI Service Provider, nor the receipt or use thereof by EWS in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof, shall breach, violate, infringe upon or constitute misappropriation of any Intellectual Property right of any Person. Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, of the Separation Agreement and of the other Ancillary Agreements, the provision of the SNI Services will not confer on EWS any Intellectual Property rights, except as explicitly provided herein or therein.
Exhibit 5.02
          (ii) The SNI Services will be performed in a timely manner consistent with this Agreement, as each individual Schedule may require, by qualified individuals with appropriate subject matter expertise, in a professional and workmanlike manner, conforming to generally accepted industry standards and practices applicable to each individual Schedule and in strict accordance with all applicable Laws.
          (b) Except as expressly set forth in this Agreement, the SNI Services to be purchased under this Agreement are provided as is, where is, with all faults, and without warranty or condition of any kind, express or implied, including any warranty of merchantability or fitness for any particular purpose or any other warranty whatsoever.
 
     SECTION 9.03. . In the event of any breach of this Agreement by any EWS Service Provider with respect to any failure by an EWS Service Provider to provide any EWS Service in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, EWS shall, or shall cause the applicable EWS Service Provider to, correct in all material respects such error or defect or re-perform in all material respects such EWS Service at the request of SNI and at the expense of EWS. To be effective, any such request by SNI must (i) specify in reasonable detail the particular error or defect and (ii) be made no more than 90 days from the date such error or defect was discovered by SNI or should have been discovered by SNI after reasonable inquiry.
Obligation to Re-perform EWS Services
     SECTION 9.04. . In the event of any breach of this Agreement by any SNI Service Provider with respect to any failure by an SNI Service Provider to provide any SNI Service in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, SNI shall, or shall cause the applicable SNI Service Provider to, correct in all material respects such error or defect or re-perform in all material respects such SNI Service at the request of EWS and at the expense of SNI. To be effective, any such request by EWS must (i) specify in reasonable detail the particular error or defect and (ii) be made no more than 90 days from the date such error or defect was discovered by EWS or should have been discovered by EWS after reasonable inquiry.
Obligation to Re-perform SNI Services
     SECTION 9.05. . Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary:
Limitation of Liability
          (a) In no event shall either Party be liable to the other Party or its Group (or their respective directors, officers, agents, Service Providers or employees) for incidental, consequential or punitive damages in connection with this Agreement, even if the Party has been advised of the possibility of such damages, and each Party hereby waives on behalf of itself, its Affiliates, and Service Providers and their respective directors, officers, agents, Service Providers or employees any claim for such damages including any claim for lost profits, whether arising in contract, tort or otherwise;
          (b) EWS will exercise commercially reasonable due diligence in its choice of such Third Party Service Provider and EWS will employ Best Efforts to induce or cause such Third Party Service Provider to provide the EWS Services in accordance with the manner and levels agreed to hereunder; and
          (c) SNI will exercise commercially reasonable due diligence in its choice of such Third Party Service Provider and SNI will employ Best Efforts to induce or cause such Third Party Service Provider to provide the SNI Services in accordance with the manner and levels agreed to hereunder.
     SECTION 9.06. . EWS shall indemnify and hold harmless SNI and the other members of the SNI Group (and their respective directors, officers, agents, Third Party Service Providers and employees) from and against any and all claims, demands, complaints, damages, payments, losses, liabilities, costs or expenses (each of the foregoing, a "") arising out of, relating to or in connection with (i) any Action pursuant to which it has been determined that the provision by any EWS Service Provider and/or the receipt by any member of the SNI Group of any EWS Service infringes upon or misappropriates the Intellectual Property of any third party, to the extent that any such Loss is determined to have resulted from such EWS Service Provider's intentional breach, fraud, gross negligence or willful misconduct, (ii) any breach by EWS of its obligations under this Agreement or (iii) any action or omission by an EWS Service Provider in providing the EWS Services hereunder, except to the extent any such Loss arises from the acts or omissions of a member of the SNI Group.
EWS Indemnity
Loss
 
     SECTION 9.07. . SNI shall indemnify and hold harmless EWS and the other members of the EWS Group (and their respective directors, officers, agents, Third Party Service Providers and employees) from and against any and all Losses arising out of, relating to or in connection with (i) any Action pursuant to which it has been determined that the provision by any SNI Service Provider and/or the receipt by any member of the EWS Group of any SNI Service infringes upon or misappropriates the Intellectual Property of any third party, to the extent that any such Loss is determined to have resulted from such SNI Service Provider's intentional breach, fraud, gross negligence or willful misconduct, (ii) any breach by SNI of its obligations under this Agreement or (iii) any action or omission by an SNI Service Provider in providing the SNI Services hereunder, except to the extent any such Loss arises from the acts or omissions of a member of the EWS Group.
SNI Indemnity
     SECTION 10.01. . Except with respect to injunctive relief described below, any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or the breach thereof, shall attempt to be settled first, by good faith efforts of the Parties to reach mutual agreement, and second, if mutual agreement is not reached to resolve the dispute, by final, binding arbitration as set out below.
General
     SECTION 10.02. . A Party that wishes to initiate the dispute resolution process shall send written notice to the other Party, in accordance with Section 11.01, with a summary of the controversy and a request to initiate these dispute resolution procedures. Each Party shall appoint a knowledgeable, responsible representative who has the authority to settle the dispute, to meet and to negotiate in good faith to resolve the dispute. The discussions shall be left to the discretion of the representatives who may utilize other alternative dispute resolution procedures such as mediation to assist in the negotiations. Discussions and correspondence among the representatives for purposes of these negotiations (a) shall be treated as Information subject to the provisions of Section 8.01 developed for purposes of settlement, (b) shall be exempt from discovery and production and (c) shall not be admissible in the arbitration described above or in any lawsuit pursuant to Rule 408 of the Federal Rules of Evidence. Documents identified in or provided with such communications that are not prepared for purposes of the negotiations are not so exempted and may, if otherwise admissible, be admitted in evidence in the arbitration or lawsuit. The Parties agree to pursue resolution under this subsection for a minimum of 30 calendar days before requesting arbitration.
Initiation
     SECTION 10.03. . If the dispute is not resolved under the preceding subsection within 30 calendar days of the initial written notice, either Party may demand arbitration by sending written notice to the other Party. The Parties shall promptly submit the dispute to the American Arbitration Association for resolution by a single neutral arbitrator acceptable to both Parties, as selected under the rules of the American Arbitration Association. The dispute shall then be administered according to the American Arbitration Association's Commercial Arbitration Rules, with the following modifications: (i) the arbitration shall be held in a location mutually acceptable to the parties, and, if the parties do not agree, the location shall be Cincinnati, Ohio; (ii) the arbitrator shall be licensed to practice law; (iii) the arbitrator shall conduct the arbitration as if it were a bench trial and shall use, apply and enforce the Federal Rules of Evidence and Federal Rules of Civil Procedure; (iv) except for breaches related to Information subject to Section 8.01, the arbitrator shall have no power or authority to make any award that provides for consequential, punitive or exemplary damages or extend the term hereof; (v) the arbitrator shall control the scheduling so that the hearing is completed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the demand for arbitration; and (vi) the arbitrator's decision shall be given within five calendar days thereafter in summary form that states the award, without written decision, which decision shall follow the plain meaning of this Agreement, and in the event of any ambiguity, the intent of the parties. Judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having jurisdiction over the
Arbitration Request
 
Parties. Each Party to the dispute shall bear its own expenses arising out of the arbitration, except that the Parties shall share the expenses of the facilities to conduct the arbitration and the fees of the arbitrator equally.
     SECTION 10.04. . The foregoing notwithstanding, each Party shall have the right to seek injunctive relief in an applicable court of law or equity to preserve the status quo pending resolution of the dispute and enforce any decision relating to the resolution of the dispute.
Injunctive Relief
     SECTION 11.01. . All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications hereunder (except for routine communications contemplated by certain Schedules) must be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given only if delivered personally or by facsimile transmission or mailed (first class postage prepaid) to the Parties at the following addresses or facsimile numbers:
Notices
If to EWS, to:
The E.W. Scripps Company 312 Walnut Street Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Facsimile: (513) 977-3884 Attention: Lisa A. Knutson, Senior Vice President of Human Resources
with a copy to:
The E.W. Scripps Company 312 Walnut Street Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Facsimile: (513) 977-3042 Attention: William Appleton, Senior Vice President and General Counsel
If to SNI, to:
Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. 312 Walnut Street Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Facsimile: (513) 977-3922 Attention: Patrick Browning, Executive Director of Vendor and Program Management
with a copy to:
Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. 312 Walnut Street Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Facsimile: (513) 977-5166 Attention: Anatolio B. Cruz III, Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary
All such notices, requests and other communications will (i) if delivered personally to the address as provided in this section, be deemed given upon delivery, (ii) if delivered by facsimile transmission to the
 
facsimile number as provided in this section, be deemed given upon receipt and (iii) if delivered by mail in the manner described above to the address as provided in this section, be deemed given upon receipt (in each case regardless of whether such notice, request or other communication is received by any other Person to whom a copy of such notice, request or other communication is to be delivered pursuant to this section). Any party from time to time may change its address, facsimile number or other information for the purpose of notices to that party by giving notice specifying such change to the other party.
     SECTION 11.02. . This Agreement, together with all exhibits and Schedules hereto, the Separation and Distribution Agreement and the other Ancillary Agreements, constitute the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and shall supersede all previous negotiations, commitments and writings with respect to such subject matter.
Entire Agreement
     SECTION 11.03. . Any term or condition of this Agreement may be waived at any time by the Party that is entitled to the benefit thereof, but no such waiver shall be effective unless set forth in a written instrument duly executed by or on behalf of the Party waiving such term or condition. No waiver by any Party of any term or condition of this Agreement, in any one or more instances, shall be deemed or construed as a waiver of the same or any other term or condition of this Agreement on any future occasion. All remedies, either under this Agreement or by Law or otherwise afforded, will be cumulative and not alternative.
Waiver
     SECTION 11.04. . This Agreement may be amended, modified, waived, supplemented or superseded, in whole or in part, only by a written instrument signed by duly authorized signatories of the Parties.
Amendment
     SECTION 11.05. . In performing the Services hereunder, each Service Provider shall operate as and have the status of an independent contractor. No Service Provider's employees shall be considered employees or agents of the other Party, nor shall the employees of any Party be eligible or entitled to any benefits, perquisites or privileges given or extended to any of the other Party's employees in connection with the provision of Services. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed or construed to create a joint venture or partnership between the Parties. No Party shall have any power to control the activities and/or operations of the other Party. No Party shall have any power or authority to bind or commit any other Party.
Independent Contractors
     SECTION 11.06. . The terms and provisions of this Agreement are intended solely for the benefit of each Party hereto and their respective Affiliates, successors or permitted assigns, and it is not the intention of the Parties to confer third party beneficiary rights upon any other Person except as provided in Sections 9.06 and 9.07 of this Agreement.
No Third Party Beneficiary
     SECTION 11.07. . Neither Party shall be permitted to assign, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, by operation of law or otherwise, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other Party and any unauthorized assignment shall be null and void. Notwithstanding such prohibition on assignment:
No Assignment; Binding Effect
          (a) Either Party's obligation to provide, or right to receive, any Service (or portions thereof) may be assigned, sublicensed, delegated, allocated or contributed, in whole or in part, to one or more Affiliates of such Party within its Group and, to the extent so assigned, sublicensed, delegated, allocated or contributed, the relevant Affiliate shall be deemed the relevant Service Provider or Service Recipient, as applicable, with respect to the relevant portion of such Services; provided that no such assignment, allocation or contribution shall relieve such Party of any of its obligations hereunder. No prior written consent shall be required with respect to any such permitted assignment, sublicense, delegation, allocation or contribution.
 
          (b) Nothing herein shall prohibit, modify or limit the ability of the Parties to transfer or allocate assets and liabilities, as the case may be, to any entity within the EWS Group or the SNI Group in connection with, or in furtherance of, the Separation (as defined in the Separation Agreement) and, to the extent that any such transfer or allocation results in a change of the Party or member of its Group which reasonably should be a Service Provider or Service Recipient with respect to any Service then the Parties shall make such amendments, revisions or modifications to the Schedules as are reasonably necessary to reflect the appropriate Service Provider or Service Recipient, as the case may be.
          (c) Either Party may assign all, but not less than all, of its rights or obligations under this Agreement in connection with a consolidation or merger transaction in which such Party is not the continuing or surviving entity or the sale by such Party of all or substantially all of its properties and assets, provided that: (i) prior to such transaction becoming effective, the continuing, surviving or acquiring entity shall have executed and delivered to the other Party a written agreement, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the other Party, pursuant to which such entity agrees to be bound by all of the terms, conditions and provisions of this Agreement as if named as a "Party" hereto and (ii) no Service Provider or Service Recipient shall be obligated to materially change the nature, scope or volume of the Services it provides or receives, respectively, under this Agreement as a result of any such assignment.
          (d) If either Party assigns, delegates, sublicenses, allocates or contributes all or any portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement to any other member of its Group, then prior to such Party consummating any sale or transfer of a controlling interest in, or all or substantially all of the properties and assets of, such other Group member to a non-Affiliate of such Party, such Party shall cause all such rights or obligations to be reallocated among one or more of the continuing members of its Group by appropriate assignment or assumption transactions such that the Group member to be sold shall no longer be a Service Provider or Service Recipient upon consummation of such sale transaction. The other Party shall have the right to prior review of such re-allocations and the Parties shall cooperate in good faith to resolve any reasonable objections that the other Party may have to such re-allocations and to take such further actions as may be reasonably required to assure that the rights and obligations under this Agreement are preserved, in the aggregate.
          (e) Nothing in this Section 11.07 shall affect the ability of either Party to terminate any of the Services in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
     SECTION 11.08. . The headings used in this Agreement have been inserted for convenience of reference only and do not define or limit the provisions hereof.
Headings
     SECTION 11.09. . Subject to the prior exhaustion of the escalation procedures set forth in Article X and to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law, each Party hereto (i) agrees that any claim, action or proceeding by such party seeking any relief whatsoever arising out of, relating to or in connection with, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby shall be brought only in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio or any Ohio State court, in each case, located in the County of Hamilton and not in any other State or Federal court in the United States of America or any court in any other country, (ii) agrees to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts located in the County of Hamilton for purposes of all legal proceedings arising out of, or in connection with, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby, (iii) waives and agrees not to assert any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such action brought in such a court or any claim that any such action brought in such a court has been brought in an inconvenient forum, (iv) agrees that mailing of process or other papers in connection with any such action or proceeding in the manner provided in Section 11.01 or any other manner as may be permitted by Law shall be valid and sufficient service thereof and (v) agrees that a final judgment in any such action or
Submission to Jurisdiction; Waivers
 
proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by applicable Law.
     SECTION 11.10. . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable under any present or future Law, the remaining provisions of this Agreement will remain in full force and effect and will not be affected by the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision or by its severance herefrom.
Severability
     SECTION 11.11. . This Agreement and any dispute arising out of, in connection with or relating to this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Laws of the State of Ohio, without giving effect to the conflicts of laws principles thereof.
Governing Law
     SECTION 11.12. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original, but all of which together will constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
     SECTION 11.13. . In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between this Agreement and a Schedule or an attachment or exhibit thereto, the Schedule (or the attachment or exhibit thereto) shall prevail.
Order of Precedence
     SECTION 11.14. .
Ownership of and License to Data
          (a) It is acknowledged and agreed that (i) EWS retains all right, title and interest in and to all EWS Data and nothing herein shall create or vest in SNI any right, title or interest in or to the EWS Data and (ii) SNI retains all right, title and interest in and to all SNI Data and nothing herein shall create or vest in EWS any right, title or interest in or to the SNI Data.
          (b) EWS hereby grants to SNI a non-exclusive, royalty free, fully paid-up, non-transferable, worldwide license to use EWS Data solely (i) to provide the SNI Services and (ii) to comply with SNI's obligations under applicable Law with respect to such EWS Data.
          (c) SNI hereby grants to EWS a non-exclusive, royalty free, fully paid-up, non-transferable, worldwide license to use SNI Data solely (i) to provide the EWS Services and (ii) to comply with EWS' obligations under applicable Law with respect to such SNI Data.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.

Exhibit 10.12 Execution Version
 
 
 
 
 
     THIS EMPLOYEE MATTERS AGREEMENT (the ""), dated as of July 1, 2008, by and between The E.W. Scripps Company, an Ohio corporation (""), and Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc., an Ohio corporation and an indirect subsidiary of EWS ("", and, together with EWS, each, a "" and collectively, the ""). Capitalized terms used in this Agreement (other than the formal names of the EWS Benefit Plans (as defined below), the SNI Benefit Plans (as defined below) and other agreements) and not otherwise defined, are defined as set forth in Section 1.01.
Agreement
EWS
SNI
Party
Parties
     WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of EWS has determined that it is in the best interests of EWS to separate the SNI Business and the EWS Business into two independent public companies, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Separation Agreement (as defined below), in order to separate businesses with differing strategic directions, eliminate existing constraints regarding capital allocation, concentrate management focus, allow more tailored management incentives, and accommodate differing shareholder bases;
     WHEREAS, in order to effectuate the foregoing, EWS and SNI have entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement, dated as of June 12, 2008, as amended (the ""), pursuant to which and subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, the SNI Business shall be separated from the EWS Business, and all of the issued and outstanding Class A Common Shares, par value $0.01 per share, of SNI and Common Voting Shares, par value $0.01 per share, of SNI (collectively, the "") beneficially owned by EWS shall be distributed (the "") on a pro rata basis to the holders of the issued and outstanding Class A Common Shares, par value $0.01 per share, of EWS and Common Voting Shares, par value $0.01 per share, of EWS (collectively, the ""); and
Separation Agreement
SNI Common Shares
Distribution
EWS Common Shares
     WHEREAS, pursuant to the Separation Agreement, EWS and SNI have agreed to enter into this Agreement for the purpose of allocating Assets, Liabilities and responsibilities with respect to certain employee compensation and benefit plans, programs and arrangements, and certain employment matters between and among them.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the respective agreements and covenants contained in this Agreement, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
     SECTION 1.01. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Definitions
     "Action" means any claim, demand, complaint, charge, action, cause of action, suit, countersuit, arbitration, litigation, inquiry, proceeding or investigation.
     "Affiliate" means, with respect to any specified Person, any other Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls, is Controlled by or is under common Control with, such specified Person; , , that for purposes of this Agreement, no member of either Group shall be deemed to be an Affiliate of any member of the other Group.
provided
however
 
     "Agreement" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the preamble to this Agreement, including all the exhibits and schedules hereto, and all amendments made hereto from time to time.
     "Ancillary Agreements" has the same meaning as provided in the Separation Agreement.
     "Asset" means any right, property or asset, whether real, personal or mixed, tangible or intangible, of any kind, nature and description, whether accrued, contingent or otherwise, and wheresoever situated and whether or not carried or reflected, or required to be carried or reflected, on the books of any Person.
     "Benefit Plan" means, with respect to an entity, each plan, program, arrangement, agreement or commitment that is an employment, consulting, non-competition or deferred compensation agreement, or an executive compensation, incentive bonus or other bonus, employee pension, profit-sharing, savings, retirement, supplemental retirement, stock option, stock purchase, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, other equity-based compensation, severance pay, salary continuation, life, health, hospitalization, sick leave, vacation pay, disability or accident insurance plan, corporate-owned or key-man life insurance or other employee benefit plan, program, arrangement, agreement or commitment, including any "employee benefit plan" (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA), sponsored or maintained by such entity (or to which such entity contributes or is required to contribute).
     "COBRA" means the continuation coverage requirements for "group health plans" under Title X of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended, and as codified in Code Section 4980B and Sections 601 through 608 of ERISA, and any similar state group health plan continuation Law, together with all regulations and proposed regulations promulgated thereunder.
     "Code" means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
     "Combined Company Share Value" means the average of the volume weighted average of the trading price per share of EWS Common Shares trading on a "regular way" basis as reported on the NYSE for the ten full NYSE trading days immediately preceding the Distribution Date.
     "Control" means, as to any Person, the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities or other interests, by contract or otherwise. The term "" shall have a correlative meaning.
Controlled
     "Distribution" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the recitals to this Agreement, as the same is further described in the Separation Agreement.
     "Distribution Date" means the date on which the Distribution shall be effected, such date to be determined by, or under the authority of, the Board of Directors of EWS in its sole and absolute discretion.
     "DOL" means the United States Department of Labor.
     "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
     "ERISA Affiliate" means with respect to any Person, each business or entity that is a member of a "controlled group of corporations," under "common control" or a member of an "affiliated service group" with such Person within the meaning of Sections 414(b), (c) or (m) of the Code, or required to be aggregated with such Person under Section 414(o) of the Code, or under "common control" with such Person within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(14) of ERISA.
 
     "Estimated Retirement Plan Transfer Amount" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.02(b)(ii) of this Agreement.
     "EWS" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the preamble to this Agreement.
     "EWS Actuary" means Towers, Perrin, Forster & Crosby, Inc. (New York), or any other independent actuary appointed by EWS.
     "EWS Benefit Plan" means any Benefit Plan sponsored, maintained or contributed to by EWS or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates including the EWS Retirement Plan, the EWS RIP, the EWS Reimbursement Account Plan, the EWS Deferred Compensation Plans, the EWS Retiree Medical Program and the EWS Welfare Plans.
     "EWS Business" means all businesses and operations conducted by the EWS Group from time to time, whether prior to, at or after the Distribution Date, other than the SNI Business.
     "EWS Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of EWS, or sub-committee thereof.
     "EWS Common Shares" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the recitals to this Agreement.
     "EWS Deferred Compensation Plans" means, collectively, the Scripps Executive Deferred Compensation Plan and The E. W. Scripps Company 1997 Deferred Compensation and Stock Plan for Directors.
     "EWS Director" means any individual who is a current or former director of EWS as of the Distribution Date and who is not a Joint EWS/SNI Director or a SNI Director.
     "EWS Employee" means any individual who, beginning on the Distribution Date, will be employed by EWS or any member of the EWS Group in a capacity considered by EWS to be common law employment, including active employees and employees on vacation and approved leave of absence (including maternity, paternity, family, sick, short-term or long-term disability leave, qualified military service under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994, and leave under the Family Medical Leave Act and other approved leaves).
     "EWS Group" means, as of the Distribution Date, EWS and each of its Subsidiaries (or any predecessor organization thereof), including those Subsidiaries set forth on Schedule 1.01(a), and any corporation or entity that may become part of such Group from time to time thereafter. The EWS Group shall not include any member of the SNI Group.
     "EWS Indemnified Parties" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 10.1 of this Agreement.
     "EWS Liabilities" means all Liabilities assumed or retained by any member of the EWS Group pursuant to this Agreement.
     "EWS Participant" means any individual who, beginning on the Distribution Date, is an EWS Employee, a Former EWS Employee or a beneficiary, dependent or alternate payee of any of the foregoing.
     "EWS Phantom Stock Unit" shall mean a unit credited under The E. W. Scripps Company 1997 Deferred Compensation and Stock Plan for Directors representing a general unsecured promise by EWS or one of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates to deliver EWS Common Shares or dividend equivalents, if
 
applicable (or the cash equivalent of either), at the time set forth in The E. W. Scripps Company 1997 Deferred Compensation and Stock Plan for Directors.
     "EWS Post-Distribution Share Value" means the average of the volume weighted average of the trading price per share of EWS Common Shares trading on a "regular way" basis as reported on the NYSE for the ten full NYSE trading days beginning on the Distribution Date.
     "EWS Ratio" means the quotient obtained by dividing (i) the EWS Post-Distribution Share Value, by (ii) the Combined Company Share Value.
     "EWS Reimbursement Account Plan" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.03 of this Agreement.
     "EWS Retained Claim" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 9.01 of this Agreement.
     "EWS Retiree Medical Program" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.02(c)(i) of this Agreement.
     "EWS Retirement Plan" means the Scripps Pension Plan (including the Scripps Group Pension Plan).
     "EWS RIP" means the Scripps Retirement and Investment Plan, (including the Scripps Group Retirement and Investment Plan With Match, and the Scripps Group Retirement and Investment Plan Without Match).
     "EWS Service Plans" means, collectively, the EWS Retirement Plan, and the EWS RIP.
     "EWS Share Plans" means, collectively, The E. W. Scripps Company Amended and Restated 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the 1994 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Option Plan, The E. W. Scripps 1997 Deferred Compensation and Stock Plan for Directors, and any other stock option or stock incentive compensation plan or arrangement maintained before the Distribution Date for employees, officers, non-employee directors or other independent contractors of EWS or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates, as amended (exclusive of the SNI Share Plan, The E. W. Scripps Company Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and the Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan).
     "EWS Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan" means the Scripps Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan.
     "EWS Welfare Plans" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.02(a) of this Agreement.
     "Final Retirement Plan Transfer Amount" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.02(b)(iv) of this Agreement.
     "Final Transfer Date" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.02(b)(v) of this Agreement.
     "Former EWS Employee" means, (i) as of the Distribution Date, any former employee of EWS, SNI or a Subsidiary or Affiliate of EWS or SNI, including retired, deferred vested, non-vested and other inactive terminated individuals, now, or in the future, whose most recent active employment with EWS or a Subsidiary or Affiliate was with a member of the EWS Group and (ii) after the Distribution Date, any employee of a member of the EWS Group, whose employment with a member of the EWS Group
 
terminates after the Distribution Date for any reason. Any individual who is an employee of any member of the SNI Group on the Distribution Date shall not be a "Former EWS Employee."
     "Former SNI Employee" means, (i) as of the Distribution Date, any former employee of any member of the SNI Group, including retired, deferred vested, non-vested and other inactive terminated individuals, whose most recent active employment with EWS or a Subsidiary or Affiliate was with a member of the SNI Group and such active employment has ended on or before the Distribution Date and (ii) after the Distribution Date, any employee of a member of the SNI Group, including retired, deferred vested, non-vested and other inactive terminated individuals, whose employment with a member of the SNI Group terminates after the Distribution Date for any reason.
     "Governmental Authority" means any federal, state, local, foreign or international court, government, department, commission, board, bureau, agency or official, or any other regulatory, self-regulatory, administrative or governmental organization or authority, including the NYSE.
     "Group" means the EWS Group and/or the SNI Group, as the context requires.
     "HIPAA" means the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended.
     "HSA" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.09 of this Agreement.
     "Indemnified Parties" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 4.03 of this Agreement.
     "Information" shall mean all information, whether in written, oral, electronic or other tangible or intangible forms, stored in any medium, including non-public financial information, studies, reports, records, books, accountants' work papers, contracts, instruments, flow charts, data, communications by or to attorneys, memos and other materials prepared by attorneys and accountants or under their direction (including attorney work product) and other financial, legal, employee or business information or data.
     "Initial Asset Transfer" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.02(b)(iii) of this Agreement.
     "Initial Transfer Amount" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.02(b)(iii) of this Agreement.
     "Initial Transfer Date" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.02(b)(iii) of this Agreement.
     "IRS" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
     "Joint EWS/SNI Director" means any individual who is a director of both EWS and SNI as of the Distribution Date.
     "Law" means any applicable foreign, federal, national, state, provincial or local law (including common law), statute, ordinance, rule, regulation, code or other requirement enacted, promulgated, issued or entered into, or act taken, by a Governmental Authority.
     "Liabilities" means all debts, liabilities, obligations, responsibilities, response actions, Losses, damages (whether compensatory, punitive, consequential, treble or other), fines, penalties and sanctions, absolute or contingent, matured or unmatured, liquidated or unliquidated, foreseen or unforeseen, on-or off-balance sheet, joint, several or individual, asserted or unasserted, accrued or unaccrued, known or unknown, whenever arising, including those arising under or in connection with any Law, or other pronouncements of Governmental Authorities constituting an Action, order or consent decree of any
 
Governmental Authority or any award of any arbitration tribunal, and those arising under any contract, guarantee, commitment or undertaking, whether sought to be imposed by a Governmental Authority, private party, or a Party, whether based in contract, tort, implied or express warranty, strict liability, criminal or civil statute, or otherwise, and including any costs, expenses, interest, attorneys' fees, disbursements and expense of counsel, expert and consulting fees, fees of third party administrators and costs related thereto or to the investigation or defense thereof.
     "Loss" means any claim, demand, complaint, damages (whether compensatory, punitive, consequential, treble or other), fines, penalties, loss, liability, payment, cost or expense arising out of, relating to or in connection with any Action.
     "Lost Participant" or "Lost Participants" means any individual who, as of the Distribution Date, is a participant under the EWS Retirement Plan or the EWS RIP, whose accrued benefit (in the case of the EWS Retirement Plan) or whose account balance (in the case of the EWS RIP) is not transferred to the SNI 401(k) or the SNI Retirement Plan, and whose current address is unknown on the Distribution Date.
     "NYSE" means the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
     "Option," (a) when immediately preceded by "Old EWS," means an option to purchase EWS Common Shares that is outstanding immediately prior to the Distribution Date pursuant to an EWS Share Plan, (b) when immediately preceded by "New EWS," means an option to purchase EWS Common Shares that is outstanding following the Distribution Date pursuant to an EWS Share Plan ("New EWS Options," together with "Old EWS Options," "EWS Options") and (c) when immediately preceded by "SNI," means an option to purchase SNI Common Shares pursuant to the SNI Share Plan.
     "Participating Company" means EWS and any Person (other than an individual) participating in an EWS Benefit Plan.
     "Parties" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the preamble to this Agreement.
     "Person" means any natural person, corporation, general or limited partnership, limited liability company or partnership, joint stock company, joint venture, association, trust, bank, trust company, land trust, business trust or other organization, whether or not a legal entity, and any Governmental Authority.
     "Pre-Transition Claim Period" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.05(b) of this Agreement.
     "Pre-Transition Claims" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.05(b) of this Agreement.
     "Record Date" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Separation Agreement.
     "Restricted Shares," (a) when immediately preceded by "Old EWS," means EWS Common Shares that are subject to forfeiture in the event that certain terms and conditions are not satisfied and that are outstanding immediately prior to the Distribution Date pursuant to an EWS Share Plan, (b) when immediately preceded by "New EWS," means EWS Common Shares that are subject to forfeiture in the event that certain terms and conditions are not satisfied and that are outstanding following the Distribution Date pursuant to an EWS Share Plan ("New EWS Restricted Shares," together with "Old EWS Restricted Shares," "EWS Restricted Shares") and (c) when immediately preceded by "SNI," means SNI Common Shares that are subject to forfeiture in the event that certain terms and conditions are not satisfied pursuant to the SNI Share Plan.
 
     "Restricted Share Units," (a) when immediately preceded by "Old EWS," means the general unsecured promise by EWS or one of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates to deliver a certain number of EWS Common Shares in the future that are outstanding prior to the Distribution Date pursuant to an EWS Share Plan, and (b) when immediately preceded by "SNI," means the general unsecured promise by SNI or one of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates to deliver a certain number of SNI Common Shares in the future pursuant to the SNI Share Plan.
     "Revised Retirement Plan Transfer Amount" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.02(b)(iv) hereof.
     "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
     "Separation Agreement" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the recitals to this Agreement.
     "Service Crediting Date" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 2.04(b)(i) of this Agreement.
     "SNI" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the preamble to this Agreement.
     "SNI 401(k)" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 4.01(a) of this Agreement.
     "SNI Actuary" means Towers, Perrin, Forster & Crosby, Inc. (New York), or any other independent actuary appointed by SNI.
     "SNI Benefit Plan" means any Benefit Plan sponsored, maintained or contributed to by any member of the SNI Group including the SNI Retirement Plan, the SNI 401(k), the SNI Reimbursement Account Plan, the SNI Deferred Compensation Plans, the SNI Retiree Medical Program, the SNI Retained Welfare Plans, the SNI Retained Retirement Plans, and the SNI Welfare Plans.
     "SNI Business" means all businesses and operations conducted by the SNI Group from time to time, whether prior to, at or after the Distribution Date, including the businesses and operations conducted by the SNI Group as more fully described in the SNI Information Statement and excluding the EWS Business.
     "SNI Common Shares" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the recitals to this Agreement.
     "SNI Deferred Compensation Plans" shall have the meaning given that term in Section 6.01.
     "SNI Director" means any individual who is a director of SNI as of the Distribution Date and who is not a Joint EWS/SNI Director or an EWS Director.
     "SNI Employee" means any individual who, beginning on the Distribution Date, will be employed by SNI or any member of the SNI Group in a capacity considered by SNI to be common law employment, including active employees and employees on vacation and approved leave of absence (including maternity, paternity, family, sick, short-term or long-term disability leave, qualified military service under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994, and leave under the Family Medical Leave Act and other approved leaves).
     "SNI Group" means, as of the Distribution Date, SNI and each of its Subsidiaries, including those Subsidiaries set forth on Schedule 1.01(b), and any corporation or entity that may become part of such Group from time to time thereafter. The SNI Group shall not include any member of the EWS Group.
 
     "SNI Indemnified Parties" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 10.2 of this Agreement.
     "SNI Information Statement" means the definitive information statement distributed to holders of EWS Common Shares in connection with the Distribution and filed with the SEC as Exhibit 99.1 to the Registration Statement or as an exhibit to a Form 8-K of SNI.
     "SNI Liabilities" means all Liabilities assumed or retained by any member of the SNI Group pursuant to this Agreement.
     "SNI Participant" means any individual who, beginning on the Distribution Date, is a SNI Employee, a Former SNI Employee or a beneficiary, dependent or alternate payee of any of the foregoing.
     "SNI Phantom Stock Unit" shall mean a unit credited under an SNI Deferred Compensation Plan representing a general unsecured promise by SNI or one of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates to deliver SNI Common Shares or dividend equivalents, if applicable (or the cash equivalent of either), at the times set forth in the applicable SNI Deferred Compensation Plan.
     "SNI Plan Participants" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
     "SNI Post-Distribution Share Value" means the average of the volume weighted average of the trading price per share of SNI Common Shares trading on a "regular way" basis as reported on the NYSE for the ten full NYSE trading days beginning on the Distribution Date.
     "SNI Ratio" means the quotient obtained by dividing (i) the SNI Post-Distribution Share Value, by (ii) the Combined Company Share Value.
     "SNI Reimbursement Account Plan" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.03 of this Agreement.
     "SNI Retiree Medical Program" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.02(c)(ii) of this Agreement.
     "SNI Retained Retirement Plan" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 4.03 of this Agreement.
     "SNI Retained Welfare Plans" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.01 of this Agreement.
     "SNI Retirement Plan" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
     "SNI Service Plans" means, collectively, the SNI Retirement Plan and the SNI 401(k).
     "SNI Share Plan" means the Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
     "SNI Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan" shall have the meaning given that term in Section 6.02.
     "SNI Welfare Plans" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.02(a) of this Agreement.
 
     "Subsidiary" has the same meaning as provided in the Separation Agreement.
     "Third-Party Claim" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 10.03(a) of this Agreement.
     "Transition Period" means, with respect to each EWS Benefit Plan in which any SNI Group member is a Participating Company, the period of time beginning on the Distribution Date and ending on December 31, 2008.
     "Transition Period End Date" means the last day of the Transition Period.
     "True-Up Amount" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.02(b)(v) of this Agreement.
     "Unvested Old EWS Option" means an Old EWS Option held by a SNI Participant as of the Distribution Date that is not a Vested Old EWS Option.
     "U.S." means the United States of America.
     "Vested Old EWS Option" means an Old EWS Option held by a SNI Participant as of the Distribution Date that is vested or exercisable in accordance with its terms (and with respect to any EWS Employees, without regard to any provision that provides for accelerated vesting upon retirement pursuant to the applicable retirement practices and policies of EWS).
     SECTION 1.02. . Words in the singular shall include the plural and vice versa, and words of one gender shall include the other gender, in each case, as the context requires. The words "hereof," "herein," "hereunder," and "herewith" and words of similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this Agreement and not to any particular provision of this Agreement, and references to Article, Section, paragraph, exhibit and schedule are references to the Articles, Sections, paragraphs, exhibits and schedules to this Agreement unless otherwise specified. The word "including" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall mean "including, without limitation," unless otherwise specified. Any reference to any federal, state, local or non-U.S. statute or Law shall be deemed to also refer to all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, unless the context otherwise requires.
General Interpretive Principles
     SECTION 2.01. .
Assumption And Retention Of Liabilities; Related Assets
          (a) As of the Distribution Date, except as otherwise expressly provided for in this Agreement, EWS shall, or shall cause one or more members of the EWS Group to, assume or retain and EWS hereby agrees to pay, perform, fulfill and discharge, in due course in full (i) all Liabilities under all EWS Benefit Plans (provided, that as between EWS and SNI, SNI shall be responsible for certain of those Liabilities pursuant to Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement), (ii) all Liabilities with respect to the employment, retirement, service, termination of employment or termination of service of all EWS Employees, Former EWS Employees, their dependents and beneficiaries and other service providers (including any individual who is, or was, an independent contractor, temporary employee, temporary service worker, consultant, freelancer, agency employee, leased employee, on-call worker, incidental worker, or nonpayroll worker of any member of the EWS Group or in any other employment, non-employment, or retainer arrangement or relationship with any member of the EWS Group), in each case to the extent arising in connection with or as a result of employment with or the performance of services for any member of the EWS Group, and (iii) any other Liabilities expressly assumed by or retained by
 
EWS or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates under this Agreement. For purposes of clarification and the avoidance of doubt, (x) the Liabilities assumed or retained by the EWS Group as provided for in this Section 2.01(a) are intended to be EWS Liabilities as such term is defined in the Separation Agreement, and (y) the Parties intend that such Liabilities assumed or retained by the EWS Group include the retirement benefits and health and welfare plan benefits under the EWS Benefit Plans for all EWS Employees, Former EWS Employees, their dependants, beneficiaries, alternate payees and surviving spouses.
          (b) As of the Distribution Date, except as otherwise expressly provided for in this Agreement, SNI shall, or shall cause one or more members of the SNI Group to, assume or retain for each EWS Benefit Plan, and SNI hereby agrees to pay, perform, fulfill and discharge, in due course in full (i) all Liabilities in respect of SNI Participants under all EWS Benefit Plans arising prior to and during the Transition Period for each EWS Benefit Plan, (ii) all Liabilities under all SNI Benefit Plans, (iii) all Liabilities with respect to the employment, service, retirement, termination of employment or termination of service of all SNI Employees, Former SNI Employees, their dependents and beneficiaries and other service providers (including any individual who is, or was, an independent contractor, temporary employee, temporary service worker, consultant, freelancer, agency employee, leased employee, on-call worker, incidental worker, or nonpayroll worker of any member of the SNI Group or in any other employment, non-employment, or retainer arrangement or relationship with any member of the SNI Group), and (iv) any other Liabilities expressly assumed or retained by SNI or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates under this Agreement. For purposes of clarification and the avoidance of doubt, (x) the Liabilities assumed or retained by the SNI Group as provided for in this Section 2.01(b) are intended to be SNI Liabilities as such term is defined in the Separation Agreement, and (y) the Parties intend such Liabilities assumed or retained by the SNI Group include retirement benefits and health and welfare plan benefits under the SNI Benefit Plans for all SNI Employees, Former SNI Employees, their dependents, beneficiaries, alternate payees and surviving spouses.
          (c) From time to time after the Distribution, SNI shall promptly reimburse EWS, upon EWS' presentation of such substantiating documentation as SNI shall reasonably request, for the cost of any Liabilities satisfied by EWS or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates that are, or that have been made pursuant to this Agreement, the responsibility of SNI or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates.
          (d) From time to time after the Distribution, EWS shall promptly reimburse SNI, upon SNI's presentation of such substantiating documentation as EWS shall reasonably request, for the cost of any Liabilities satisfied by SNI or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates that are, or that have been made pursuant to this Agreement, the responsibility of EWS or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates.
     SECTION 2.02. .
SNI Participation In EWS Benefit Plans
          (a) . Except as otherwise expressly provided for in this Agreement, and except for the EWS Benefit Plans described in Articles VI, VII, and VIII herein, until the Transition Period End Date, SNI and each member of the SNI Group that presently participates in a particular EWS Benefit Plan may continue to be a Participating Company in such EWS Benefit Plan, and EWS and SNI shall take all necessary action to effectuate each such continuation.
During the Transition Period
          (b) . Except as otherwise expressly provided for in this Agreement, effective as of the Transition Period End Date, SNI and each member of the SNI Group shall cease to be a Participating Company in the corresponding EWS Benefit Plan, and EWS and SNI shall take all necessary action to effectuate each such cessation.
After the Transition Period
 
     SECTION 2.03. .
Comparable Compensation And Benefits
          (a) . With respect to a SNI Employee and with respect to each Benefit Plan, for the period commencing on the Distribution Date and ending on the Transition Period End Date, SNI (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) intends to provide such SNI Employees with compensation opportunities (including salary, wages, commissions and bonus opportunities) and employee benefits that are substantially comparable, in the aggregate, to the compensation opportunities and employee benefits to which such SNI Employees were entitled to immediately prior to the Distribution Date.
In General
          (b) . The terms of each SNI Benefit Plan shall be reflected solely in the terms of written documents duly adopted by SNI, and SNI shall retain the right to amend, modify or terminate any such plan effective as of any date on or after the establishment of the SNI Benefit Plan, to the extent permitted by law.
Amendment and Termination of SNI Benefit Plans
     SECTION 2.04. .
Service Recognition
          (a) . SNI shall give each SNI Participant full credit for purposes of eligibility, vesting, determination of level of benefits, and, to the extent applicable, benefit accruals under any SNI Benefit Plan for such SNI Participant's service with any member of the EWS Group prior to the Distribution Date to the same extent such service was recognized by the corresponding EWS Benefit Plans immediately prior to the Distribution Date; , , that such service shall not be recognized to the extent that such recognition would result in the duplication of benefits.
Pre-Distribution Service Credit
provided
however
          (b) . Each of EWS and SNI (acting directly or through their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall cause each of the EWS Service Plans and the SNI Service Plans, respectively, to provide the following service crediting rules effective as of the Distribution Date:
Post-Distribution Reciprocal Service Crediting
          (i) If an EWS Employee who participates in any of the EWS Service Plans becomes employed by a member of the SNI Group on or after the Distribution Date, but on or before the Transition Period End Date for any corresponding SNI Service Plans (the "") and such EWS Employee has been continuously employed by the EWS Group through the date such EWS Employee commences active employment with a member of the SNI Group, then such EWS Employee's service with the EWS Group following the Distribution Date shall be recognized for purposes of eligibility, vesting and level of benefits under the corresponding SNI Service Plans, in each case to the same extent as such EWS Employee's service with the EWS Group was recognized under the corresponding EWS Service Plans.
Service Crediting Date
          (ii) If an EWS Employee who participates in any of the EWS Service Plans becomes employed by a member of the SNI Group either (A) on or after the date that the SNI Group ceases to be an ERISA Affiliate with the EWS Group, or (B) without having been continuously employed by the EWS Group from the Distribution Date through the date such EWS Employee commences active employment with a member of the SNI Group, then the corresponding SNI Service Plans will take into consideration such individual's service with the EWS Group and the SNI Group, in each case, prior to the Distribution Date, only to the extent required by applicable Law.
          (iii) If a SNI Employee becomes employed by a member of the EWS Group prior to the Service Crediting Date and such SNI Employee is continuously employed by the SNI Group from the Distribution Date through the date such SNI Employee commences active employment with a member of the EWS Group, then such SNI Employee's service with the SNI
 
Group following the Distribution Date shall be recognized for purposes of eligibility, vesting and level of benefits under the corresponding EWS Service Plans.
          (iv) If a SNI Employee who participates in any of the SNI Service Plans becomes employed by a member of the EWS Group either (A) on or after the date that the SNI Group ceases to be an ERISA Affiliate with the EWS Group, or (B) without having been continuously employed by the SNI Group from the Distribution Date through the date such SNI Employee commences active employment with a member of the EWS Group, then the corresponding EWS Service Plans will take into consideration such individual's service with the EWS Group and the SNI Group, in each case, prior to the Distribution Date, only to the extent required by applicable Law.
          (v) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, for the one year period commencing on the Distribution Date the EWS Service Plans and the SNI Service Plans shall provide that no break in service occurs with respect to any EWS Employee or SNI Employee who is hired or rehired by any member of the SNI Group or the EWS Group after the termination of such EWS Employee's or SNI Employee's employment with either the EWS Group or the SNI Group within such one year period.
          (vi) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the employment service with the EWS Group or the SNI Group shall not be double counted or result in duplicative benefits or service crediting under any EWS or SNI Service Plan.
     SECTION 3.01. . Effective as of the day following the Transition Period End Date for the EWS Retirement Plan, SNI shall, or shall have caused one or more members of the SNI Group to, establish a defined benefit pension plan and related trust to provide retirement benefits to SNI Participants (including Former SNI Employees) who on the Transition Period End Date were participants in, or entitled to present or future benefits (whether or not vested) under, the EWS Retirement Plan (such defined benefit pension plan, the "" and such SNI Participants, the ""). SNI shall be responsible for taking all necessary, reasonable, and appropriate action to establish, maintain and administer the SNI Retirement Plan so that it is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code and that the related trust thereunder is exempt under Section 501(a) of the Code. Notwithstanding the above, until the Transition Period End Date, all benefits payable to SNI Plan Participants shall be paid from the EWS Retirement Plan. SNI (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall be responsible for any and all Liabilities (including Liability for funding) accrued under the SNI Retirement Plan during the Transition Period.
Establishment of SNI Retirement Plan
SNI Retirement Plan
SNI Plan Participants
     SECTION 3.02. .
SNI Participants
          (a) . Effective as of the Initial Transfer Date, SNI (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) hereby agrees to cause the SNI Retirement Plan to assume, and to fully perform, pay and discharge, all accrued benefits under the EWS Retirement Plan relating to all SNI Plan Participants as of the Distribution Date (inclusive of benefits paid by the EWS Retirement Plan to SNI Plan Participants following the Distribution Date, but prior to the Initial Transfer Date in accordance with Section 3.01 above, but excluding benefits attributable to Lost Participants).
Assumption of EWS Retirement Plan Liabilities
 
          (b) .
Transfer of EWS Retirement Plan Assets
          (i) The Parties intend that the portion of the EWS Retirement Plan covering SNI Plan Participants (excluding forfeitures attributable to Lost Participants) shall be transferred to the SNI Retirement Plan in accordance with Sections 401(a)(12) and 414(l) of the Code, Treasury Regulation Section 1.414(l)-1, and Section 208 of ERISA. No later than 30 days prior to the Transition Period End Date, EWS and SNI (acting directly or through their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall, to the extent necessary, file an IRS Form 5310-A regarding the transfer of Assets and Liabilities from the EWS Retirement Plan to the SNI Retirement Plan. EWS (acting directly or through its respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall, to the extent necessary, timely file one or more notices (PBGC Form 10 series) regarding the reportable event or events (within the meaning of section 4043 of ERISA) occurring as a result of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Separation Agreement.
          (ii) As soon as reasonably practicable following the Distribution Date, EWS shall cause the EWS Actuary to determine the estimated value, as of the Distribution Date, of the Assets to be transferred to the SNI Retirement Plan in accordance with the assumptions and valuation methodology set forth on Exhibit A attached hereto (the "").
Estimated Retirement Plan Transfer Amount
          (iii) On or before the Transition Period End Date, EWS shall cause a transfer to the SNI Retirement Plan of an amount of Assets, in the form of cash, securities or other property or a combination thereof, from the trust under the EWS Retirement Plan, at least sufficient to fund benefit payments reasonably projected to be required under the SNI Retirement Plan prior to the Initial Transfer Date (the ""). Within 180 days (or such later time as mutually agreed to by the Parties) following the determination of the Estimated Retirement Plan Transfer Amount, EWS and SNI (each acting directly or through their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall cooperate in good faith to cause an initial transfer of Assets (the date of such transfer, the "") from the EWS Retirement Plan to the SNI Retirement Plan in an amount not less than 75% of the Estimated Retirement Plan Transfer Amount minus the Initial Asset Transfer, adjusted to reflect earnings or losses during the period from the Distribution Date to the Initial Transfer Date (such amount, the ""). Such earnings or losses shall be determined based on the actual rate of return of the EWS Retirement Plan for the period commencing on the Distribution Date and ending on the last calendar day of the month ending immediately prior to the Initial Transfer Date. Earnings or losses for the period from such last day of the month to the Initial Transfer Date shall be based on a blended index of the benchmarks utilized by Russell Investment Group to monitor and measure performance of the assets of the EWS Retirement Plan, in proportion to the amounts actually invested as of the date that is as close as administratively practicable to the Initial Transfer Date, but in no event more than five business days prior to the Initial Transfer Date. EWS shall satisfy its obligation pursuant to this Section 3.02(b)(iii) by transferring Assets, in the form of cash, securities or other property or a combination thereof, equal to the Initial Transfer Amount consisting of a pro rata percentage rounded up or down to the nearest whole lot or distributable unit, of all investments (to the extent practicable), under the EWS Retirement Plan.
Initial Asset Transfer
Initial Transfer Date
Initial Transfer Amount
          (iv) Within 180 days following the Initial Transfer Date, EWS shall cause the EWS Actuary to provide SNI with a revised calculation of the value, as of the Distribution Date, of the Assets to be transferred to the SNI Retirement Plan determined in accordance with the assumptions and valuation methodology set forth on Exhibit A attached hereto (the ""). SNI may submit, at its sole cost and expense, the Revised Retirement Plan Transfer Amount to the SNI Actuary for verification; , , such verification process and any calculation performed by the SNI Actuary in connection therewith
Revised Retirement Plan Transfer Amount
provided
that
 
shall be performed solely on the basis of the assumptions and valuation methodology set forth on Exhibit A attached hereto. Furthermore, the EWS Actuary and SNI Actuary shall cooperate in good faith to ensure that any such verification process is performed in a timely manner. In the event the SNI Actuary determines that the value, as of the Distribution Date, of the Assets to be transferred to the SNI Retirement Plan differs from the Revised Retirement Plan Transfer Amount, the SNI Actuary and EWS Actuary shall use good faith efforts to reconcile any such difference. If the SNI Actuary and the EWS Actuary fail to reconcile such difference and (A) the SNI Actuary's calculation is within 2% of the Revised Retirement Plan Transfer Amount, the average of the Revised Retirement Plan Transfer Amount and the SNI Actuary's calculation shall be used; or (B) the difference between the SNI Actuary's calculation and the Revised Retirement Plan Transfer Amount exceeds 2%, the parties shall enter into a letter agreement in substantially the form provided in Exhibit A-1 under which the parties shall jointly designate another independent actuary whose calculation of the value, as of the Distribution Date, of the Assets to be transferred to the SNI Retirement Plan shall be final and binding; , , such calculation must be performed in accordance with the assumptions and valuation methodology set forth on Exhibit A attached hereto; , , , that such value shall be between the value determined by the SNI Actuary and the Revised Retirement Plan Transfer Amount or equal to either such value. EWS and SNI shall each pay one-half of the costs incurred in connection with the retention of such other independent actuary. The final, verified value, as of the Distribution Date, of the Assets to be transferred to the SNI Retirement Plan as determined in accordance with this Section 3.02(b)(iv) shall be referred to herein as the "." EWS shall satisfy its obligation pursuant to this Section 3.02(b)(iv) by transferring Assets, in the form of cash, securities or other property or a combination thereof, equal to the Final Retirement Plan Transfer Amount consisting of a pro rata percentage rounded up or down to the nearest whole lot or distributable unit of all investments (to the extent practicable), under the EWS Retirement Plan.
provided
that
and
provided
further
Final Retirement Plan Transfer Amount
          (v) Within 45 days of the determination of the Final Retirement Plan Transfer Amount, EWS shall cause the EWS Retirement Plan to transfer to the SNI Retirement Plan (the date of such transfer, the "") an amount, in the form of cash, securities or other property or a combination thereof, equal to (A) the Final Retirement Plan Transfer Amount minus (B) the sum of (1) the Initial Transfer Amount, (2) the Initial Asset Transfer, and (3) the aggregate amount of payments made from the EWS Retirement Plan to SNI Plan Participants in order to satisfy any benefit Liability with respect to such SNI Plan Participants during the period commencing on the Distribution Date and ending on the date of the Initial Asset Transfer (the ""); , , the True-Up Amount shall be adjusted to reflect earnings or losses as described below; and , , that in the event the sum of clauses (1), (2) and (3) above is greater than the Final Retirement Plan Transfer Amount (determined after the adjustment to reflect earnings), EWS shall not be required to cause any such additional transfer and instead SNI shall be required to cause a transfer of cash, securities or other property or a combination thereof, from the SNI Retirement Plan to the EWS Retirement Plan in amount equal to the amount by which the sum of clauses (1), (2) and (3) above exceeds the Final Retirement Plan Transfer Amount (determined after the adjustment to reflect earnings). The parties hereto acknowledge that the EWS Retirement Plan's transfer of the True-Up Amount to the SNI Retirement Plan shall be in full settlement and satisfaction of the obligations of EWS and EWS Retirement Plan to transfer Assets to the SNI Retirement Plan pursuant to this Section 3.02(b).
Final Transfer Date
True-Up Amount
provided
that
provided
further
     The True-Up Amount shall be paid from the EWS Retirement Plan to the SNI Retirement Plan, in the form of cash, securities or other property or a combination thereof, and adjusted to reflect earnings or losses during the period from the Distribution Date to the Final Transfer Date. Such earnings or losses shall be determined based on the actual rate of return of the EWS Retirement Plan for the period
 
commencing on the Distribution Date and ending on the last calendar day of the month ending immediately prior to the Final Transfer Date. Earnings or losses for the period from such last day of the month to the Final Transfer Date shall be based on a blended index of the benchmarks utilized by Russell Investment Group to monitor and measure performance of the assets of the EWS Retirement Plan, in proportion to the amounts actually invested as of the date that is as close as administratively practicable to the Final Transfer Date, but in no event more than five business days prior to the Final Transfer Date.
          (c) . As of the effective date of the SNI Retirement Plan, SNI (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall cause the SNI Retirement Plan to recognize and maintain all existing elections, including beneficiary designations, payment form elections and rights of alternate payees under qualified domestic relations orders with respect to SNI Plan Participants under the EWS Retirement Plan.
Continuation of Elections
          (d) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary and except for benefits attributable to Lost Participants described in Section 3.02(e), for a period of at least one year from the Distribution Date, SNI shall cause the SNI Retirement Plan to restore the accrued benefit of any individual who becomes employed by any member of the SNI Group following the Distribution Date and whose employment with the EWS Group terminated on or before the Distribution Date with no vested benefit under the EWS Retirement Plan; , , pursuant to EWS' existing practices and policies, such individual would have been entitled to restoration of such individual's accrued benefit under the EWS Retirement Plan had such individual been re-employed by a member of the EWS Group rather than by a member of the SNI Group.
Terminated Non-Vested Employees
provided
that
          (e) . EWS hereby acknowledges and agrees that it shall cause the EWS Retirement Plan to retain responsibility for, and fully perform, pay and discharge, all Liabilities, when such Liabilities become due, relating to benefits attributable to any Lost Participant in the EWS Retirement Plan as of the Distribution Date.
Lost Participants
          (f) . The assets of the EWS Retirement Plan to fund the accrued benefits of EWS Employees who become SNI Employees, and who leave the employ of the SNI Group and become reemployed with the EWS Group prior to the Final Transfer Date, shall be subtracted from the Final Retirement Plan Transfer Amount and remain assets of the trust for the EWS Retirement Plan; , that EWS causes the EWS Retirement Plan to assume, and to fully perform, pay and discharge, all accrued benefits under the SNI Retirement Plan relating to such SNI Plan Participants as of the date of reemployment with the EWS Group.
Returning Employees
provided
     SECTION 4.01. .
The SNI 401(k) Plan
          (a) . Effective as of the day following the Transition Period End Date for the EWS RIP, SNI shall, or shall have caused one of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates to, establish a defined contribution plan and trust for the benefit of SNI Participants (the "") who immediately prior to the day following such Transition Period End Date were participants in, or entitled to, future benefits under the EWS RIP. SNI shall be responsible for taking all necessary, reasonable and appropriate action to establish, maintain and administer the SNI 401(k) so that it is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code and that the related trust thereunder is exempt under Section 501(a) of the Code. Notwithstanding the above, until the Transition Period End Date, all benefits payable to SNI Participants shall be paid from the EWS RIP. SNI (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall be responsible for any and all Liabilities (including Liability for funding) with respect to the SNI 401(k) and with respect to benefits accrued during the Transition Period.
Establishment of the SNI 401(k)
SNI 401(k)
 
          (b) . As soon as reasonably practicable (but not later than 30 days) following the Transition Period End Date, EWS shall cause the accounts (including any outstanding loan balances and forfeitures, but excluding forfeitures attributable to Lost Participants) in the EWS RIP attributable to SNI Participants and all of the Assets in the EWS RIP related thereto to be transferred in kind to the SNI 401(k), and SNI shall cause the SNI 401(k) to accept such transfer of accounts and underlying Assets and, effective as of the date of such transfer, to assume and to fully perform, pay and discharge, all Liabilities of the EWS RIP relating to the accounts of SNI Participants (to the extent the Assets related to those accounts are actually transferred from the EWS RIP to the SNI 401(k)) as of the day following such Transition Period End Date. The transfer of Assets shall be conducted in accordance with Sections 401(a)(12) and 414(l) of the Code, Treasury Regulation Section 1.414(1)-1 and Section 208 of ERISA.
Transfer of EWS RIP Assets
          (c) . As of the effective date of the SNI 401(k), SNI (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall cause the SNI 401(k) to recognize and maintain all elections, including deferral and payment form elections, beneficiary designations, and the rights of alternate payees under qualified domestic relations orders with respect to SNI Participants under the EWS RIP for the remainder of the period or periods for which such elections or designations are by their original terms applicable, to the extent such election or designation is available under the SNI 401(k) Plan.
Continuation of Elections
          (d) . No later than 30 days prior to the Transition Period End Date, EWS and SNI (each acting directly or through their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall, to the extent necessary, file IRS Form 5310-A regarding the transfer of Assets and Liabilities from the EWS RIP to the SNI 401(k) as discussed in this Article IV.
Form 5310-A
          (e) . EWS hereby acknowledges and agrees that it shall cause the EWS RIP to retain responsibility for, and fully perform, pay and discharge, all Liabilities, when such Liabilities become due, relating to benefits attributable to any Lost Participant in the EWS RIP as of the Distribution Date.
Lost Participants
     SECTION 4.02. . All contributions payable to the EWS RIP with respect to employee deferrals and matching contributions for SNI Participants through the Distribution Date shall be paid by EWS to the EWS RIP prior to the date of the Asset transfer described in Sections 4.01(b) above.
Contributions as of the Distribution Date
     SECTION 4.03. . Following the Distribution Date, SNI (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall retain, and EWS shall have no obligation whatsoever with regard to, all Liabilities under, or with respect to, the Shopzilla 401(k) Plan (the "").
Defined Contribution Plan Maintained by the SNI Group Prior to the Distribution Date
SNI Retained Retirement Plan
     SECTION 5.01. . Following the Distribution Date, SNI (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall retain, and EWS shall have no obligation whatsoever with regard to, all Liabilities under, or with respect to, the health and welfare plans maintained by SNI or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates that are listed on Exhibit B attached hereto (the "").
Health And Welfare Plans Maintained by the SNI Group Prior to the Distribution Date
SNI Retained Welfare Plans
     SECTION 5.02. .
Health and Welfare Plans Maintained by EWS Prior to the Distribution Date
          (a) . EWS or one or more of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates maintain each of the health and welfare plans set forth on Exhibit C attached hereto (the
Establishment of the SNI Welfare Plans
 
"") for the benefit of eligible EWS Participants and SNI Participants. Effective as of the day following the Transition Period End Date for the EWS Welfare Plans, SNI shall, or shall cause one of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates, to adopt health and welfare plans for the benefit of eligible SNI Participants (collectively, the "").
EWS Welfare Plans
SNI Welfare Plans
          (b) . SNI (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall cause all SNI Welfare Plans to (i) waive all limitations as to pre-existing conditions, exclusions, and service conditions with respect to participation and coverage requirements applicable to SNI Participants, other than limitations that were in effect with respect to SNI Participants as of the Transition Period End Date, (ii) provide credit for any deductible, out-of-pocket maximum, and co-payment incurred by SNI Participants under the EWS Welfare Plans in which they participated immediately prior to the day following the Transition Period End Date, in satisfying any applicable deductible or out-of-pocket requirements under any SNI Welfare Plans during the same plan year in which such deductible, out-of-pocket maximums and co-payments were made, (iii) waive any waiting period limitation or evidence of insurability requirement that would otherwise be applicable to a SNI Participant following the Transition Period End Date to the extent such SNI Participant had satisfied any similar limitation under the analogous EWS Welfare Plan, and (iv) provide credit for all benefits paid to SNI Participants under the EWS Welfare Plans for purposes of determining when such persons have reached their annual and lifetime maximums under the SNI Welfare Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any SNI Participant, Former SNI Employee, or dependent thereof, is confined to a facility for treatment at the Transition Period End Date, such persons nevertheless shall become covered under SNI Welfare Plans as of such date, and shall cease being covered under EWS Welfare Plans as of such date.
Terms of Participation in SNI Welfare Plans
          (c) .
Retiree Medical Eligibility
          (i) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, for so long as it maintains the EWS Retiree Medical Program described in Exhibit D attached hereto (or any successor thereto), as it may be amended from time to time, provided that SNI Participants shall be treated consistently with other similarly situated participants in the event of any amendment and/or termination of the EWS Retirement Medical Program (the ""), EWS shall cause the EWS Retiree Medical Program to contain provisions regarding eligibility and service crediting that ensure that SNI Participants who, as of the Distribution Date, were eligible to immediately commence benefits under the EWS Retiree Medical Program under the cost of coverage provisions applicable to retirees, remain eligible for benefits under the EWS Retiree Medical Program after the Transition Period End Date.
EWS Retiree Medical Program
EWS Retiree Medical Program
          (ii) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, for so long as it maintains a retiree medical program established pursuant to Section 5.02(a) above (the ""), as may be amended from time to time, SNI shall cause the SNI Retiree Medical Program to contain provisions regarding eligibility and service crediting that ensure that EWS Participants who, as of the Distribution Date, were eligible to immediately commence benefits under the EWS Retiree Medical Program under the cost of coverage provisions applicable to retirees and SNI Employees who become members of the EWS Group prior to the Transition Period End Date (or such later date as mutually agreed to by the Parties) who, as of such transfer date were eligible to immediately commence benefits under the SNI Retiree Medical Program, are eligible for benefits under the SNI Retiree Medical Program as of the Transition Period End Date. This Section 5.02(c)(ii) is not intended to create any obligation to provide benefits to any retiree, but rather, is intended merely to credit service to the extent such an obligation may exist.
SNI Retiree Medical Program
SNI Retiree Medical Program
 
     SECTION 5.03. . Effective as of the day following the Transition Period End Date, SNI (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall establish a health and dependent care reimbursement account plan (the "") with features that are comparable to those contained in the health and dependent care reimbursement account plan maintained by EWS for the benefit of SNI Participants immediately prior to the Transition Period End Date (the ""). With respect to SNI Participants, effective as of the Transition Period End Date, SNI (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall assume responsibility for administering all reimbursement claims of SNI Participants with respect to calendar year 2009 under the SNI Reimbursement Account Plan.
Reimbursement Account Plans
SNI Reimbursement Account Plan
EWS Reimbursement Account Plan
     SECTION 5.04. . Effective as of the day following the Transition Period End Date, SNI (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall assume, or shall have caused the SNI Welfare Plans to assume, responsibility for compliance with the health care continuation coverage requirements of COBRA with respect to SNI Participants who, as of the day prior to the Transition Period End Date were covered under an EWS Welfare Plan pursuant to COBRA. As soon as administratively practicable after the Transition Period End Date, EWS shall provide SNI (through hard copy, electronic format, or such other mechanism as is appropriate under the circumstances), with a list of all qualified beneficiaries (as such term is defined under COBRA) that relate to the SNI Group and relevant information pertaining to their coverage elections and remaining COBRA time periods. EWS (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall be responsible for administering compliance with the certificate of creditable coverage requirements of HIPAA applicable to the EWS Welfare Plans with respect to SNI Participants. The Parties hereto agree that neither the Distribution Date, nor the Transition Period End Date, shall constitute a COBRA qualifying event for any purposes of COBRA.
COBRA and HIPAA
     SECTION 5.05. .
Liabilities
     (a) . With respect to employee welfare and fringe benefits that are provided through the purchase of insurance, EWS shall cause the EWS Welfare Plans to fully perform, pay and discharge all claims of SNI Participants that are incurred prior to the Transition Period End Date for the EWS Welfare Plans, and SNI shall cause the SNI Welfare Plans to fully perform, pay and discharge all claims of SNI Participants that are incurred after the Transition Period End Date.
Insured Benefits
     (b) . With respect to employee welfare and fringe benefits that are provided on a self-insured basis, except as otherwise provided herein, SNI (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall cause the SNI Welfare Plans to fully perform, pay and discharge all claims of SNI Participants after the Transition Period End Date that are incurred after such Transition Period End Date. Except as provided otherwise herein, from and after the Distribution Date, through such Transition Period End Date, SNI shall reimburse EWS for all self-insured benefit claims paid by the EWS Welfare Plans or EWS that were claims of SNI Participants incurred on or after the Distribution Date, through such Transition Period End Date (whether reported or unreported by such Transition Period End Date). EWS shall submit a monthly written invoice to SNI detailing SNI's Liability for such claims. Notwithstanding the above, after the Transition Period End Date, SNI (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall reimburse EWS for its proportionate share of the Liability, with respect to self-insured benefits under the EWS Welfare Plans that were incurred prior to such Transition Period End Date (whether reported or unreported by such Transition Period End Date), but submitted to, or paid by, the EWS Welfare Plans or EWS during the period beginning on such Transition Period End Date and ending on December 31, 2009 (the "", and such claims, the ""). SNI's share of the Pre-Transition Claims shall be determined separately on a monthly basis for each of the self-insured plan coverages. EWS shall submit a monthly written invoice to SNI detailing SNI's portion of the Pre-Transition Claims. Any SNI Employee, SNI Participant, or Former SNI Employee who is on long term disability leave and receiving long term disability benefits under the Scripps Managed Disability Plan, shall cease being eligible for such benefits at the Distribution Date and
Self-Insured Benefits
Pre-Transition Claim Period
Pre-Transition Claims
 
instead become covered under SNI's long term disability plan at such time. Any SNI Participant, SNI Employee, or Former SNI Employee who is on a short term disability leave at the Distribution Date, and who but for the transactions contemplated under the Separation Agreement would have become eligible for long term disability benefits under the Scripps Managed Disability Plan, will no longer be eligible for such benefits but rather will become eligible for long term disability benefits under SNI's long term disability plan. In the event that SNI pays EWS or any other vendor or provider costs, expenses, or reimbursements for medical expenses of an SNI Participant which were incurred prior to the Distribution Date, EWS shall pay or reimburse SNI for such expenses upon SNI providing evidence of such payment.
          (c) . From and after the Transition Period End Date, SNI (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall cause the SNI Retiree Medical Program to fully perform, pay and discharge all claims of SNI Participants under the SNI Retiree Medical Program that are incurred on or after the Transition Period End Date. From and after the Transition Period End Date, SNI shall reimburse EWS for all claims paid by the EWS Retiree Medical Plan or EWS that were claims of SNI Participants incurred but not paid prior to such Transition Period End Date. EWS shall submit a monthly written invoice to SNI detailing SNI's Liability for such claims. For purposes of this Section 5.05(c), and also for purposes of Section 2.01(b), Liability for retiree medical shall be calculated as the excess of aggregate claims paid over aggregate premiums collected in a particular month. If aggregate premiums collected in a particular month exceed aggregate claims paid in such month, the excess shall be used and carried forward as a credit to the succeeding month and used to offset SNI's Liability in such succeeding months.
Retiree Medical
          (d) . For purposes of this Section 5.05, a claim or Liability is deemed to be incurred (A) with respect to medical, dental, vision and/or prescription drug benefits, upon the rendering of health services or provision of supplies giving rise to such claim or Liability; (B) with respect to life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment and business travel accident insurance, upon the occurrence of the event giving rise to such claim or Liability; (C) with respect to disability benefits, upon the date of an individual's disability, as determined by the disability benefit insurance carrier or claim administrator, giving rise to such claim or Liability and (D) with respect to a period of continuous hospitalization (or any medical or other service or supply performed or provided during the period of continuous hospitalization), upon the date of admission to the hospital.
Incurred Claim Definition
          (e) . For purposes of applying the claim Liability provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) above: (A) recoveries made by the EWS Welfare Plans or EWS prior to the expiration of the Pre-Transition Claim Period with respect to claims incurred prior to the Transition Period End Date, including subrogation/reimbursement recoveries, claim adjustment recoveries and demutualization proceeds, shall be taken into account as positive claim adjustments; and (B) other non-routine claim Liabilities paid by the EWS Welfare Plans or EWS with respect to claims incurred prior to such Transition Period End Date, including Medicare Secondary Payer Liability, shall be taken into account as claim Liabilities.
Treatment of Other Liabilities, Recoveries and Adjustments
          (f) . Notwithstanding the foregoing, SNI (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall use its commercially reasonable best efforts to ensure that any claims experience under the EWS Welfare Plans attributable to SNI Participants is taken into account when determining premium rates for the SNI Welfare Plans.
Claim Experience
          (g) . SNI shall have the right, at its own expense, to audit, or to cause an inspection body selected by SNI and composed of members with appropriate professional qualifications to audit any invoices for the payment of self insured medical claims or retiree medical claims, under Sections 5.05(b) and (c), respectively, in a commercially reasonable manner during normal EWS business hours. EWS shall have identical rights with respect to any reimbursements requested by SNI for pre-Distribution Date payments as described under Section 5.05(b) above.
Audit Rights
 
     SECTION 5.06. . Following the Distribution Date, EWS and SNI hereby agree to cooperate in good faith to ensure that EWS and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates shall retain all Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association Assets (of the Scripps Choice Plan) and any related trusts, and in no event will any such Assets or such related trusts transfer to SNI or one of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates.
Disposition of VEBA Assets
     SECTION 5.07. . SNI shall credit each SNI Participant with the amount of accrued but unused vacation time, sick time and other time-off benefits as such SNI Participant had with the EWS Group as of the Distribution Date. Notwithstanding the above, SNI shall not be required to credit any SNI Participant with any accrual to the extent that a benefit attributable to such accrual is provided by the EWS Group.
Time-Off Benefits
     SECTION 5.08. . Following the Distribution Date, EWS and SNI hereby agree to cooperate in good faith to ensure that EWS and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates shall divide the assets in the trust for the EWS Managed Disability Plan and any related trusts. To divide the assets, EWS and SNI shall use the accounting for the most recent year available to determine the relative expenses for such year for disability plan payments for each of the EWS Group and the SNI Group and use such proportions to divide the assets at the Transition Period End Date for the EWS Managed Disability Plan.
Disposition of Disability Plan Trust Assets
     SECTION 5.09. . With respect to any contributions made to a Health Savings Account ("") on behalf of SNI Employees between the Distribution Date and the Transition Period End Date for an HSA account, SNI will reimburse EWS for any amounts contributed by EWS to HSA accounts of such individuals. EWS will submit a monthly invoice to SNI detailing SNI's portion of the contributions. In the event that SNI sponsors health plans that will permit SNI Participants to participate in an HSA after such Transition Period End Date, SNI will make HSA contributions on behalf of SNI Participants, as necessary. Notwithstanding any of the above, each HSA account is an individual account that is controlled by each individual account holder. The Parties agree that an individual's HSA account is not subject to ERISA, and neither EWS nor SNI will administer any HSA account of an individual.
Health Savings Accounts
HSA
     SECTION 5.10. . To the extent not otherwise addressed in this Agreement, (i) EWS shall retain and assume any Liabilities for severance or termination pay under any plan, program, policy, or practice, applicable to, or sponsored by, any member of the EWS Group, covering any EWS Participant, as of the Distribution Date, and (ii) SNI shall retain and assume any Liabilities for severance or termination pay under any program, policy, or practice applicable to, or sponsored by any member of the SNI Group, covering any SNI Participant, as of the Distribution Date.
Severance Pay Plans
     SECTION 6.01. .
Deferred Compensation Plans
          (a) . Effective as of the Distribution Date, SNI shall, or shall cause one of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates to, establish a non-qualified deferred compensation plan or plans to benefit SNI Participants who have accrued, or were eligible to accrue, benefits under the EWS Deferred Compensation Plans immediately prior to the Distribution Date, the terms of which are substantially comparable, in the aggregate, to the terms of the EWS Deferred Compensation Plans as in effect immediately prior to the Distribution Date (the ""). Effective as of the Distribution Date, SNI hereby agrees to cause the SNI Deferred Compensation Plans to assume, and to fully perform, pay and discharge all Liabilities, when such Liabilities become due, of the EWS Deferred Compensation Plans with respect to all SNI
SNI Deferred Compensation Plan
SNI Deferred Compensation Plans
 
Participants therein. SNI (acting directly or through its Affiliates) shall be responsible for any and all Liabilities and other obligations with respect to the SNI Deferred Compensation Plans.
          (b) . As of the Distribution Date, SNI (acting directly or through a Subsidiary or Affiliate) shall cause the SNI Deferred Compensation Plans to recognize and maintain all elections (including deferral, distribution and investment elections) and beneficiary designations with respect to SNI Participants under the EWS Deferred Compensation Plans for the remainder of the period or periods for which such elections or designations are by their original terms applicable, to the extent such election or designation is available under the SNI Deferred Compensation Plans.
Continuation of Elections
          (c) . For purposes of this Section 6.01, the term SNI Participant shall be deemed to include each SNI Director and each Joint EWS/SNI Director (but only with respect to one-half of his or her deferred compensation account).
Treatment of Non-Employee Directors
     SECTION 6.02. .
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
          (a) . SNI Participants who have accrued, or were eligible to accrue, benefits under the EWS Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan immediately prior to the Distribution Date shall continue to accrue, or be eligible to accrue, benefits under the EWS Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan for the Transition Period. During the Transition Period, all benefits payable to SNI Participants under the EWS Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan shall be paid by EWS. However, SNI (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall be responsible for any and all Liabilities and other obligations with respect to SNI Participants under the EWS Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan during the Transition Period, and shall reimburse EWS for all such amounts paid by it to SNI Participants during the Transition Period.
SNI Participation in EWS Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
          (b) . Effective as of the day immediately following the Transition Period End Date for the EWS Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, SNI shall, or shall cause one of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates to, establish a defined benefit excess pension plan or plans to benefit SNI Participants who have accrued, or were eligible to accrue, benefits under, the EWS Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan on the Transition Period End Date for the EWS Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, the terms of which are substantially comparable, in the aggregate, to the terms of the EWS Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan as in effect on the Transition Period End Date (the ""). Effective as of the day immediately following the Transition Period End Date for the EWS Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, SNI hereby agrees to cause the SNI Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan to assume, and fully perform, pay and discharge all Liabilities, when such Liabilities become due, of the EWS Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan with respect to all SNI Participants therein. SNI (acting directly or through its Affiliates) shall be responsible for any and all Liabilities and other obligations with respect to the SNI Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan.
Establishment of SNI Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
SNI Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
          (c) . Effective as of the day immediately following the Transition Period End Date for the EWS Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, SNI (acting directly or through a Subsidiary or Affiliate) shall cause the SNI Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan to recognize and maintain all distribution elections and beneficiary designations with respect to SNI Participants under the EWS Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan for the remainder of the period or periods for which such elections or designations are by their original terms applicable, to the extent such election or designation is available under the SNI Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan.
Continuation of Elections
     SECTION 6.03. . Effective as of the Distribution Date, EWS shall retain sponsorship of The E. W. Scripps Company Selected Officers Retirement Program and
Selected Officers Retirement Program
 
shall retain responsibility for all Liabilities and fully perform, pay and discharge all Liabilities, when such Liabilities become due, of The E. W. Scripps Company Selected Officers Retirement Program with respect to any individual.
     SECTION 7.01. . The Parties shall use commercially reasonable efforts to take all actions necessary or appropriate so each outstanding long-term incentive award held by EWS Participants and SNI Participants under the EWS Share Plans shall be adjusted as provided in this Article VII.
Long-Term Incentive Awards
     SECTION 7.02. .
Treatment of Outstanding EWS Options
          (a) . As determined by the EWS Committee in its sole discretion pursuant to its authority under the applicable EWS Share Plan and subject to the specific provisions of the governing award agreement, each Unvested Old EWS Option held by an EWS Participant as of the Distribution Date shall be converted to a New EWS Option; , , that from and after the Distribution Date (i) the number of EWS Common Shares subject to such New EWS Option shall be equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (x) the number of EWS Common Shares subject to the corresponding Old EWS Option immediately prior to the Distribution Date, by (y) the EWS Ratio, with fractional shares rounded down to the nearest whole share; and (ii) the per share exercise price of such New EWS Option shall be equal to the product obtained by multiplying (x) the per share exercise price of the corresponding Old EWS Option immediately prior to the Distribution Date, by (y) the EWS Ratio, rounded up to the nearest whole cent.
Unvested Old EWS Options Held by EWS Participants
provided
however
          (b) . As determined by the EWS Committee in its sole discretion pursuant to its authority under the applicable EWS Share Plan and subject to the specific provisions of the governing award agreement, each Vested Old EWS Option held by an EWS Participant as of the Distribution Date shall be shall be converted into both a SNI Option and a New EWS Option; , , that from and after the Distribution Date (i) the number of SNI Common Shares subject to the SNI Option shall be equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (x) 80% of the number of EWS Common Shares subject to the corresponding Old EWS Option immediately prior to the Distribution Date, by (y) the SNI Ratio, with fractional shares rounded down to the nearest whole share; (ii) the number of EWS Common Shares subject to the New EWS Option shall be equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (x) 20% of the number of EWS Common Shares subject to the corresponding Old EWS Option immediately prior to the Distribution Date, by (y) the EWS Ratio, with fractional shares rounded down to the nearest whole share; (iii) the per share exercise price of the SNI Option shall be equal to the product obtained by multiplying (x) the per share exercise price of the corresponding Old EWS Option immediately prior to the Distribution Date, by (y) the SNI Ratio, rounded up to the nearest whole cent; and (iv) the per share exercise price of such New EWS Option shall be equal to the product obtained by multiplying (x) the per share exercise price of the corresponding Old EWS Option immediately prior to the Distribution Date, by (y) the EWS Ratio, rounded up to the nearest whole cent.
Vested Old EWS Options Held by EWS Participants
provided
however
          (c) . As determined by the EWS Committee in its sole discretion pursuant to its authority under the applicable EWS Share Plan and subject to the specific provisions of the governing award agreement, each Old EWS Option held by a SNI Participant as of the Distribution Date shall be converted into an SNI Option; , , that from and after the Distribution Date (i) the number of SNI Common Shares subject to the SNI Option shall be equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (x) the number of EWS Common Shares subject to the corresponding Old EWS Option immediately prior to the Distribution Date, by (y) the SNI Ratio, with
Old EWS Options Held by SNI Participants
provided
however
 
fractional shares rounded down to the nearest whole share; (ii) the per share exercise price of the SNI Option shall be equal to the product obtained by multiplying (x) the per share exercise price of the corresponding Old EWS Option immediately prior to the Distribution Date, by (y) the SNI Ratio, rounded up to the nearest whole cent.
          (d) . As determined by the EWS Committee in its sole discretion pursuant to its authority under the applicable EWS Share Plan and subject to the specific provisions of the governing award agreement, each Old EWS Option held by individuals who are or were serving as non-employee directors of EWS shall be treated as follows:
Non-Employee Directors' Stock Options
               (i) Each Old EWS Option held by an EWS Director as of the Distribution Date shall be adjusted as provided in Section 7.02(b).
               (ii) Each Old EWS Option held by a SNI Director as of the Distribution Date shall be converted as provided in Section 7.02(c).
               (iii) Each Old EWS Option held by a Joint EWS/SNI Director as of the Distribution Date shall be adjusted or converted as follows: (A) one-half of the Old EWS Option shall be adjusted as provided in Section 7.02(b), and (B) one-half of the Old EWS Option shall be converted as provided in Section 7.02(c).
          (e) . Except as provided above, the terms and conditions applicable to the New EWS Options and the SNI Options shall be substantially similar to the terms and conditions applicable to the corresponding Old EWS Option, including the terms and conditions relating to vesting, the post-termination exercise period, and the applicable exercise and tax withholding methods (as set forth in the applicable plan, award agreement or in the holder's then applicable employment agreement). The SNI Options shall be issued under and governed by the terms of the SNI Share Plan. The SNI Share Plan shall provide that for purposes of the SNI Options held by EWS Employees, continued service with the EWS Group from and after the Distribution Date shall be deemed to constitute service with SNI.
Option Terms and Conditions
          (f) . Upon the exercise of a SNI Option, regardless of the holder thereof, the exercise price shall be paid to (or otherwise satisfied to the satisfaction of) SNI in accordance with the terms of the SNI Option, and SNI shall be solely responsible for the issuance of the SNI Common Shares, for ensuring the withholding of all applicable tax on behalf of the employing entity of such holder, and for ensuring the remittance of such withholding taxes to the employing entity of such holder. Upon the exercise of a New EWS Option, regardless of the holder thereof, the exercise price shall be paid to (or otherwise satisfied to the satisfaction of EWS) EWS in accordance with the terms of the New EWS Option, and EWS shall be solely responsible for the issuance of EWS Common Shares, for ensuring the withholding of all applicable tax on behalf of the employing entity of such holder and for ensuring the remittance of such withholding taxes to the employing entity of such holder.
Exercise of Options
          (g) . The EWS Options and SNI Options shall not be exercisable during a period beginning on a date prior to the Distribution Date determined by EWS in its sole discretion, and continuing until the EWS Ratio and the SNI Ratio are determined after the Distribution, or such longer period as EWS determines is necessary to implement the provisions of this Section.
Waiting Period for Exercisability of Options
     SECTION 7.03. .
Treatment of Outstanding EWS Restricted Shares
          (a) . As determined by the EWS Committee in its sole discretion pursuant to its authority under the applicable EWS Share Plan and subject to the specific provisions of the governing award agreement, each EWS Participant that holds Old
Old EWS Restricted Shares Held by EWS Participants
 
EWS Restricted Shares as of the Record Date that remain outstanding immediately prior to the Distribution Date shall receive such number of SNI Restricted Shares as equals the number of SNI Common Shares to which all other holders of EWS Common Shares shall be entitled to receive upon the Distribution. Thereafter, the Old EWS Restricted Shares shall be treated as New EWS Restricted Shares for purposes of this Agreement.
          (b) . As determined by the EWS Committee in its sole discretion pursuant to its authority under the applicable EWS Share Plan and subject to the specific provisions of the governing award agreement, each SNI Participant that holds Old EWS Restricted Shares as of the Record Date that remain outstanding immediately prior to the Distribution Date shall receive such number of SNI Restricted Shares as equals the number of SNI Common Shares to which all other holders of EWS Common Shares shall be entitled to receive upon the Distribution. Thereafter, the Old EWS Restricted Shares shall be converted into New SNI Restricted Shares; , , that from and after the Distribution Date the number of SNI Restricted Shares held by the participant as a result of the conversion shall equal the product obtained by multiplying (i) the number of Old EWS Restricted Shares outstanding immediately prior to the Distribution Date, by (ii) the quotient obtained by dividing (x) the EWS Ratio, by (y) the SNI Ratio, with fractional shares rounded down to the nearest whole share.
Old EWS Restricted Shares held by SNI Participants
provided
however
          (c) . Except as provided above, the terms and conditions applicable to each New EWS Restricted Share and SNI Restricted Share shall be substantially similar to the terms and conditions applicable to the corresponding Old EWS Restricted Share, including the restrictions and the terms and conditions relating to vesting and methods of tax withholding (as set forth in the applicable plan, award agreement or in the holder's then applicable employment agreement). The SNI Restricted Shares shall be issued under and governed by the terms of the SNI Share Plan. The SNI Share Plan shall provide that for purposes of the SNI Restricted Shares held by EWS Employees, continued service with the EWS Group from and after the Distribution Date shall be deemed to constitute service with SNI.
Restricted Shares Terms and Conditions
          (d) . Upon the vesting of the SNI Restricted Shares, SNI shall be solely responsible for the settlement of all SNI Restricted Shares, regardless of the holder thereof, and for ensuring the satisfaction of all applicable tax withholding requirements on behalf of the employing entity of such holder and for ensuring the remittance of such withholding taxes to the employing entity of such holder. Upon the vesting of the EWS Restricted Shares, EWS shall be solely responsible for the settlement of all EWS Restricted Shares, regardless of the holder thereof, and for ensuring the satisfaction of all applicable tax withholding requirements on behalf of the employing entity of such holder and for ensuring the remittance of such withholding taxes to the employing entity of such holder.
Settlement of Restricted Shares
     SECTION 7.04. .
Treatment of Outstanding EWS Restricted Share Units
          (a) . As determined by the EWS Committee in its sole discretion pursuant to its authority under the applicable EWS Share Plan and subject to the specific provisions of the governing award agreement, each SNI Participant that holds Old EWS Restricted Share Units as of the Distribution Date shall receive such number of SNI Restricted Share Units as equals the number of SNI Common Shares to which the individual would be entitled had the EWS Restricted Share Units represented actual EWS Common Shares as of the Record Date. Thereafter, the Old EWS Restricted Share Units held as of the Distribution Date by SNI Participants shall be converted into New SNI Restricted Share Units; , , that from and after the Distribution Date the number of SNI Restricted Share Units held by the participant as a result of the conversion shall equal the product obtained by multiplying (i) the number of Old EWS Restricted Share
Old EWS Restricted Share Units held by SNI Participants
provided
however
 
Units outstanding immediately prior to the Distribution Date, by (ii) the quotient obtained by dividing (x) the EWS Ratio, by (y) the SNI Ratio.
          (b) . Except as provided above, the terms and conditions applicable to each SNI Restricted Share Unit shall be substantially similar to the terms and conditions applicable to the corresponding Old EWS Restricted Share Unit, including the restrictions and the terms and conditions relating to vesting, payment and methods of tax withholding (as set forth in the applicable plan, award agreement or in the holder's then applicable employment agreement). The SNI Restricted Share Units shall be issued under and governed by the terms of the SNI Share Plan.
Restricted Share Units Terms and Conditions
     SECTION 7.05. .
Treatment of EWS Phantom Stock Units
          (a) . Each EWS Director that holds EWS Phantom Stock Units as of the Distribution Date shall receive such number of SNI Phantom Stock Units as equals the number of SNI Common Shares to which the individual would be entitled had the EWS Phantom Stock Units represented actual EWS Common Shares as of the Record Date.
EWS Phantom Stock Units Held by EWS Directors
          (b) . Each SNI Director that holds EWS Phantom Stock Units as of the Distribution Date shall receive such number of SNI Phantom Stock Units as equals the number of SNI Common Shares to which the individual would be entitled had the EWS Phantom Stock Units represented actual EWS Common Shares as of the Record Date. Thereafter, the EWS Phantom Stock Units held by a SNI Director shall be converted into SNI Phantom Stock Units; provided, however, that from and after the Distribution Date the number of SNI Phantom Stock Units held by the individual as a result of the conversion shall equal the product obtained by multiplying (i) the number of EWS Phantom Stock Units held by a SNI Director immediately prior to the Distribution Date, by (ii) the quotient obtained by dividing (x) the EWS Ratio, by (y) the SNI Ratio.
EWS Phantom Stock Units held by SNI Directors
          (c) . The EWS Phantom Stock Units held by a Joint EWS/SNI Director as of the Distribution Date shall be treated as follows: (i) one-half of the EWS Phantom Stock Units shall be adjusted as provided in Section 7.05(a), and (ii) one-half of the EWS Phantom Stock Units shall be converted as provided in Section 7.05(b).
EWS Phantom Stock Units held by Joint EWS/SNI Directors
          (d) . The Phantom Stock Units shall be governed by and paid in accordance with the terms of the applicable EWS Deferred Compensation Plan or SNI Deferred Compensation Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing and Section 6.01(b), any SNI Phantom Stock Units credited under an EWS Deferred Compensation Plan on behalf of any individual shall be paid in cash in lieu of SNI Common Shares (notwithstanding any distribution election to the contrary).
Settlement of Units
     SECTION 7.06. . Each of the Parties shall establish an appropriate administration system in order to handle in an orderly manner exercises of New EWS Options and SNI Options and the settlement of EWS Restricted Shares, SNI Restricted Shares, EWS Restricted Share Units, SNI Restricted Share Units, EWS Phantom Stock Units and the SNI Phantom Stock Units. Each of the Parties will work together to unify and consolidate all indicative data and payroll and employment information on regular timetables and make certain that each applicable entity's data and records in respect of such awards are correct and updated on a timely basis. The foregoing shall include employment status and information required for tax withholding/remittance, compliance with trading windows and compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and other applicable Laws.
Cooperation
     SECTION 7.07. . The Parties mutually agree to use commercially reasonable efforts to maintain effective registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the long-term incentive awards described in this Article VII and the employee stock purchase
SEC Registration
 
plans described in Section 8.04, to the extent any such registration statement is required by applicable Law.
     SECTION 7.08. . The Parties hereby acknowledge that the provisions of this Article VII are intended to achieve certain tax, legal and accounting objectives and, in the event such objectives are not achieved, the Parties agree to negotiate in good faith regarding such other actions that may be necessary or appropriate to achieve such objectives.
Savings Clause
     SECTION 8.01. .
Incentive Awards
          (a) . Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.01, effective as of the Distribution Date, EWS shall assume or retain, as applicable, responsibilities for all Liabilities, and fully perform, pay and discharge, all Liabilities, when such Liabilities become due, relating to any incentive awards established under The E. W. Scripps Company Executive Bonus Plan (or the comparable non-executive annual incentive plan maintained by EWS) that any EWS Participant or SNI Participant is eligible to receive with respect to any performance period that ends on or before the Distribution Date and, effective as of the Distribution Date, SNI shall have no obligations with respect to any such annual incentive awards; provided that with respect to SNI Participants: (i) EWS shall determine the amount of such annual incentive awards earned by the SNI Participants, which awards shall be determined without regard to any discretionary adjustments that have the effect of reducing the amount of the incentive award (other than discretionary adjustments applicable to all similarly-situated EWS Participants), and (ii) such annual incentive awards shall be paid by EWS to the SNI Participants within 75 days after the Distribution Date. Moreover, EWS acknowledges and agrees that, except as otherwise provided herein, it shall have full responsibility with respect to any Liabilities and the payment or performance of any obligations arising out of or relating to any incentive, commission or other similar compensatory arrangement previously provided by any member of the EWS Group or SNI Group to any EWS Participant.
EWS Incentive Awards
          (b) . SNI acknowledges and agrees that, except as otherwise provided herein, it shall have full responsibility with respect to any Liabilities and the payment or performance of any obligations arising out of or relating to any incentive, commission or other similar compensatory arrangement previously provided by any member of the EWS Group or SNI Group to any SNI Participant.
SNI Incentive Awards
          (c) . Effective as of the Distribution Date, SNI shall have adopted or cause to be adopted an annual incentive plan that shall permit the issuance of annual incentive awards for performance periods commencing after the Distribution Date on terms and conditions substantially comparable to those under The E. W. Scripps Company Executive Bonus Plan as in effect on the Distribution Date, provided that the incentive opportunities and performance criteria shall be established in the sole discretion of the SNI Board of Directors or appropriate committee thereof. SNI shall have full responsibility with respect to any Liabilities and the payment or performance of any obligations arising out of or relating to its annual incentive plan.
Establishment of SNI Annual Incentive Plan
     SECTION 8.02. .
Change in Control Plan
          (a) . Effective as of the Distribution Date, SNI shall have adopted or cause to be adopted an Executive Change in Control Plan that provides benefits substantially comparable to the benefits provided under the Scripps Senior Executive Change in Control Plan, as in effect on February 1, 2008.
Establishment of SNI Executive Change in Control Plan
 
          (b) . As of the Distribution Date, SNI Employees shall cease to be eligible to participate in the Scripps Senior Executive Change in Control Plan and SNI shall cause such employees to commence participation in the Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. Executive Change in Control Plan on terms and conditions substantially comparable to those under the Scripps Senior Executive Change in Control Plan as in effect on February 1, 2008, provided that the termination pay multiples shall be established in the sole discretion of the SNI Board of Directors or appropriate committee thereof. SNI shall have no obligations with respect to the Scripps Senior Executive Change in Control Plan, as it may be amended from time to time.
Participation
     SECTION 8.03. .
Individual Arrangements
          (a) . EWS acknowledges and agrees that, except as otherwise provided herein, it shall have full responsibility with respect to any Liabilities and the payment or performance of any obligations arising out of or relating to any employment, consulting, non-competition, retention or other compensatory arrangement previously provided by any member of the EWS Group or SNI Group to any EWS Participant.
EWS Individual Arrangements
          (b) . SNI acknowledges and agrees that, except as otherwise provided herein, it shall have full responsibility with respect to any Liabilities and the payment or performance of any obligations arising out of or relating to any employment, consulting, non-competition, retention or other compensatory arrangement previously provided by any member of the EWS Group or SNI Group to any SNI Participant.
SNI Individual Arrangements
          (c) . The Parties acknowledge and agree that the transactions contemplated by the Separation Agreement will not constitute a termination of employment of any SNI Participant for purposes of any policy, plan, program or agreement of EWS or SNI or any member of the EWS Group or SNI Group that provides for the payment of severance, separation pay, salary continuation or similar benefits in the event of a termination of employment.
Effect of the Separation on Severance
     SECTION 8.04. . As of the Distribution Date, SNI Employees shall cease to be eligible to participate in The E. W. Scripps Company Employee Stock Purchase Plan. SNI has established the Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the terms and conditions of which may be amended from time to time. The Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan shall not be considered a "mirror" or a successor plan to The E. W. Scripps Company Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Participation in the Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan shall be subject to the terms and conditions of such plan and any new elections made with respect to such plan. Participants' elections and other terms of participation in The E. W. Scripps Company Employee Stock Purchase Plan shall not be transferred or carried over to the Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the accounts of the SNI Employees under The E. W. Scripps Company Employee Stock Purchase Plan as of the Distribution Date shall remain under The E. W. Scripps Company Employee Stock Purchase Plan and shall not be transferred to the Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
     SECTION 8.05. . Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.01, EWS shall retain responsibility for the payment of any fees payable in respect of service on the EWS Board of Directors that are payable but not yet paid as of the Distribution Date, and SNI shall have no responsibility for any such payments (to an individual who is a member of the SNI Board of Directors as of the Distribution Date or otherwise).
Director Programs
     SECTION 8.06. . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary (including the treatment of supplemental and deferred compensation plans, outstanding long-term incentive awards and annual incentive awards as described herein), the Parties agree to negotiate in good faith regarding the need for any treatment different from that otherwise provided herein to ensure
Sections 162(m)/409A
 
that (i) a federal income Tax deduction for the payment of such supplemental or deferred compensation or long-term incentive award, annual incentive award or other compensation is not limited by reason of Section 162(m) of the Code, and (ii) the treatment of such supplemental or deferred compensation or long-term incentive award, annual incentive award or other compensation does not cause the imposition of a tax under Section 409A of the Code.
     SECTION 9.01. . SNI shall not assume or retain any workers' compensation Liability relating to, arising out of, or resulting from any claim by a SNI Employee that results from an accident, incident or event occurring, or from an occupational disease which becomes manifest, while such SNI Employee was employed by any member of the EWS Group (such a claim, an ""). All workers' compensation Liabilities relating to, arising out of, or resulting from (i) any EWS Retained Claim or (ii) any claim by an EWS Employee or Former EWS Employee that results from an accident, incident, or event occurring, or from an occupational disease which becomes manifest before the Distribution Date shall be retained by EWS.
Pre-Distribution Date Claims
EWS Retained Claim
     SECTION 9.02. . All workers' compensation Liabilities relating to, arising out of, or resulting from any claim by a SNI Employee or Former SNI Employee that result from an accident, incident or event occurring, or from an occupational disease which becomes manifest, on or after the Distribution Date shall be retained by SNI. All workers' compensation Liabilities relating to, arising out of, or resulting from any claim by an EWS Employee or Former EWS Employee that results from an accident, incident or event occurring, or from an occupational disease which becomes manifest, on or after the Distribution Date shall be retained by EWS.
Post-Distribution Date Claims
     SECTION 9.03. . For purposes of this Section 9.03, a compensable injury shall be deemed to be sustained upon the occurrence of the event giving rise to eligibility for workers' compensation benefits or an occupation disease becomes manifest, as the case may be. EWS and SNI shall cooperate in good faith with respect to the notification to appropriate Governmental Authorities of the Distribution and the issuance of new, or the transfer of existing, workers' compensation insurance policies and claims handling contracts.
General
     SECTION 10.01. . SNI shall indemnify, defend, release and hold harmless EWS, each member of the EWS Group and each of their respective directors, officers and employees, and each of the heirs, executors, successors and assigns of any of the foregoing (collectively, the ""), from and against any and all Liabilities of the EWS Indemnified Parties relating to, arising out of or resulting from (i) any breach by SNI or any member of the SNI Group of this Agreement or (ii) any SNI Liabilities.
Indemnification by SNI
EWS Indemnified Parties
     SECTION 10.02. . EWS shall indemnify, defend, release and hold harmless SNI, each member of the SNI Group and each of their respective directors, officers and employees, and each of the heirs, executors, successors and assigns of any of the foregoing (collectively, the "," and, together with EWS Indemnified Parties, the ""), from and against any and all Liabilities of the SNI Indemnified Parties relating to, arising out of or resulting from any (i) breach by EWS or any member of the EWS Group of this Agreement or (ii) any EWS Liabilities.
Indemnification by EWS
SNI Indemnified Parties
Indemnified Parties
 
     SECTION 10.03. .
Procedures for Indemnification of Third-Party Claims
          (a) If an Indemnified Party shall receive notice of the assertion by any Person who is not a member of the EWS Group or the SNI Group of any claim, or of the commencement by any such Person of any Action, with respect to which an Indemnifying Party may be obligated to provide indemnification to such Indemnified Party pursuant to Section 10.01 or Section 10.02, or any other Section of this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement (collectively, a ""), such Indemnified Party shall give such Indemnifying Party written notice thereof within 30 days after such Indemnified Party received notice of such Third-Party Claim. Any such notice shall describe the Third-Party Claim in reasonable detail, including, if known, the amount of the Liability for which indemnification may be available. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the failure of any Indemnified Party or other Person to give notice as provided in this Section 10.03(a) shall not relieve the related Indemnifying Party of its obligations under this Article X, except to the extent that such Indemnifying Party is actually prejudiced by such failure to give notice.
Third-Party Claim
          (b) An Indemnifying Party may elect (but is not required) to assume the defense of and defend, at such Indemnifying Party's own expense and by such Indemnifying Party's own counsel, any Third-Party Claim. Within 30 days after the receipt of notice from an Indemnified Party in accordance with Section 10.03(a) (or sooner, if the nature of such Third-Party Claim so requires), the Indemnifying Party shall notify the Indemnified Party of its election whether the Indemnifying Party will assume responsibility for defending such Third-Party Claim, which election shall specify any reservations or exceptions. If, in such notice, the Indemnifying Party elects to assume the defense of a Third-Party Claim, the Indemnified Party shall have the right to employ separate counsel and to participate in (but not control) the defense, compromise, or settlement thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be the expense solely of such Indemnified Party.
          (c) If an Indemnifying Party elects not to assume responsibility for defending a Third-Party Claim, or fails to notify an Indemnified Party of its election as provided in Section 10.03(b), such Indemnified Party may defend such Third-Party Claim at the cost and expense of the Indemnifying Party; , that in the event of any such failure to notify, the Indemnifying Party may thereafter assume the defense of such Third-Party Claim upon notice to the Indemnified Party (but the cost and expense of such Indemnified Party in defending such Third-Party Claim incurred from the last day of the notice period under Section 10.03(b) until such date as the Indemnifying Party shall assume the defense of such Third-Party Claim shall be paid by the Indemnifying Party).
provided
          (d) Unless the Indemnifying Party has failed to assume the defense of the Third-Party Claim in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, no Indemnified Party may settle or compromise any Third-Party Claim without the consent of the Indemnifying Party.
          (e) The Indemnifying Party shall have the right to compromise or settle a Third-Party Claim the defense of which it shall have assumed pursuant to Section 10.03(b) or Section 10.03(c) and any such settlement or compromise made or caused to be made of a Third-Party Claim in accordance with this Article X shall be binding on the Indemnified Party, in the same manner as if a final judgment or decree had been entered by a court of competent jurisdiction in the amount of such settlement or compromise. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, the Indemnifying Party shall not have the right to admit culpability on behalf of the Indemnified Party and shall not compromise or settle a Third-Party Claim unless the compromise or settlement includes, as a part thereof, an unconditional release of the Indemnified Party from Liability with respect to such Third-Party Claim and does not require the Indemnified Party to make any payment that is not fully indemnified under this Agreement or to be subject to any non-monetary remedy, in each case without the express prior consent of the Indemnified Party (not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed).
 
     SECTION 10.04. .
Additional Matters
          (a) Any claim with respect to a Liability that does not result from a Third-Party Claim shall be asserted by written notice given by the Indemnified Party to the related Indemnifying Party. Such Indemnifying Party shall have a period of 30 days after the receipt of such notice within which to respond thereto. If such Indemnifying Party does not respond in writing within such 30-day period, such Indemnifying Party shall be deemed to have agreed to accept responsibility to make payment. If such Indemnifying Party does not respond within such 30-day period or rejects such claim in whole or in part, such Indemnified Party shall be free to pursue such remedies as may be available to such Party as contemplated by this Agreement.
          (b) In the event of payment by or on behalf of any Indemnifying Party to any Indemnified Party in connection with any Third-Party Claim, such Indemnifying Party shall be subrogated to and shall stand in the place of such Indemnified Party as to any events or circumstances in respect of which such Indemnified Party may have any right, defense or claim relating to such Third-Party Claim against any claimant or plaintiff asserting such Third-Party Claim or against any other Person. Such Indemnified Party shall cooperate with such Indemnifying Party in a reasonable manner, and at the cost and expense of such Indemnifying Party, in prosecuting any subrogated right, defense or claim.
          (c) In the event of an Action in which the Indemnifying Party is not a named defendant, if either the Indemnified Party or Indemnifying Party shall so request, the Parties shall endeavor to substitute the Indemnifying Party for the named defendant, if at all practicable. If such substitution or addition cannot be achieved for any reason or is not requested, the named defendant shall allow the Indemnifying Party to manage the Action as set forth in this Article X.
     SECTION 10.05. . In the event that the foregoing indemnity is unenforceable under applicable laws, the Party from whom such indemnity is sought agrees to contribute, in accordance with this Section 10.05, to cover any Liabilities for which such indemnity is sought. For such Liabilities referred to in Section 10.01 or Section 10.02, as the case may be, the Party from which indemnity is sought shall contribute in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received (or anticipated to be received) by the respective Parties. For any other Liabilities, and if the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is unavailable for any reason, the Party from which indemnity is sought shall contribute in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefit but also the relative fault of the Party from which indemnity is sought in connection with the conduct which resulted in such Liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The Parties agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above.
Contribution
     SECTION 10.06. . The rights and obligations of each of EWS and SNI and their respective Indemnified Parties under this Article X shall survive the sale or other transfer by any Party of any Assets or the assignment by it of any Liabilities.
Survival of Indemnities
     SECTION 10.07. . The remedies provided in this Article X shall be cumulative and shall not preclude assertion by any Indemnified Party of any other rights or the seeking of any and all other remedies against any Indemnifying Party; , that the procedures set forth in this Article X shall be the exclusive procedures governing any indemnity action brought under this Agreement.
Remedies Cumulative
provided
 
     SECTION 11.01. . EWS and SNI (acting directly or through their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall provide to the other and their respective agents and vendors all Information as the other may reasonably request to enable the requesting Party to administer efficiently and accurately each of its Benefit Plans, to assist SNI in obtaining its own insurance policies to provide benefits under SNI Benefit Plans, and to determine the scope of, as well as fulfill, its obligations under this Agreement; provided, however, that in the event that any Party reasonably determines that any such provision of Information could be commercially detrimental to such Party or any member of its Group, violate any Law or agreement to which such Party or member of its Group is a party, or waive any attorney-client privilege applicable to such Party or member of its Group, the Parties shall provide any such Information and the Parties shall take all reasonable measures to comply with the obligations pursuant to this Section 11.01 in a manner that mitigates any such harm or consequence to the extent practicable, and the Parties agree to cooperate with each other and take such commercially reasonable steps as may be practicable to preserve the attorney-client privilege with respect to the disclosure of any such Information. Such Information shall, to the extent reasonably practicable, be provided in the format and at the times and places requested, but in no event shall the Party providing such Information be obligated to incur any out-of-pocket expenses not reimbursed by the Party making such request or make such Information available outside of its normal business hours and premises. Any Information shared or exchanged pursuant to this Agreement shall be subject to the same confidentiality requirements set forth in Section 7.08 of the Separation Agreement. The Parties also hereby agree to enter into any business associate agreements that may be required for the sharing of any Information pursuant to this Agreement to comply with the requirements of HIPAA.
Sharing Of Information
     SECTION 11.02. . Each of the Parties hereto will use its commercially reasonable efforts to promptly take, or cause to be taken, all actions and to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or advisable under applicable Laws and regulations to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including adopting plans or plan amendments. Each of the Parties hereto shall cooperate fully on any issue relating to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement for which the other Party seeks a determination letter or private letter ruling from the IRS, an advisory opinion from the DOL or any other filing, consent or approval with respect to or by a Governmental Authority.
Reasonable Efforts/Cooperation
     SECTION 11.03. . Subject to SNI's obligations pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement, nothing in this Agreement shall prohibit SNI or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates from amending, modifying or terminating any SNI Benefit Plan at any time within its sole discretion. In addition, nothing in this Agreement shall prohibit EWS or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates from amending, modifying or terminating any EWS Benefit Plan at any time within its sole discretion.
Employer Rights
     SECTION 11.04. . No provision of this Agreement or the Separation Agreement shall be construed to create any right, or accelerate entitlement, to any compensation or benefit whatsoever on the part of any EWS Employee or SNI Employee or other future, present, or former employee of any member of the EWS Group or SNI Group under any EWS Benefit Plan or SNI Benefit Plan or otherwise. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, except as expressly provided in this Agreement, the occurrence of the Distribution alone shall not cause any employee to be deemed to have incurred a termination of employment that entitles such individual to the commencement of benefits under any of the EWS Benefit Plans. Furthermore, this Agreement is solely for the benefit of the Parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns. Nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any other person or persons (including any employee or former employee of EWS or SNI or either of their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any beneficiary or dependent thereof) any rights, benefits or
Non-Termination of Employment; No Third-Party Beneficiaries
 
remedies of any nature whatsoever under or by reason of this Agreement. No provision in this Agreement shall modify or amend any other agreement, plan, program, or document unless this Agreement explicitly states that the provision "amends" that other agreement, plan, program, or document. This shall not prevent the Parties entitled to enforce this Agreement from enforcing any provision in this Agreement, but no other person shall be entitled to enforce any provision in this Agreement on the grounds that it is an amendment to another agreement, plan, program, or document unless the provision is explicitly designated as such in this Agreement, and the person is otherwise entitled to enforce the other agreement, plan, program, or document. If a person not entitled to enforce this Agreement brings a lawsuit or other action to enforce any provision in this Agreement as an amendment to another agreement, plan, program, or document, and that provision is construed to be such an amendment despite not being explicitly designated as one in this Agreement, that provision in this Agreement shall be , thereby precluding it from having any amendatory effect. Furthermore, nothing in this Agreement is intended to confer upon any employee or former employee of EWS, SNI or either of their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates any right to continued employment, or any recall or similar rights to an individual on layoff or any type of approved leave.
void ad initio
     SECTION 11.05. . If any provision of this Agreement is dependent on the consent of any third party and such consent is withheld, the Parties hereto shall use their reasonable best efforts to implement the applicable provisions of this Agreement to the fullest extent practicable. If any provision of this Agreement cannot be implemented due to the failure of such third party to consent, the Parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to implement the provision in a mutually satisfactory manner.
Consent of Third Parties
     SECTION 11.06. . Following the Distribution Date, EWS and SNI shall, or shall cause each of their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates to, make available to each other those of their employees who may reasonably be needed in order to defend or prosecute any legal or administrative action (other than a legal action between any EWS Group Member and any SNI Group Member) to which any employee, director or Benefit Plan of the EWS Group or SNI Group is a party and which relates to their respective Benefit Plans prior to the Distribution Date. The Party to whom an employee is made available in accordance with this Section 11.06 shall pay or reimburse the other Party for all reasonable expenses that may be incurred by such employee in connection therewith, including all reasonable travel, lodging, and meal expenses, but excluding any amount for such employee's time spent in connection herewith.
Access to Employees
     SECTION 11.07. . To the extent permitted by applicable Law and except as otherwise provided for in this Agreement, all beneficiary designations, authorizations for the release of information and rights to reimbursement made by or relating to SNI Participants under EWS Benefit Plans shall be transferred to and be in full force and effect under the corresponding SNI Benefit Plans until such beneficiary designations, authorizations or rights are replaced or revoked by, or no longer apply, to the relevant SNI Participant.
Beneficiary Designation/Release of Information/Right to Reimbursement
     SECTION 11.08. . The Parties hereto acknowledge and agree that the transactions contemplated by the Separation Agreement and this Agreement do not constitute a "change in control" for purposes of any EWS Benefit Plan or SNI Benefit Plan.
Not a Change in Control
     SECTION 12.01. . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if the Separation Agreement is terminated prior to the Distribution Date, then all actions and events that are, under this Agreement, to be taken or occur effective immediately prior to or as of the Distribution Date, or otherwise in connection with the Distribution, shall not be taken or occur
Effect if Distribution Does Not Occur
 
except to the extent specifically agreed to in writing by EWS and SNI and neither Party shall have any Liability to the other Party under this Agreement.
     SECTION 12.02. . Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed or construed by the Parties or any third party as creating the relationship of principal and agent, partnership or joint venture between the Parties, it being understood and agreed that no provision contained herein, and no act of the Parties, shall be deemed to create any relationship between the Parties other than the relationship set forth herein.
Relationship of Parties
     SECTION 12.03. . Each of EWS and SNI shall cause to be performed, and hereby guarantees the performance of, all actions, agreements and obligations set forth in this Agreement to be performed by each of their Subsidiaries or Affiliates, respectively.
Affiliates
     SECTION 12.04. . All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications hereunder must be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given only if delivered personally or by facsimile transmission or mailed (first class postage prepaid) to the Parties at the following addresses or facsimile numbers:
Notices
If to EWS, to:
The E.W. Scripps Company 312 Walnut Street, 28th Floor Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Facsimile: (513) 977-3720 Attention: Lisa A. Knutson, Senior Vice President, Human Resources
with a copy to:
The E.W. Scripps Company 312 Walnut Street, 28th Floor Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Facsimile: (513) 977-3042 Attention: William Appleton, Senior Vice President, General Counsel
If to SNI, to:
Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. 312 Walnut Street, 28th Floor Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Facsimile: (513) 977-3921 Attention: Jennifer L. Weber, Senior Vice President, Human Resources
with a copy to:
Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. 312 Walnut Street, 28th Floor Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Facsimile: (513) 977-5166 Attention: Anatolio B. Cruz III, Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary
     All such notices, requests and other communications will (i) if delivered personally to the address as provided in this section, be deemed given upon delivery, (ii) if delivered by facsimile transmission to
 
the facsimile number as provided in this section, be deemed given upon receipt and (iii) if delivered by mail in the manner described above to the address as provided in this section, be deemed given upon receipt (in each case regardless of whether such notice, request or other communication is received by any other Person to whom a copy of such notice, request or other communication is to be delivered pursuant to this section). Any party from time to time may change its address, facsimile number or other information for the purpose of notices to that party by giving notice specifying such change to the other party.
     SECTION 12.05. . This Agreement, together with all exhibits and schedules hereto, constitute the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and shall supersede all previous negotiations, commitments and writings with respect to such subject matter.
Entire Agreement
     SECTION 12.06. . Any term or condition of this Agreement may be waived at any time by the Party that is entitled to the benefit thereof, but no such waiver shall be effective unless set forth in a written instrument duly executed by or on behalf of the Party waiving such term or condition. No waiver by any Party of any term or condition of this Agreement, in any one or more instances, shall be deemed or construed as a waiver of the same or any other term or condition of this Agreement on any future occasion. All remedies, either under this Agreement or by Law or otherwise afforded, will be cumulative and not alternative.
Waiver
     SECTION 12.07. . This Agreement may be amended, modified, waived, supplemented or superseded, in whole or in part, only by a written instrument signed by duly authorized signatories of the Parties.
Amendment
     SECTION 12.08. . This Agreement and any dispute arising out of, in connection with or relating to this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Laws of the State of Ohio, without giving effect to the conflicts of laws principles thereof.
Governing Law
     SECTION 12.09. . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law, each Party hereto (a) agrees that any claim, action or proceeding by such Party seeking any relief whatsoever arising out of, relating to or in connection with, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby shall be brought only in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio or any Ohio State court, in each case, located in the County of Hamilton and not in any other State or Federal court in the United States of America or any court in any other country, (b) agrees to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts located in the County of Hamilton for purposes of all legal proceedings arising out of, or in connection with, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby, (c) waives and agrees not to assert any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such action brought in such a court or any claim that any such action brought in such a court has been brought in an inconvenient forum, (d) agrees that mailing of process or other papers in connection with any such action or proceeding in the manner provided in Section 12.04 or any other manner as may be permitted by Law shall be valid and sufficient service thereof and (e) agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by applicable Law.
Submission to Jurisdiction; Waivers
     SECTION 12.10. . The headings used in this Agreement have been inserted for convenience of reference only and do not define or limit the provisions hereof.
Headings
     SECTION 12.11. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original, but all of which together will constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
     SECTION 12.12. . Neither Party shall be permitted to assign, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, by operation of law or otherwise, any of its rights or obligations
No Assignment; Binding Effect
 
under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other Party and any unauthorized assignment shall be null and void. Notwithstanding such prohibition on assignment:
          (a) Nothing herein shall prohibit, modify or limit the ability of the Parties to transfer or allocate Assets and Liabilities, as the case may be, to any entity within the EWS Group or the SNI Group in connection with, or in furtherance of, the Distribution and, to the extent that any such transfer or allocation results in an assignment of this Agreement or any rights or obligations hereunder, then the Parties shall make such amendments, revisions or modifications to this Agreement as are reasonably necessary to reflect the affect of such assignment.
          (b) Either Party may assign all, but not less than all, of its rights or obligations under this Agreement in connection with a consolidation or merger transaction in which such Party is not the continuing or surviving entity or the sale by such Party of all or substantially all of its properties and assets, provided that: (i) prior to such transaction becoming effective, the continuing, surviving or acquiring entity shall have executed and delivered to the other Party a written agreement, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the other Party, pursuant to which such entity agrees to be bound by all of the terms, conditions and provisions of this Agreement as if named as a "Party" hereto and (ii) no Party shall be obligated to materially change the nature, scope or volume of its rights or obligations under this Agreement as a result of any such assignment.
     SECTION 12.13. . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable under any present or future Law, the remaining provisions of this Agreement will remain in full force and effect and will not be affected by the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision or by its severance herefrom.
Severability
     SECTION 13.01. . Except with respect to injunctive relief described below, any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or the breach thereof, shall attempt to be settled first, by good faith efforts of the Parties to reach mutual agreement, and second, if mutual agreement is not reached to resolve the dispute, by final, binding arbitration as set out below.
General
     SECTION 13.02. . A Party that wishes to initiate the dispute resolution process shall send written notice to the other Party, in accordance with Section 12.04, with a summary of the controversy and a request to initiate these dispute resolution procedures. Each Party shall appoint a knowledgeable, responsible representative who has the authority to settle the dispute, to meet and to negotiate in good faith to resolve the dispute. The discussions shall be left to the discretion of the representatives who may utilize other alternative dispute resolution procedures such as mediation to assist in the negotiations. Discussions and correspondence among the representatives for purposes of these negotiations (a) shall be treated as Information subject to the provisions of Section 7.08 of the Separation Agreement developed for purposes of settlement, (b) shall be exempt from discovery and production and (c) shall not be admissible in the arbitration described above or in any lawsuit pursuant to Rule 408 of the Federal Rules of Evidence. Documents identified in or provided with such communications that are not prepared for purposes of the negotiations are not so exempted and may, if otherwise admissible, be admitted in evidence in the arbitration or lawsuit. The Parties agree to pursue resolution under this subsection for a minimum of 30 calendar days before requesting arbitration.
Initiation
     SECTION 13.03. . If the dispute is not resolved under the preceding subsection within 30 calendar days of the initial written notice, either Party may demand arbitration by sending written notice to the other Party. The Parties shall promptly submit the dispute to the American Arbitration Association for resolution by a single neutral arbitrator acceptable to both Parties, as selected under the rules of the American Arbitration Association. The dispute shall then be administered
Arbitration Request
 
according to the American Arbitration Association's Commercial Arbitration Rules, with the following modifications: (i) the arbitration shall be held in a location mutually acceptable to the Parties, and, if the Parties do not agree, the location shall be Cincinnati, Ohio; (ii) the arbitrator shall be licensed to practice law; (iii) the arbitrator shall conduct the arbitration as if it were a bench trial and shall use, apply and enforce the Federal Rules of Evidence and Federal Rules of Civil Procedure; (iv) except for breaches related to Information subject to Section 11.01, the arbitrator shall have no power or authority to make any award that provides for consequential, punitive or exemplary damages or extend the term hereof; (v) the arbitrator shall control the scheduling so that the hearing is completed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the demand for arbitration; and (vi) the arbitrator's decision shall be given within five calendar days thereafter in summary form that states the award, without written decision, which decision shall follow the plain meaning of this Agreement, and in the event of any ambiguity, the intent of the Parties. Judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having jurisdiction over the Parties. Each Party to the dispute shall bear its own expenses arising out of the arbitration, except that the Parties shall share the expenses of the facilities to conduct the arbitration and the fees of the arbitrator equally.
     SECTION 13.04. . The foregoing notwithstanding, each Party shall have the right to seek injunctive relief in an applicable court of law or equity to preserve the status quo pending resolution of the dispute and enforce any decision relating to the resolution of the dispute.
Injunctive Relief
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.

Exhibit 10.13 Execution Version
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
     THIS TAX ALLOCATION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is dated as of the 1st day of July, 2008, by and between The E. W. Scripps Company, an Ohio corporation (""), and Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. (""), an Ohio corporation and an indirect subsidiary of EWS (together with EWS, each a "" and collectively, the ""). Capitalized terms used in this Agreement are defined as set forth in Section 1.01.
EWS
SNI
Party
Parties
     WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of EWS has determined that it is in the best interests of EWS to separate the SNI Business and the EWS Business into two independent public companies, (the ""),on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Separation Agreement, in order to separate businesses with differing strategic directions, eliminate existing constraints regarding capital allocation, concentrate management focus, allow more tailored management incentives, and accommodate differing shareholder bases;
Separation
     WHEREAS, in order to effectuate the foregoing, EWS and SNI have entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement, dated as of June 12, 2008 (the ""), pursuant to which and subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, the SNI Business shall be separated from the EWS Business and pursuant to the Distribution, the SNI Class A Common Shares and SNI Common Voting Shares shall be distributed on a pro rata basis to the holders of EWS Class A Common Shares and EWS Common Voting Shares;
Separation Agreement
     WHEREAS, for U.S. federal income Tax purposes, through the Distribution Date, income of certain present and former members of the SNI Group has been or will be included in EWS Consolidated Returns;
     WHEREAS, certain SNI Combined Group members have filed or will file Combined Returns covering U.S. state and local income Taxes with EWS Combined Groups as part of their respective Total Combined Groups;
     WHEREAS, SNI and other members of the SNI Group will cease to be members of the EWS Group for U.S. federal income Tax purposes after the Distribution Date, and SNI and other members of SNI Combined Groups will cease to be members of their respective Total Combined Groups for U.S. state and local income Tax purposes after the Distribution Date;
     WHEREAS, the failure of the Distribution to have a Tax-Free Status or certain actions taken with respect to SNI Capital Stock and EWS Capital Stock could subject EWS, SNI and their shareholders to additional Tax costs in connection with the Distribution; and
     WHEREAS, EWS and SNI desire in this Agreement to (i) set forth Tax allocation principles for Affiliation Years for U.S. federal income Tax purposes and Combined Years for U.S. state and local income Tax purposes, which, except to the extent provided herein, will supersede all prior policies and procedures governing the allocation of Taxes, (ii) define the effects upon the settlement and allocation of certain Tax liabilities and Tax benefits of transactions or developments that occur during taxable years commencing after the Distribution Date, (iii) set forth the responsibility for their respective stand-alone income and other Tax liabilities, and (iv) allocate liability for certain Tax costs that may be incurred in connection with the Distribution.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, the promises and covenants set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, EWS and SNI hereby agree as follows:
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
     SECTION 1.01. . For all purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.01.
2007 Excess EWS Group Benefits
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.01.
2007 Excess SNI Group Benefits
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.01
2007 Tax Liability
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.01.
2007 Taxable Year
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.02.
2008 Excess EWS Group Benefits
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.02.
2008 Excess SNI Group Benefits
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.02.
2008 Tax Liability
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.02.
2008 Taxable Year
     "" shall mean with respect to any Affiliation Year(s) the U.S. federal income Tax liability of the EWS Group applying the Highest Federal Tax Rate, computed as if the EWS Group (with EWS as the common parent) filed an EWS Consolidated Return separately from the SNI Group, and applying such U.S. Tax laws and regulations as would have been applicable to the EWS Group if it had so filed separately, but not taking into account any items that are predicated on base amounts determined on a consolidated basis such as research Credits, subject to the following:
Adjusted Separate EWS Group Federal Tax Liability
          (i) the EWS Group shall be treated as bound by all accounting methods, elections and other determinations adopted or made by EWS for the EWS Group for all Affiliation Years, including, but not limited to, determinations made in respect of carrybacks and carryovers;
          (ii) the EWS Group shall be permitted to reduce its Adjusted Separate EWS Group Federal Tax Liability (but not below zero) to the extent that the EWS Group is able to reduce its U.S. federal income Tax liability in the EWS Consolidated Return for such Affiliation Year by utilizing items of deduction, loss, or Credit of the EWS Group which the Parties determine the EWS Group would have been unable to utilize if it had filed an EWS Consolidated Return separately from the SNI Group (""); , that if there are any limitations in the ability of the EWS Group to utilize items in the same category as such Excess Items in their entirety for such year, the EWS Group shall be limited in the reduction of its Adjusted Separate EWS Group Federal Tax Liability to its share of such Excess Items on a Proportionate Basis; , , that if, pursuant to the above provisions, an Excess Item is not usable, in whole or in part, by the SNI Group in one Affiliation Year, it may, pursuant to Section 7.03 hereof, be carried over or carried back as an Excess Item to any other Affiliation Year subject to the same limitations as above; and
Excess Items
provided
provided
further
          (iii) the EWS Group shall take into account the items of EWS Group income, gain, loss, deduction or Credit attributable to intercompany items, excess loss accounts, dual consolidated losses and other items that are required to be restored, recaptured or otherwise triggered as a result of the Distribution or related transactions.
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
     "" shall mean with respect to any Affiliation Year(s) the U.S. federal income Tax liability of the SNI Group applying the Highest Federal Tax Rate, computed as if the SNI Group (with SNI as the common parent) filed a consolidated U.S. federal income Tax Return separately from the EWS Group (""), and applying such U.S. Tax laws and regulations as would have been applicable to the SNI Group if it had so filed separately, but not taking into account any items that are predicated on base amounts determined on a consolidated basis such as research Credits, subject to the following:
Adjusted Separate SNI Group Federal Tax Liability
SNI Consolidated Return
          (i) the SNI Group shall be treated as bound by all accounting methods, elections and other determinations adopted or made by EWS for the EWS Group for all Affiliation Years, including, but not limited to, determinations made in respect of carrybacks and carryovers;
          (ii) the SNI Group shall be permitted to reduce its Adjusted Separate SNI Group Federal Tax Liability (but not below zero) to the extent that the EWS Group is able to reduce its U.S. federal income Tax liability in the EWS Consolidated Return for such Affiliation Year by utilizing items of deduction, loss, or Credit of the SNI Group which the Parties determine the SNI Group would have been unable to utilize if it had filed an SNI Consolidated Return ("") , that if there are any limitations in the ability of the EWS Group to utilize items in the same category as such Excess Items in their entirety for such year, the SNI Group shall be limited in the reduction of its Adjusted Separate SNI Group Federal Tax Liability to its share of such Excess Items on a Proportionate Basis; , , that if, pursuant to the above provisions, an Excess Item is not usable, in whole or in part, by the EWS Group in one Affiliation Year, it may, pursuant to Section 7.03 hereof, be carried over or carried back as an Excess Item to any other Affiliation Year subject to the same limitations as above; and
Excess Items
;
provided
provided
further
          (iii) the SNI Group shall take into account the items of SNI Group income, gain, loss, deduction or Credit attributable to intercompany items, excess loss accounts, dual consolidated losses and other items that are required to be restored, recaptured or otherwise triggered as a result of the Distribution or related transactions.
     "" shall mean, with respect to any Affiliation Year, any change in actual Tax liability from the Tax liability reported on an EWS Consolidated Return, including changes attributable to amended Tax Returns, deficiencies asserted by a Taxing authority, overpayments, and claims for refund, and changes required by application of the Code and Treasury Regulations and Taxing authority audits, examinations, proceedings or litigation resulting from any of the foregoing events (collectively, ""). Adjustment shall mean with respect of any Combined Year in which an SNI Combined Group files a Combined Return with a EWS Combined Group as part of a Total Combined Group, any change in the actual Tax liability of the applicable Total Combined Group, including changes attributable to Adjustment Events.
Adjustment
Adjustment Events
     "" shall have the definition of "Adjustment."
Adjustment Events
     "" shall mean any entity that is directly or indirectly controlled by the person in question; , , that for purposes of this Agreement, as of the Effective Time no member of either Group shall be deemed to be an Affiliate of any member of the other Group. For this purpose, "control" shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and the policies of a person, whether through ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
provided
however
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
     "" shall mean each taxable year, or portion thereof, with respect to which any member of the SNI Group joined or will join the EWS Group in the filing of an EWS Consolidated Return.
Affiliation Year
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.03.
AMT
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 8.03.
Article VIII Taxes
     "" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Any references herein to sections of the Code or Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder shall include any successor provisions thereto.
Code
     "" shall mean a combined, consolidated, or unitary U.S. state or local income, franchise, business activities or gross receipts Tax Return.
Combined Return
     "" shall mean a U.S. state or locality requiring or permitting the filing of a Combined Return.
Combined State
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 3.02.
Combined State Total Tax Liability
     "" shall mean a taxable year (or portion thereof) in which an EWS Combined Group files a Combined Return with an SNI Combined Group.
Combined Year
     "" shall mean Cable Program Management Co., G.P.
CPMCO
     "" shall mean all of the credits against U.S. federal income Tax or, as applicable, against U.S. state or local Tax. Credits shall include, but not be limited to, foreign Tax credits, research credits, low-income housing credits, investment Tax credits and targeted job credits.
Credits
     "" shall mean the distribution on basis to holders of issued and outstanding EWS Class A Common Shares and EWS Common Voting Shares, of all of the issued and outstanding SNI Class A Common Shares and SNI Voting Common Shares ("SNI Common Shares"), beneficially owned by EWS, by means of a dividend of such SNI Class A Common Shares and SNI Voting Common Shares to such shareholders.
Distribution
a pro rata
     "" shall mean the date on which the Distribution shall be effected, such date to be determined by, or under the authority of, the Board of Directors of EWS in its sole and absolute discretion.
Distribution Date
     "" means (i) any Taxes imposed on, or increase in Taxes incurred by, EWS or any EWS Affiliate, and any Taxes of an EWS shareholder (or former EWS shareholder) that are required to be paid or reimbursed by EWS or any EWS Affiliate pursuant to a Final Determination; (ii) all professional fees and court costs incurred in connection with such Taxes; and (iii) all costs, expenses and damages associated with stockholder litigation or controversies, including but not limited to, any amount paid by EWS, any EWS Affiliate, SNI, or any SNI Affiliate, as the case may be, in respect of the liability of shareholders, whether paid to shareholders, the IRS, any other Taxing authority, or any other person or entity, in each case, arising from the Distribution and related transactions failing to have Tax-Free Status in any manner, provided that EWS shall have vigorously defended itself in any legal proceeding involving Taxes of an EWS shareholder, without regard to whether such Taxes are offset or reduced by any Tax Asset, Tax Item, or otherwise resulting from, or arising in connection with, the failure of the Internal Distribution or the Distribution to qualify as transactions in which no income, gain or loss is recognized
Distribution Taxes
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
pursuant to sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code (including any Tax resulting from the application of section 355(d) or section 355(e) of the Code to the Internal Distribution or the Distribution) or corresponding provisions of the laws of any other jurisdictions. Any income Tax referred to in the immediately preceding sentence shall be determined using the highest applicable statutory corporate income Tax rate (or rates, in the case of an item that affects more than one Tax) for the relevant taxable period (or portion thereof) taking into account deductions for interest paid or accrued and other related Taxes, such as state and local Taxes.
     "" shall mean the time at which the Distribution occurs on the Distribution Date.
Effective Time
     "" shall mean the Employee Matters Agreement of even date herewith by and between EWS and SNI.
Employee Matters Agreement
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 3.06.
Estimated State Taxes
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the definition of "Excess EWS Group Benefits."
EWS Additional Excess Items
     "" shall mean an Affiliate of EWS other than SNI and SNI Affiliates.
EWS Affiliate
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.03.
EWS AMT Liability
     "" means all businesses and operations of the EWS Group, other than the SNI Business.
EWS Business
     "" shall mean all classes or series of stock of EWS and all options, warrants, derivatives, rights to acquire stock, and other interests and instruments taken into account for purposes of determining a Fifty-Percent or Greater Interest in EWS.
EWS Capital Stock
     "" means the Class A Common Shares, par value $0.01 per share, of EWS.
EWS Class A Common Shares
     "" shall mean an affiliated group of corporations (as constituted from time to time) owned directly or indirectly by EWS that EWS determines will join in filing a Combined Return excluding members of an SNI Combined Group.
EWS Combined Group
     "" means the Common Voting Shares, par value $0.01 per share, of EWS.
EWS Common Voting Shares
     "" shall mean a consolidated U.S. federal income Tax Return filed by EWS on behalf of the EWS Group.
EWS Consolidated Return
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Employee Matters Agreement.
EWS Director
     "" shall mean the affiliated group of corporations (as constituted from time to time), of which EWS is the common parent, which EWS determines will join in filing a EWS Consolidated Return.
EWS Group
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in .
EWS Group State Tax Liability
Section 3.02
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 8.02.
EWS Issues
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Employee Matters Agreement.
EWS Participant
     "shall mean the amount by which the Parties agree that EWS was able to reduce its U.S. federal income Tax liability in the EWS Consolidated Return for an Affiliation Year by use of Excess Items which would reduce the Adjusted Separate SNI Group Federal Tax Liability for such year, if zero, below zero (""). Use of EWS Additional Excess Items shall otherwise be subject to the same limitations and other provisions applicable to the use of Excess Items, as determined by the Parties in good faith.
Excess EWS Group Benefits
"
EWS Additional Excess Items
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the definition of "Adjusted Separate SNI Group Federal Tax Liability."
Excess Items
     "" shall mean the amount by which the Parties agree that SNI was able to reduce its U.S. federal income Tax liability in the EWS Consolidated Return for an Affiliation Year by use of Excess Items which would reduce the Adjusted Separate EWS Group Federal Tax Liability for such year, if zero, below zero (""). Use of SNI Additional Excess Items shall otherwise be subject to the same limitations and other provisions applicable to the use of Excess Items, as determined by the Parties in good faith.
Excess SNI Group Benefits
SNI Additional Excess Items
     "" shall mean a "50-percent or greater interest" for purposes of Sections 355(d) and (e) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
Fifty-Percent or Greater Interest
     "" shall mean the final resolution of liability for any Tax for any taxable period, by or as a result of (i) a final and unappealable decision, judgment, decree or other order by any court of competent jurisdiction; (ii) a final settlement with the IRS, a closing agreement or accepted offer in compromise under section 7121 or section 7122 of the Code, or a comparable agreement under the laws of other jurisdictions, which resolves the entire Tax liability for any taxable period; (iii) any allowance of a refund or credit in respect of an overpayment of Tax, but only after the expiration of all periods during which such refund may be recovered by the jurisdiction imposing the Tax; or (iv) any other final disposition, including by reason of the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations.
Final Determination
     "" shall mean any item of income, gain, loss or deduction or any asset or liability relevant to the computation of taxable income from sources without the United States and any item of Credit described in Section 901 or 902 of the Code (without regard to the limitation of Section 904 of the Code).
Foreign Attribute
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.03(a).
Fraction
     "" for the taxable year in question shall mean the sum of (i) the Highest Federal Tax Rate, and (ii) in the case of a corporation, the average, weighted by jurisdiction, of the highest U.S. state and local income, franchise, and gross receipts Tax rates that would be applicable to such a corporation (net of any U.S. federal income Tax benefit), or in the case of a Person other than a corporation, the highest U.S. state and local income Tax rates (net of any U.S. federal income Tax benefit) that would be applicable to such Person or the beneficial owner(s) of such Person.
Highest Combined Tax Rate
     "" for the taxable year in question shall mean (i) in the case of a corporation, the highest U.S. federal income Tax rate applicable to a corporation, or (ii) in the case of a Person other than a corporation, the highest U.S. federal income Tax rate that would be applicable to such Person or the beneficial owner(s) of such Person.
Highest Federal Tax Rate
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
     "" shall mean the amount of the Tax savings realized by the applicable group, as determined by the Parties. Such amount shall be determined by comparing (i) the actual U.S. federal income Tax liability and the corresponding U.S. state and local income Tax liability (net of any federal Tax benefit) of the applicable group for the taxable year in question without giving effect to the items in question with (ii) the actual U.S. federal income Tax liability and the corresponding U.S. state and local Tax liability (net of any federal Tax benefit) of the applicable group for such year after giving full effect to such items. An Income Tax Benefit shall be deemed to be realized at the time that the applicable group receives a refund or credit for refund from the relevant Taxing authority.
Income Tax Benefit
     "" shall mean the amount of additional Tax incurred by the applicable group, as determined by the Parties. Such amount shall be determined by comparing (i) the actual U.S. federal income Tax and the corresponding U.S. state and local Tax liability (net of any U.S. federal income Tax benefit) of the applicable group for the taxable year in question after giving full effect to the items in question with (ii) the actual U.S. federal income Tax and the corresponding U.S. state and local Tax liability (net of any U.S. federal income Tax benefit) of the applicable group without giving effect to such items. Unless otherwise provided herein, an Income Tax Detriment shall be deemed to be incurred at such time as payment is made to the relevant Taxing authority upon a Final Determination of items in questions. In computing the Tax liability of the EWS Group for purposes of clause (i) of the second sentence of this definition or clause (ii) of the second sentence of the definition of "Income Tax Benefit" above, increases or decreases in the U.S. federal, state or local income Tax liability of the EWS Group attributable to the effect on EWS' (or any EWS subsidiary's) basis in the stock of any member of the SNI Group will not be taken into account.
Income Tax Detriment
     "" shall mean the distribution by Scripps Howard Broadcasting Company of all of the common stock of SNI to EWS.
Internal Distribution
     "" shall mean the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Employee Matters Agreement.
Joint EWS/SNI Director
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.03.
Minimum Tax Credit
     "" shall mean the business of EWS so designated, as described in the Ruling Request.
Newspaper Business and EWS Businesses
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 3.03.
NOLs
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Employee Matters Agreement.
Options
     "" shall mean an individual or a partnership, corporation, limited liability company, association, joint stock company, trust, joint venture, unincorporated organization, or other entity, without regard to whether such entity is treated as disregarded for U.S. federal income Tax purposes.
Person
     "" shall mean a taxable period after the Distribution Date during which SNI and its subsidiaries do not join the EWS Group in the filing of a EWS Consolidated Return.
Post-Affiliation Year
     "" shall mean a taxable period after the Distribution Date during which SNI and its subsidiaries do not join a Total Combined Group in the filing of a Combined Return with an EWS Combined Group.
Post-Combined Year
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
     "" shall mean, with respect to an item or items attributable to a particular member or members of the SNI Group, the determination of the portion of such items based on the total value of such items over the total value of all items in the same category for the entire EWS Group for the same Affiliation Year of the EWS Group, subject to any appropriate Adjustments thereto, as determined by the Parties.
Proportionate Basis
     "" shall mean a transaction or series of transactions (or any agreement, understanding or arrangement, within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, to enter into a transaction or series of transactions), as a result of which EWS would merge or consolidate with any other Person or as a result of which any Person or any group of Persons would (directly or indirectly) acquire, or have the right to acquire through the acquisition of an option or otherwise, from EWS and/or one or more holders of EWS Capital Stock, an amount of EWS Capital Stock that would, when combined with any other changes in ownership of EWS Capital Stock pertinent for purposes of Section 355(e) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, comprise 40% or more of (A) the value of all outstanding EWS Capital Stock as of the date of such transaction, or in the case of a series of transactions, the date of the last transaction of such series, or (B) the total combined voting power of all outstanding EWS Capital Stock as of the date of such transaction, or in the case of a series of transactions, the date of the last transaction of such series. For purposes of determining whether a transaction constitutes an indirect acquisition for purposes of the first sentence of this definition, any recapitalization resulting in a shift of voting power or any redemption of shares of stock shall be treated as an indirect acquisition of shares of stock by the non-exchanging shareholders. This definition and the application thereof are intended to monitor compliance with Section 355(e) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
Proposed EWS Group Acquisition Transaction
     "" shall mean a transaction or series of transactions (or any agreement, understanding or arrangement, within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, to enter into a transaction or series of transactions), as a result of which SNI would merge or consolidate with any other Person or as a result of which any Person or any group of Persons would (directly or indirectly) acquire, or have the right to acquire through the acquisition of an option or otherwise, from SNI and/or one or more holders of SNI Capital Stock, an amount of SNI Capital Stock that would, when combined with any other changes in ownership of SNI Capital Stock pertinent for purposes of Section 355(e) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, comprise 40% or more of (A) the value of all outstanding SNI Capital Stock as of the date of such transaction, or in the case of a series of transactions, the date of the last transaction of such series, or (B) the total combined voting power of all outstanding SNI Capital Stock as of the date of such transaction, or in the case of a series of transactions, the date of the last transaction of such series. For purposes of determining whether a transaction constitutes an indirect acquisition for purposes of the first sentence of this definition, any recapitalization resulting in a shift of voting power or any redemption of shares of stock shall be treated as an indirect acquisition of shares of stock by the non-exchanging shareholders. This definition and the application thereof are intended to monitor compliance with Section 355(e) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
Proposed SNI Acquisition Transaction
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 8.03.
RAR
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 5.01.
Representation Letters
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Employee Matters Agreement.
Restricted Shares
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Employee Matters Agreement.
Restricted Share Units
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
     "" shall mean (a) the private letter ruling (and any supplemental private letter ruling) issued by the IRS to EWS in connection with the separation and distribution and (b) any similar ruling (including any supplemental ruling) issued by any Taxing authority other than the IRS in connection with the Separation and Distribution.
Ruling
     "" means the Ruling and the Ruling Request.
Ruling Documents
     "" means any letter filed by EWS with the IRS or any other Taxing authority requesting a ruling regarding certain tax consequences of the Separation and Distribution (including all attachments, exhibits, and other materials submitted with such ruling request letter) and any amendment or supplement to such ruling request letter, including but not limited to the request for rulings to the IRS in respect of the Distribution and related matters, dated November 28, 2007.
Ruling Request
     "" shall mean claims for refund attributable to items described in and filed pursuant to Section 6.02 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02 Claims
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the recitals to this Agreement.
Separation
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the definition of "Excess SNI Group Benefits."
SNI Additional Excess Items
     "" shall mean an Affiliate of SNI.
SNI Affiliate
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.03.
SNI AMT Liability
     "" means the business and operations conducted by the SNI Group from time to time, whether prior to, at or after the Effective Time, including the business and operations conducted by the SNI Group as more fully described in the Ruling Request and in the SNI Information Statement.
SNI Business
     "" shall mean all classes or series of stock of SNI and all options, warrants, derivatives, rights to acquire stock, and other interests and instruments taken into account for purposes of determining a Fifty-Percent or Greater Interest in SNI.
SNI Capital Stock
     "" shall mean the Class A Common Shares, par value $0.01 per share, of SNI.
SNI Class A Common Shares
     "" shall mean an affiliated group of corporations (as constituted from time to time), consisting of SNI or its directly or indirectly owned subsidiaries, that EWS determines will join in filing a Combined Return with an EWS Combined Group.
SNI Combined Group
     "" shall mean the Common Voting Shares, par value $0.01 per share, of SNI.
SNI Common Voting Shares
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the definition of "Adjusted Separate SNI Group Federal Tax Liability.
SNI Consolidated Return
"
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Employee Matters Agreement.
SNI Director
     "" shall mean the affiliated group of corporations (as constituted from time to time), consisting of SNI or its directly or indirectly owned subsidiaries, that EWS determines will join in filing a EWS Consolidated Return.
SNI Group
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 3.02.
SNI Group State Tax Liability
     "" means the definitive information statement distributed to holders of EWS Common Shares in connection with the Distribution and filed with the SEC as Exhibit 99.1 to the Registration Statement or as an exhibit to a Form 8-K of SNI.
SNI Information Statement
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 8.02.
SNI Issues
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Employee Matters Agreement.
SNI Participant
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in 2.03.
SNI Separate AMT
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 8.03.
SNI Unsettled Issues
     "" or "" shall mean any tax, assessment, duty, fee or other charge imposed or collected by any government or political subdivision thereof or any Taxing authority thereunder, including but not limited to, any income, gross income, gross receipts, profits, capital stock, franchise, withholding, payroll, social security, premium, guarantee fund, workers compensation, unemployment, disability, property, stamp, excise, severance, occupation, service, sales, use, license, lease, transfer, import, export, value added, minimum, alternative minimum, estimated or other tax (including any assessment, duty, fee or other charge in the nature of or in lieu of any such tax), and any interest, penalties, additions to tax, or additional amounts in respect of the foregoing.
Tax
Taxes
ad valorem,
     "" shall mean a United States law or accounting firm of national standing in the field of taxation selected by the Parties.
Tax Advisor
     "" shall mean an audit, review, examination, contest or any other administrative or judicial proceeding with the purpose or effect of redetermining Taxes of any Party (including any administrative or judicial review of any claim for refund) for any Tax period.
Tax Contest
     "" shall mean the qualification of the Distribution and related transactions as a distribution in which no gain or loss is recognized, and no amount is includible in income, for U.S. federal income Tax purposes (other than intercompany items, excess loss accounts or other items required to be taken into account pursuant to the Treasury Regulations promulgated under Section 1502 of the Code).
Tax-Free Status
     "" shall mean (i) all U.S. federal, state and local Taxes payable pursuant to any Final Determination or otherwise; (ii) all professional fees, and court costs incurred in connection with such Taxes; and (iii) all costs, expenses and damages associated with stockholder litigation or controversies, including but not limited to, any amount paid by EWS, any EWS Affiliate, SNI, or any SNI Affiliate, as the case may be, in respect of the liability of shareholders, whether paid to shareholders, the IRS, any other Taxing authority, or any other person or entity, in each case, arising from the Distribution and related transactions failing to have Tax-Free Status in any manner.
Tax-Related Losses
     "" shall mean any Tax return (including any amended return), report, information return, election, notice or other document filed or to be filed with a Taxing authority, including any schedules or related or supporting information.
Tax Return
     "" shall mean the business of SNI so designated, as described in the Ruling Request.
Television Network and Interactive Businesses
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
     "" shall mean, with respect to any U.S. jurisdiction that requires or permits the filing of a Combined Return, the affiliated group of corporations (as constituted from time to time), that EWS determines will join in the filing of such Combined Return that includes a EWS Combined Group and an SNI Combined Group.
Total Combined Group
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.03.
TPIs
     " shall mean U.S. Treasury regulations issued under the Code.
Treasury Regulations
     "" shall mean an unqualified "will" opinion of a law firm of nationally recognized standing in the field of taxation. Any such opinion shall assume that the Distribution and related transactions would have qualified for Tax-Free Status had the transaction in question not occurred.
Unqualified Tax Opinion
     SECTION 1.02. . (a) Words in the singular shall include the plural and vice versa, and words of one gender shall include the other gender, in each case, as the context requires, (b) the term "hereof," "herein," "hereunder," and "herewith" and words of similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this Agreement and not to any particular provision of this Agreement, and any references to Article, Section, paragraph, exhibit and schedule are references to the Articles, Sections, paragraphs, exhibits and schedules to this Agreement unless otherwise specified, (c) the word "including" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall mean "including, without limitation," unless otherwise specified and (d) any reference to any federal, state, local or non-U.S. statute or law shall be deemed to also refer to all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, unless the context otherwise requires.
General Interpretive Principles
     SECTION 1.03. . Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, this Agreement shall supersede in all respects any and all policies and procedures governing the allocation of Tax liability among the members of the EWS Group or the Total Combined Groups. Except as otherwise specifically provided hereunder, all determinations and actions required under this Agreement will be taken by EWS and shall be made in good faith taking into account, among other factors, the goal of reducing the aggregate Taxes of the Parties. It is the intention of the Parties that this Agreement shall be administered in a manner so that the allocation of income, deduction, loss or Credit between the Parties will produce Tax consequences for the Parties, on a current, carryback and carryover basis, that are consistent with those that are required by the Code and Treasury Regulations.
Applicable Standards
     SECTION 2.01. .
Affiliation Years
     (a) SNI irrevocably designates and agrees to cause each of its Affiliates to so designate EWS as its agent to take any and all actions necessary or incidental to the preparation and filing of EWS Consolidated ReturnsEWS shall be responsible for, and shall indemnify and hold SNI and the SNI Affiliates harmless against all U.S. federal income tax liabilities in respect of members of the EWS Group (other than members of the SNI Group) under Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-6SNI shall be responsible for, and shall indemnify and hold EWS and the EWS Affiliates harmless against, the U.S. federal income Tax liability of the SNI Group for all taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2008, including, without limitation, the 2007 Tax Liability and the 2008 Tax LiabilitySNI shall be liable for and pay EWS the Adjusted Separate SNI Group Federal Tax Liability for each such Affiliation YearEWS shall pay SNI, but SNI shall remain liable for, Excess EWS Group Benefits, if any, for any such year if the Adjusted Separate SNI Group Federal Tax Liability for such year is zero. SNI shall pay EWS but EWS shall remain liable for, Excess SNI Group Benefits, if any, for the
SNI and EWS Tax Liabilities.
.
.
.
.
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
Taxable year of the EWS Group ending on December 31, 2007, if the Adjusted Separate EWS Group Federal Tax Liability for such Taxable year is zero.
     (b) At least three (3) business days before EWS files the EWS Consolidated Return for the 2007 Taxable Year, the Parties shall determine the amount of the 2007 Tax Liability or any Excess EWS Group Benefits for such year ("") or any Excess SNI Group Benefits for such year ("")SNI shall pay to EWS or EWS shall pay to SNI an amount equal to the difference between (i) the 2007 Tax Liability and (ii) (A) the sum of any payments previously made by SNI to EWS with respect to the 2007 Tax Liability, reduced (to and below zero) by (B) the sum of any payments previously made or to be made by EWS to SNI in respect of any 2007 Excess EWS Group Benefits and increased by the payments made or to be made by SNI to EWS with respect to the 2007 Excess SNI Group Benefits. The "" is the Adjusted Separate SNI Group Federal Tax Liability for the taxable year ending on December 31, 2007 (""). Payment by SNI is due within one (1) business days after notice by EWS. Payment by EWS is due within thirty (30) business days of filing the EWS Consolidated Return for the 2007 Taxable Year.
2007 Tax Liability.
2007 Excess EWS Group Benefits
2007 Excess SNI Group Benefits
.
2007 Tax Liability
2007 Taxable Year
     SECTION 2.02. .
2008 Taxable Year
     (a) . SNI shall be responsible and pay EWS for, and shall indemnify and hold EWS and the EWS Affiliates harmless against, the "2008 Tax Liability," which shall include, but not be limited to, all liabilities arising from the triggering of intercompany and other items as described in clause (iii) of the definition above of "Adjusted Separate SNI Group Federal Tax Liability" and all Taxes attributable to the income of CPMCO for the 2008 Taxable Year. EWS agrees to indemnify and hold SNI and SNI Affiliates harmless against U.S. federal income tax liabilities in respect of members of the EWS Group (other than members of the SNI Group) under Treasury Regulation Section 1.1502-6 other than Tax liability attributable to the income of CPMCO for the 2008 Taxable Year. The "" is the Adjusted Separate SNI Group Federal Tax Liability for the taxable year beginning on January 1, 2008 and ending on and including the Distribution Date (the "") and all taxes attributable to the income of CPMCO for the 2008 Taxable Year. EWS shall pay SNI but SNI shall remain liable for the Excess EWS Group Benefits, if any, for the taxable year of the EWS Group ending on December 31, 2008 if the Adjusted Separate SNI Group Federal Tax Liability is zero under the preceding sentence (""). SNI shall pay EWS but EWS shall remain liable for, Excess SNI Group Benefits, if any, for the Taxable year of the EWS Group ending on December 31, 2008, if the Adjusted Separate EWS Group Federal Tax Liability for such Taxable year is zero ("2008 Excess SNI Group Benefits").
2008 Tax Liability
2008 Tax Liability
2008 Taxable Year
2008 Excess EWS Group Benefits
     (b) . From and after the date of this Agreement, SNI shall pay to EWS no later than the day before each due date for the payment of quarterly estimated U.S. federal income Taxes for the taxable year of the EWS Group ending on December 31, 2008 and the payment due March 15, 2009 the difference, if any, between (A) 2008 Tax Liability due based on the method for making estimated payments elected by EWS pursuant to Section of the Code, and (B) the sum of any payments previously made by SNI to EWS with respect to the 2008 Tax Liability.
Estimated Payments, Etc
6655
     (c) . At least three (3) business days before the day that EWS files the EWS Consolidated Return for the 2008 Taxable Year, EWS shall determine the amount of the 2008 Tax Liability, any 2008 Excess EWS Group Benefits, and any 2008 Excess SNI Group Benefits. SNI shall pay to EWS or EWS shall pay to SNI, as the case may be, the difference between (i) the 2008 Tax Liability and (ii) (A) the sum of the payments previously made by SNI to EWS with respect to the 2008 Tax Liability reduced (to and below zero) by (B) the sum of any payments previously made or to be made by EWS to SNI in respect of any 2008 Excess EWS Group Benefits and increased by any payments
Payment Upon Filing Return
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
made or to be made by SNI to EWS in respect of any 2008 Excess SNI Group Benefits and all Taxes attributable to the income of all CPMCO for the 2008 Taxable Year. Payment by SNI is due within at least one (1) business day before the date on which such Tax is required to be paid. Payment by EWS is due within thirty (30) business days of filing the EWS Consolidated Return for the 2008 Taxable Year.
     (d) . On or before the Distribution Date, SNI and EWS shall cooperate to settle all intercompany accounts with respect to Taxes for all Affiliation Years and all Combined Years based on the most accurate and complete information then available. SNI and EWS shall finally settle such accounts as otherwise provided in this Article II.
Settling Tax Payable Accounts
     (e) . The Parties shall determine the amounts of income, gain, loss, deduction, and Credit of the SNI Group for the 2008 Taxable Year that are properly includable in the EWS Consolidated Return for the taxable year of the EWS Group ending on December 31, 2008. For all relevant purposes of this Agreement, the members of the SNI Group and each SNI Combined Group shall cease to be members of the EWS Group and their respective Total Combined Groups, as of the end of the Distribution Date, and SNI shall cause the books of account of the members of the SNI Group and the SNI Combined Groups to be closed for accounting and Tax purposes as of the end of the Distribution Date in accordance with EWS's direction. In determining consolidated taxable income for the taxable period that ends on the Distribution Date, the income and other items of the SNI Group shall be determined in accordance with Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-76(b)(1), - -76(b)(2)(i) and  76(b)(2)(iv) and no election shall be made under Treasury Regulation Section 1.1502-76(b)(2)(ii)(D) to ratably allocate items. However, an allocation shall be made under Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-76(b)(2)(iii) if such allocation is determined by the Parties to be necessary to appropriately allocate income in the event that the Distribution Date occurs on any date other than the last or first day of any month. Pursuant to Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-76(b)(2)(vi), any item of a pass-through entity that is owned by a member of the SNI Group shall be allocated as if such member sold its entire interest in the entity immediately before the Distribution. In the event that a member or members of the SNI Group would be treated as owning an interest of less than 50% in the aggregate in such pass-through entity, then pursuant to Treasury Regulations Section 1.706-1(c)(ii), each such member's share of any distributive items shall be the amount determined by taking into account the pro rata part of such items that such member would have included in taxable income had such member remained a partner or owner of the pass-through entity until the end of the partnership tax year based on the portion of the partnership taxable year that has elapsed through the Distribution Date or upon such other reasonable method that the Parties may agree. SNI and SNI Affiliates shall file their respective Tax Returns for the taxable period beginning on the first day after the Distribution Date consistently with such determinations.
Assignment of Taxable Items
     (f) . Without limiting the foregoing, the Parties shall also determine the portion of any Foreign Attribute for the SNI Group that is allocable to the taxable year ending December 31, 2008, provided, that such portion to be allocated will not include any amount described in Section 951(a) of the Code (relating to inclusions in income of controlled foreign corporation earnings) or any amount described in Section 1293(a) of the Code (relating to inclusions in income of qualified electing fund earnings), or any indirect foreign Tax Credit under Sections 960 and 1293(f) of the Code for foreign income Taxes deemed paid with respect to either of these items; and , , that, without the prior written consent of EWS, such consent not being unreasonably withheld, SNI and its subsidiaries shall not elect to recapture an amount of taxable income from sources without the U.S. of any member of the SNI Group greater than the minimum amount required by Section 904(f)(1) of the Code for any Affiliation Year. SNI shall provide EWS with all information it reasonably requests to make any determination under this subsection (f). EWS will likewise share all information with SNI necessary for SNI to determine its share of the consolidated foreign Tax Credits for the taxable year ending December 31, 2008 and all prior taxable years.
Determining Foreign Attributes
provided
further
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
     SECTION 2.03. .
U.S. Federal Alternative Minimum Tax
     (a) . Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, if, for any Affiliation Year, the EWS Group is liable for alternative minimum Tax for U.S. federal income Tax purposes (or any similar U.S. federal Tax) ("AMT") and the SNI Group would be liable for AMT if it filed a Tax Return as a separate consolidated group ("AMT"), SNI shall pay to EWS an amount (the "") determined by the Parties equal to the product of the AMT liability for the EWS Group (the "") and a fraction (the "") (x) the numerator of which is the sum of the Tax preference items and adjustments of the SNI Group relevant for purposes of the computation of AMT (the "") for such Affiliation Year and (y) the denominator of which is the sum of the TPIs of all members of the EWS Group for such Affiliation Year. The SNI AMT Liability for such Affiliation Year shall not exceed the amount of the SNI Separate AMT for such Affiliation Year.
SNI Tax Liability
SNI Separate
SNI AMT Liability
EWS AMT Liability
Fraction
TPIs
     (b) . If for any Affiliation Year SNI has paid to EWS the SNI AMT Liability, EWS shall pay to SNI its proportionate share (determined below) of the minimum Tax credit for U.S. federal income Tax purposes (the "") arising from such Affiliation Year which is actually utilized by the EWS Group in a subsequent Affiliation Year. SNI's proportionate share of such credit for any Affiliation Year shall be equal to the product of such credit and the Fraction (defined in subsection (a) above). In no event shall SNI be paid amounts in the aggregate in respect of such credit in excess of the corresponding SNI AMT Liability.
Minimum Tax Credits
Minimum Tax Credit
     SECTION 3.01. . If any member of an EWS Combined Group and any member of an SNI Combined Group are required to file, or if the Parties elect that any member of an EWS Combined Group and any member of an SNI Combined Group shall file a Combined Return for any taxable years, or where any U.S. state or local Taxing authority successfully asserts such a combined filing requirement, the allocation and settlement of amounts due between the Parties shall be governed by this Article III.
Returns Covered
     SECTION 3.02. . For each taxable year ending on or before December 31, 2007, the Parties shall determine each SNI Combined Group's respective share, as determined below, of the total U.S. state and local Tax liability in each such Combined State (each a ""). The SNI Combined Group's share of each Combined State Total Tax Liability ("") will be based on the apportionment percentage of all members of the SNI Combined Group, determined with reference only to those companies that are subject to such state's taxing jurisdiction, as if such members of the SNI Combined Group had filed a separate Combined Return. The SNI Group State Tax Liability will include any minimum or similar Taxes for members of each SNI Combined Group that may be required by the relevant state or locality. SNI shall be responsible for and pay to EWS, and shall indemnify EWS and EWS Affiliates from and against the SNI Group State Tax Liability for each Combined Return for all taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2007. Any Combined State Total Tax Liability in excess of the SNI Group State Tax Liability ("") shall be the responsibility of EWS and EWS shall indemnify SNI and SNI Affiliates from and against the EWS Group State Tax Liability for all taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2007.
Pre-2008 Taxable Year
Combined State Total Tax Liability
SNI Group State Tax Liability
EWS Group State Tax Liability
     SECTION 3.03. . Consistent with the approach applied for operating units of Total Combined Groups, the SNI Group State Tax Liability will not be reduced by, nor will SNI or any other SNI Combined Group member receive any payment, credit or benefit for, U.S. state or local net operating losses ("NOLs"), including any carryback or carryover NOLs, that any such member generates
Operating Losses
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
for U.S. state or local income Tax purposes on a stand-alone basis, whether or not they are used in a Combined Return (except insofar as such NOLs may reduce the SNI Combined Group's share of the total U.S. state and local Tax liability for a Total Combined Return).
     SECTION 3.04. . For the taxable years beginning on January 1, 2008, the Parties shall determine the SNI Combined Group's share of the total U.S state and local Tax liability in each Combined State in the same manner as set forth in Sections 3.02 and 3.03 above, taking into account the apportionment percentages and other relevant items of each appropriate SNI Combined Group through and including the Distribution Date. SNI shall be responsible for and pay to EWS, and shall indemnify EWS and the EWS Affiliates from and against, the SNI Group State Tax Liability for all Combined Returns and all Taxes attributable to the income of CPMCO for the taxable years beginning January 1, 2008.
2008 Taxable Year
     SECTION 3.05. . EWS and SNI agree that Combined Returns filed for Tax periods beginning January 1, 2008, will reflect a short taxable year for SNI ending on the Distribution Date in any state or local taxing jurisdiction in which such Tax year is allowed by administrative practice, whether or not required by law.
Short-Year State and Local Returns
     SECTION 3.06. . For each Combined State, the Parties will determine the SNI Combined Group's estimated Tax payments and extension payments (collectively, ""), will prescribe the information required to be provided by the SNI Combined Group to support EWS's preparation and filing of Combined Returns and payment of Estimated State Taxes, together with a schedule of due dates for providing of such information and paying its share of Estimated State Taxes, and SNI will timely and accurately provide and pay the same to EWS, the Parties will calculate the aggregate SNI Group State Tax Liability for all Combined States for a Combined Year less a credit for aggregate Estimated State Taxes paid or determine the refund due to SNI to the extent aggregate Estimated State Taxes paid by SNI exceed the aggregate SNI Group State Tax Liability. Payment by SNI is due within one (1) business day before the date such Tax are required to be paid. Payment by EWS to SNI of any SNI overpayment is due within five (5) business days after the return including the overpayment is filed.
Estimated Taxes, Etc
Estimated State Taxes
     SECTION 3.07. .
Adjustments
     (a) If an Adjustment occurs, the SNI Group State Tax Liability for the year in question shall be recomputed by the Parties, including all changes to apportionment percentages that result from such Adjustment. SNI shall make payments to EWS for an increase in the SNI Group Tax Liability or EWS shall make payments to SNI for a decrease in the SNI Group Tax Liability, including its allocable share of interest, penalties and additions to Tax and external costs. Payment in respect of such Adjustments by SNI is due at least one (1) business day before the date payment of such Adjustment is required to be made. Payment in respect of such Adjustments by EWS is due within five (5) business days after EWS receives a refund or credit for refund in respect of the items in question.
     (b) Subject to Article VIII, the Parties shall jointly control all Tax Contests relating to any such Adjustments.
     SECTION 4.01. . SNI shall be responsible for, and shall indemnify and hold harmless EWS and EWS Affiliates against, any and all U.S. federal, state and local and non-U.S. Taxes that are required to be reported on any separate Tax Return that does not include EWS or any EWS
SNI Tax Liability
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
Affiliate; , , for the 2008 Taxable Year the SNI Tax Liability shall include all Taxes attributable to the income of CPMCO.
provided
however
     SECTION 4.02. . EWS shall be responsible for, and shall indemnify and hold harmless SNI and SNI Affiliates against, any and all U.S. federal, state and local and non-U.S. Taxes that are required to be reported on any separate Tax Return that does not include SNI or any SNI Affiliate; , , for the 2008 Taxable Year the EWS Tax Liability shall not include any Taxes attributable to the income of CPMCO.
EWS Tax Liability
provided
however
     SECTION 4.03. . If there is an adjustment to a separate Tax Return of EWS and/or EWS Affiliates, or SNI and/or SNI Affiliates, as the case may be, that results in the inclusion in income in such Tax Return of income attributable to the other group of companies, and the recipient thereby incurs an Income Tax Detriment, SNI shall pay to EWS or EWS shall pay to SNI, as the case may be, an amount equal to such Income Tax Detriment (including any interest, penalties and additions to Tax) within thirty (30) business days after the Final Determination of such Income Tax Detriment.
Separate Return Adjustments
     SECTION 5.01. . SNI will not take or fail to take or permit any SNI Affiliates to take or fail to take any action inconsistent with or that will cause to be untrue any material information or representation in the Ruling Documents, representation letters that the Tax Advisor relied upon in rendering an opinion or opinions on the Tax-Free Status ("") or formal advice or opinion. EWS will not take or fail to take or permit any EWS Affiliates to take or fail to take any action inconsistent with or that will cause to be untrue any material information or representation in the Ruling Documents, Representation Letters or formal advice or opinion. In the event any material information or representation in the Ruling Documents or Representation Letters shall be untrue, EWS and SNI agree to allocate the Distribution Taxes arising therefrom 20% to EWS and 80% to SNI, SNI shall be responsible for, and shall indemnify and hold EWS and EWS Affiliates, and their direct and indirect shareholders harmless against, 80% of any Distribution Taxes and EWS shall be responsible for and shall indemnify and hold SNI and SNI Affiliates, and their direct and indirect shareholders harmless against 20% of any Distribution Taxes.
Tax-Free Status Ruling, Etc
Representation Letters
     SECTION 5.02. . SNI agrees that it intends to maintain the status of the Television Network and Interactive Businesses as an active trade or business as defined in Section 355(b)(2) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, that is part of, or treated as part of, the SNI Group for U.S. federal income Tax purposes. EWS agrees that it intends to maintain the status of the Newspaper Business and EWS Businesses as an active trade or business as defined in Section 355(b)(2) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder that is part of, or treated as part of the EWS Group for U.S. federal income Tax purposes.
Maintaining Status of Active Business
     SECTION 5.03. .
Limits on Proposed Acquisition Transactions
     (a) SNI agrees that, from the date hereof until the first day after the second anniversary of the Distribution Date, it shall not (i) enter into any Proposed SNI Acquisition Transaction, approve any Proposed SNI Acquisition Transaction or, to the extent SNI has the right to prohibit any Proposed SNI Acquisition Transaction, permit any Proposed SNI Acquisition Transaction to occur (whether by redeeming rights under a shareholder rights plan, finding a tender offer to be a "permitted offer" under any such plan or otherwise causing any such plan to be inapplicable or neutralized with respect to any Proposed SNI Acquisition Transaction), (ii) merge or consolidate with any other Person or liquidate or
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
partially liquidate, (iii) sell or otherwise transfer in a single transaction or series of transactions 40% or more of the gross or net assets of the SNI Business or 40% or more of the consolidated gross or net assets of SNI and the SNI Affiliates (such percentages to be measured based on fair market value as of the Distribution Date), (iv) redeem or otherwise repurchase (directly or through an SNI Affiliate) any SNI Capital Stock, or rights to acquire such stock; (v) amend its certificate of incorporation (or other organizational documents), or take any other action, whether through a stockholder vote or otherwise, affecting the relative voting rights of the separate classes of SNI Capital Stock (including, without limitation, through the conversion of one class of SNI Capital Stock into another class of SNI Capital Stock) or (vi) take any other action or actions (including any action or transaction that would be reasonably likely to be inconsistent with any representation made in the Ruling Documents, or Representation Letters, or any rulings, formal advice or opinion described in Section 5.01 above) which in the aggregate (taking into account any other transactions described in this Section 5.03) would be reasonably likely to have the effect of causing or permitting one or more Persons (whether or not acting in concert) to acquire, directly or indirectly, SNI Capital Stock representing a Fifty-Percent or Greater Interest in SNI or otherwise jeopardize the Tax-Free Status, unless prior to taking any such action set forth in the foregoing clauses (i) through (vi), (A) SNI shall have requested that EWS obtain a private letter ruling from the IRS and EWS shall have received such a ruling in form and substance satisfactory to EWS that confirms that the Tax-Free Status will be preserved, taking into account such action and other transactions in the aggregate, or (B) SNI shall provide EWS with an Unqualified Tax Opinion in form and substance acceptable to EWS (and on which EWS may rely) that confirms that the Tax-Free Status will be preserved, taking into account such action and other transactions in the aggregate, or (C) EWS shall have waived the requirement to obtain such ruling or opinion. In determining whether such a ruling is satisfactory or such opinion is acceptable, EWS may consider, among other factors, the appropriateness of any underlying assumptions and representations made in connection with such ruling or opinion. To the extent that any such ruling or opinion concerns the acquisition of a Fifty-Percent or Greater Interest in SNI, it shall expressly conclude that such acquisition will satisfy one or more of the safe harbors described in the Treasury Regulations promulgated under Section 355(e) of the Code. SNI shall bear all costs and expenses of securing any such ruling or opinion and shall reimburse EWS for all external costs and expenses that it may incur in good faith in seeking to obtain or evaluate any such ruling or opinion.
     (b) EWS agrees that, from the date hereof until the first day after the second anniversary of the Distribution Date, it shall not (i) enter into any Proposed EWS Group Acquisition Transaction, approve any Proposed Acquisition Transaction or, to the extent EWS has the right to prohibit any Proposed EWS Group Acquisition Transaction, permit any Proposed EWS Group Acquisition Transaction to occur (whether by redeeming rights under a shareholder rights plan, finding a tender offer to be a "permitted offer" under any such plan or otherwise causing any such plan to be inapplicable or neutralized with respect to any Proposed EWS Group Acquisition Transaction), (ii) merge or consolidate with any other Person or liquidate or partially liquidate, (iii) sell or otherwise transfer in a single transaction or series of transactions 40% or more of the gross or net assets of the EWS Business or 40% or more of the consolidated gross or net assets of EWS and the EWS Affiliates (such percentages to be measured based on fair market value as of the Distribution Date), (iv) redeem or otherwise repurchase (directly or through an EWS Affiliate) any EWS Capital Stock, or rights to acquire such stock; (v) amend its certificate of incorporation (or other organizational documents), or take any other action, whether through a stockholder vote or otherwise, affecting the relative voting rights of the separate classes of EWS Capital Stock (including, without limitation, through the conversion of one class of EWS Capital Stock into another class of EWS Capital Stock) or (vi) take any other action or actions (including any action or transaction that would be reasonably likely to be inconsistent with any representation made in the Ruling Documents, or Representation Letters, or any rulings, formal advice or opinion described in Section 5.01 above) which in the aggregate (taking into account any other transactions described in this Section 5.03) would be reasonably likely to have the effect of causing or permitting one or more Persons (whether or not acting in concert) to acquire, directly or indirectly, EWS Capital Stock representing a
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
Fifty-Percent or Greater Interest in EWS or otherwise jeopardize the Tax-Free Status, unless prior to taking any such action set forth in the foregoing clauses (i) through (vi), (A) EWS shall have obtained a private letter ruling from the IRS and EWS shall have received such a ruling in form and substance satisfactory to SNI that confirms that the Tax-Free Status will be preserved, taking into account such action and other transactions in the aggregate, or (B) EWS shall provide SNI with an Unqualified Tax Opinion in form and substance acceptable to SNI (and on which SNI may rely) that confirms that the Tax-Free Status will be preserved, taking into account such action and other transactions in the aggregate, or (C) SNI shall have waived the requirement to obtain such ruling or opinion. In determining whether such a ruling or opinion is satisfactory, SNI may consider, among other factors, the appropriateness of any underlying assumptions and representations made in connection with such ruling or opinion. To the extent that any such ruling or opinion concerns the acquisition of a Fifty-Percent or Greater Interest in EWS, it shall expressly conclude that such acquisition will satisfy one or more of the safe harbors described in the Treasury Regulations promulgated under Section 355(e) of the Code. EWS shall bear all costs and expenses of securing any such ruling or opinion and shall reimburse EWS for all external costs and expenses that it may incur in good faith in seeking to obtain or evaluate any such ruling or opinion.
     SECTION 5.04. .
Indemnity
     (a) Subject to subsection (c) of this section, SNI shall be responsible for, and shall indemnify and hold EWS and EWS Affiliates and their direct and indirect shareholders harmless against any Distribution Taxes, to the extent such Distribution Taxes are attributable to, caused by, or result from one or more of the following:
          (i) any action or omission by SNI or any SNI Affiliate, at any time, that is inconsistent with any information, covenant or representation in the Ruling Documents, Representation Letters or any tax opinions concerning the Tax-Free Status of the Distribution;
          (ii) any action or omission by SNI or any SNI Affiliate, after the Distribution (including any act or omission that is in furtherance of, connected to, or part of a plan or series of related transactions (within the meaning of section 355(e) of the Code) occurring on or prior to the Distribution), including a cessation, transfer to affiliates, or disposition of the active trades or businesses, stock buyback or payment of an extraordinary dividend;
          (iii) any acquisition of any stock or assets of SNI or any SNI Affiliate, by one or more other Persons (other than EWS or any EWS Affiliate) prior to or following the Distribution;
          (iv) any issuance of stock by SNI or any SNI Affiliate, after the Distribution, including any issuance pursuant to the exercise of employee stock options or other employment related arrangements, or the exercise of warrants; or
          (v) any change in ownership of stock in SNI or any SNI Affiliate after the Distribution.
     (b) Subject to subsection (c) of this section, EWS shall be responsible for, and shall indemnify and hold SNI and SNI Affiliates and their direct and indirect shareholders harmless against any Distribution Taxes, to the extent such Distribution Taxes are attributable to, caused by, or result from one or more of the following:
          (i) any action or omission by EWS or any EWS Affiliate, at any time, that is inconsistent with any information, covenant or representation in the Ruling Documents, Representation Letters or any tax opinions concerning the Tax-Free Status of the Distribution;
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
          (ii) any action or omission by EWS or any EWS Affiliate, after the Distribution (including any act or omission that is in furtherance of, connected to, or part of a plan or series of related transactions (within the meaning of section 355(e) of the Code) occurring on or prior to the Distribution), including a cessation, transfer to affiliates, or disposition of the active trades or businesses, stock buyback or payment of an extraordinary dividend;
          (iii) any acquisition of any stock or assets of EWS or any EWS Affiliate, by one or more other Persons prior to or following the Distribution;
          (iv) any issuance of stock by EWS or any EWS Affiliate, after the Distribution, including any issuance pursuant to the exercise of employee stock options or other employment related arrangements, or the exercise of warrants; or
          (v) any change in ownership of stock in EWS or any EWS Affiliate after the Distribution.
     (c) For purposes of calculating the amount and timing of any Tax-Related Loss in connection with any Tax payable by an indemnified party, such loss shall be calculated by assuming that the indemnified party pays income Tax at the Highest Combined Tax Rate in effect in each relevant taxable year and that the income arising in connection with the Tax-Related Losses is the only item of income, deduction, Credit or loss for such year. SNI shall pay EWS or such other applicable indemnified party the amount of any such Tax-Related Losses for which SNI is responsible under this Section 5.04 within one (1) business day before payment is due from EWS or such other party. EWS shall pay SNI or such other applicable indemnified party the amount of any such Tax-Related Losses for which EWS is responsible under this Section 5.04 within one (1) business day before payment is due from SNI or such other party.
     (d) Until all applicable statutes of limitations with respect to Distribution Taxes expire (after giving effect to any extensions or waivers thereof), SNI shall not (i) merge or consolidate with any other Person or liquidate or partially liquidate into any other Person, (ii) sell or otherwise transfer to any other Person or group of Persons, directly or indirectly, in a single transaction or series of transactions 25% or more of the gross or net assets of SNI (such percentage to be determined based on fair market value as of the Distribution Date), (iii) engage in any other reorganization or restructuring with any other Person, or (iv) agree or permit any Person or group of Persons, directly or indirectly, in a single transaction or series of transactions, to acquire a Fifty Percent or Greater Interest in SNI, unless, in each case, each such Person agrees, to EWS' satisfaction, to be jointly and severally liable with SNI in its obligations under this Article V.
     (e) Until all applicable statutes of limitations with respect to Distribution Taxes expire (after giving effect to any extensions or waivers thereof), EWS shall not (i) merge or consolidate with any other Person or liquidate or partially liquidate into any other Person, (ii) sell or otherwise transfer to any other Person or group of Persons, directly or indirectly, in a single transaction or series of transactions 25% or more of the gross or net assets of EWS (such percentage to be determined based on fair market value as of the Distribution Date), (iii) engage in any other reorganization or restructuring with any other Person, or (iv) agree or permit any Person or group of Persons, directly or indirectly, in a single transaction or series of transactions, to acquire a Fifty Percent or Greater Interest in EWS, unless, in each case, each such Person agrees, to SNI's satisfaction, to be jointly and severally liable with EWS in its obligations under this Article V.
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
     SECTION 6.01. . The Parties will apportion any U.S. federal consolidated net operating or capital losses, Credits or other applicable items between members of the SNI Group (departing from the EWS Group as a consequence of the Distribution and related transactions) and members of the EWS Group (not taking into account SNI Group members) pursuant to applicable Treasury Regulations promulgated under Section 1502 of the Code. Such consolidated items and their apportionment will be adjusted to reflect any Adjustments that take place in applicable Affiliation Years.
Carryovers to Post-Affiliation Years
     SECTION 6.02. .
Carrybacks from Post-Affiliation Years
     (a) . If SNI and/or its subsidiaries sustain U.S. federal capital or net operating losses or generate U.S. federal Credits in a Post-Affiliation Year which may be carried back to an Affiliation Year and will generate an Income Tax Benefit, SNI may request EWS to file a Section 6.02 Claim with the IRS with respect to the U.S. federal income Tax liability of the EWS Group for such Affiliation Year. EWS shall have sole discretion whether to accept a request to file carryback claims (except for foreign Tax Credit or domestic source capital loss carryback claims) and file any amended Tax Returns or claims for refund relating thereto, which discretion may be exercised without regard to satisfying a standard of good faith or any other standard provided for in this Agreement or elsewhere. With regard to requests to file foreign Tax Credit or domestic source capital loss carryback claims to an Affiliation Year, EWS will implement such requests it determines in good faith to be available on the terms set forth hereinafter.
Carryback Items
     (b) . If EWS files a Section 6.02 Claim, EWS shall have full control over the Section 6.02 Claim and will consult with SNI to determine the nature of all actions to be taken in connection with such claim. If there is any limitation that applies to the EWS Group in respect of all or a portion of the items that comprise a Section 6.02 Claim in respect of foreign Tax Credits or domestic source capital losses, any Income Tax Benefit in respect of such claim shall be determined by EWS in consultation with SNI. If there any limitations in the ability of the EWS Group to utilize items in the same category as the items that comprise such claim, any Income Tax Benefit will be determined by EWS in consultation with SNI based on the assumption that the items were utilized on a Proportionate Basis, EWS will pay to SNI the amount of the Income Tax Benefit, if any, derived from such claim within 30 business days after it receives a refund or credit for refund therefor. SNI will repay to EWS all or a portion of such amount to the extent the Income Tax Benefit is reduced as a result of an Adjustment for any Affiliation Year or otherwise, together with applicable interest and penalties. If EWS elects to file a Section 6.02 Claim in respect of the carryback of any attribute other than foreign Tax Credits or domestic source capital losses, the terms for payment and other provisions shall be determined based upon the mutual agreement, if any, of the Parties. If EWS files a Section 6.02 Claim, SNI will indemnify EWS for any additional Taxes or loss of Tax benefits incurred by a member of the EWS Group (including interest, penalties and additions to Tax) arising from such claim. EWS shall also be entitled to reimbursement from SNI for any reasonable external costs for professional services incurred by EWS in connection with the Section 6.02 Claim whether or not SNI receives payment or credit therefor.
Procedures
     SECTION 7.01. . If an Adjustment occurs, the liability of SNI or EWS, as the case may be, pursuant to Article II hereof, or the amounts allocated pursuant to Article VI, shall be recomputed by the Parties. As recomputed for purposes of Article II, SNI shall make payments to EWS
Determination
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
for an increase in SNI's liability or EWS shall make payments to SNI for an increase in EWS' liability. For purposes of Sections 2.01 and 2.02, SNI's liability shall be deemed to have increased by any Adjustment that results in an increase in the Adjusted Separate SNI Group Federal Tax Liability or a decrease in the Excess EWS Group Benefits, and EWS' liability shall be deemed to have increased by any Adjustment that results in a decrease in the Adjusted Separate SNI Group Federal Tax Liability or an increase in the Excess EWS Group Benefits.
     SECTION 7.02. . Payments due from SNI to EWS shall be made no later than one (1) business day before the due date for payment by EWS to a Taxing authority upon the Final Determination of the items in question, or, to the extent no such payment is due, within ten (10) business days after the date of such Final Determination. Payments due from EWS to SNI shall be made within ten (10) business days after EWS receives a refund or a credit for a refund with regard to the items in question after a Final Determination therefor. Such payments shall include any applicable interest, penalties and additions to Tax and, if applicable, any reasonable external costs for professional services incurred by EWS thereon. In calculating any interest payable by SNI to EWS hereunder, interest, if any, due from EWS to the IRS shall first be deemed to arise with respect to the increase in the liability of SNI, as determined above.
Payments
     SECTION 7.03. . Subject to Section 6.02 hereof, for any Affiliation Year or Combined Year, the Parties will determine whether to give effect, through any Tax Return, claim for refund or otherwise, to items of loss, deduction or Credit for the SNI Group which are greater than those reflected on prior Tax Returns and the nature of all actions taken with respect thereto. If EWS files such a claim, SNI will indemnify EWS for any additional Taxes or loss of Tax benefits incurred by a member of the EWS Group or the applicable Total Combined Group (including interest, penalties and additions to Tax) arising from such claim.
Procedures
     SECTION 7.04. . If any transaction or arrangement between EWS and/or EWS Affiliates, on the one hand, and SNI and/or SNI Affiliates, on the other hand, is recharacterized for applicable Tax purposes under Section 482 of the Code or otherwise and such recharacterization results in an Income Tax Detriment to one applicable group of companies and an Income Tax Benefit to the other group, the group incurring the Income Tax Detriment shall be paid by the other group an amount equal to such Income Tax Detriment (including any interest, penalties and additions to Tax) within thirty (30) business days after the Final Settlement of such Income Tax Detriment. In addition, each Party hereto shall be responsible for, and shall indemnify and hold the other Party and its Affiliates harmless against, any Taxes attributable to intercompany items or otherwise for any stock or other assets (tangible or intangible) transferred to it (or an EWS Affiliate, in the case of EWS, or an SNI Affiliate, in the case of SNI) from the other Party hereto (or an EWS Affiliate, in the case of EWS, or an SNI Affiliate, in the case of SNI) for which it is determined not to have paid or provided fair market value consideration.
Intercompany Adjustments
     SECTION 8.01. . Each Party shall provide prompt notice to the other Party of any pending or threatened Tax audit, assessment, proceeding or other Tax Contest of which it becomes aware that could affect any Tax liability for which the other Party may be responsible under this Agreement; provided, however, that failure to give prompt notice shall not affect the indemnification obligations hereunder except to the extent the Party providing indemnification is actually prejudiced thereby. Such notice shall contain factual information (to the extent known) describing such matters in reasonable detail and shall be accompanied by copies of any notice and other documents received from any Taxing authority in respect of any such matters.
Notice
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
     SECTION 8.02. . EWS and SNI hereby agree that during the course of an audit or any Tax Contest relating to any Affiliation Year, they will in good faith endeavor to discuss and resolve separately with the IRS district agents or any equivalent state or local Taxing authority any SNI Issues and EWS Issues. "" are issues relating to items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or Credit that are attributable solely to the SNI Group and that could not reasonably have material adverse consequences for the U.S. federal, state or local income Tax liability of a member of the EWS Group (other than a member of the SNI Group) if resolved against the taxpayer. "" are any other issues, including issues relating to Foreign Attributes of the SNI Group.
SNI and EWS Issues
SNI Issues
EWS Issues
     SECTION 8.03. .
Procedures
     (a) In the event a Revenue Agent's Report ("") or equivalent state or local report is issued with respect to an Affiliation Year and the RAR or equivalent state or local report contains Adjustments proposed with respect to SNI Issues, at SNI's request, EWS shall protest (as provided for in applicable Treasury Regulations or applicable state or local rules and regulations) the adjustments made with respect to SNI Issues. SNI will prepare that portion of any protest which it determines should be filed in connection with any Adjustment proposed with respect to SNI Issues and shall limit such portion of the protest to the defense of the specific SNI Issues raised in the RAR or equivalent state or local report.
RAR
     (b) After the filing of such protest, EWS and SNI shall jointly meet with the IRS, state or local representatives responsible for disposing of the issues in dispute and request the separate resolution of the EWS and SNI Issues. They shall further request that the IRS or equivalent state or local Taxing authority assign separate representatives to conduct any review of or proceedings on their respective issues.
     (c) Regardless of whether the IRS or equivalent state or local Taxing authority agrees to resolve the issues affecting each Party or assign separate representatives to deal with the issues of each, EWS and SNI each will attend meetings and will prepare written presentations to be made to the IRS regarding any Adjustments proposed only with respect to its respective issues. EWS and SNI shall keep each other promptly informed of any developments and discussions at any such meetings concerning Adjustments, whether or not formally proposed, affecting the other Party.
     (d) For each Affiliation Year, EWS shall have control of all EWS Issues not otherwise settled at the audit or appeals level of the IRS or equivalent state or local Taxing authority. For each Affiliation Year, SNI shall have control of all SNI Issues not otherwise settled by SNI at the audit or appeals level of the IRS or equivalent state or local Taxing authority ("").
SNI Unsettled Issues
     (e) To the extent any EWS Issues could affect any Tax liability for which the SNI Group may be responsible, SNI shall have joint control over decisions to resolve, settle or otherwise agree to any deficiency, claim or Adjustment, and EWS shall not settle any such EWS Issue without the consent of SNI, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld. To the extent that any SNI Issues could affect any Tax liability for which the EWS Group may be responsible, EWS shall have joint control over decisions to resolve, settle or otherwise agree to any deficiency, claim or Adjustment, and SNI shall not settle any such SNI Issue without the consent of EWS, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld.
     SECTION 8.04. .
Forum for Judicial Proceedings
     (a) Prior to instituting legal proceedings with respect to an SNI Unsettled Issue, SNI shall, at its sole cost and expense, unless EWS agrees to waive the same, obtain an evaluation of the SNI Unsettled Issues from an independent attorney experienced in the field of U.S. federal corporate income Taxation,
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
who shall be selected jointly by the Parties and who, in the case of a listed or reportable transaction for U.S. federal income Tax Purposes, is not a disqualified Tax advisor within the meaning of Section 6664(d)(3)(B)(ii) of the Code. The evaluation shall state, for the SNI Unsettled Issues on an issue by issue basis, whether, in the opinion of the attorney (which in the case of a listed transaction or reportable transaction for U.S. federal income Tax purposes does not constitute a disqualified Tax opinion as defined in Section 6664(d) of the Code) the filing position will more likely than not be sustained. Any discussions with respect to the evaluation shall be held with both Parties jointly, and such attorney shall send a copy of the evaluation (including any drafts thereof) to both Parties simultaneously.
     (b) If the evaluation discloses any SNI Unsettled Issues which do not fully meet the aforementioned standards as applicable, SNI shall be obligated to settle such issues with the IRS or equivalent state or local authority at its own cost and expense within a reasonable period of time after receipt of the evaluation. In any case where judicial proceedings are instituted, with respect to an Affiliation Year, EWS shall be entitled to select the forum for such judicial proceedings, unless such proceedings involve SNI Unsettled Issues or issues that could affect any Tax liability for which the SNI Group may be responsible. If SNI Unsettled Issues or issues that could affect any Tax liability for which the SNI Group may be responsible are involved, SNI shall be entitled to participate in the selection of the forum for judicial proceedings. Each Party shall bear the costs of litigation in respect of its own issues.
     (c) Prior to instituting legal proceedings with respect to an EWS Unsettled Issue, EWS shall, at its sole cost and expense, unless SNI agrees to waive the same, obtain an evaluation of the EWS Unsettled Issues from an independent attorney experienced in the field of U.S. federal corporate income Taxation, who shall be selected jointly by the Parties and who, in the case of a listed or reportable transaction for U.S. federal income Tax Purposes, is not a disqualified Tax advisor within the meaning of Section 6664(d)(3)(B)(ii) of the Code. The evaluation shall state, for the EWS Unsettled Issues on an issue by issue basis, whether, in the opinion of the attorney (which in the case of a listed transaction or reportable transaction for U.S. federal income Tax purposes does not constitute a disqualified Tax opinion as defined in Section 6664(d) of the Code) the filing position will more likely than not be sustained. Any discussions with respect to the evaluation shall be held with both Parties jointly, and such attorney shall send a copy of the evaluation (including any drafts thereof) to both Parties simultaneously.
     (d) If the evaluation discloses any EWS Unsettled Issues which do not fully meet the aforementioned standards as applicable, EWS shall be obligated to settle such issues with the IRS or equivalent state or local authority at its own cost and expense within a reasonable period of time after receipt of the evaluation. EWS shall be entitled to select the forum for such judicial proceedings, unless such proceedings involve SNI Unsettled Issues or issues that could affect any Tax liability for which the SNI Group may be responsible. If EWS Unsettled Issues or issues that could affect any Tax liability for which the SNI Group may be responsible are involved, SNI shall be entitled to participate in the selection of the forum for judicial proceedings. Each Party shall bear the costs of litigation in respect of its own issues.
     SECTION 9.01. . Any Tax indemnity payments hereunder or payments made in respect of Tax-Related Losses hereunder shall, unless otherwise required by law, be reported for Tax purposes by the payer and the recipient as a cash capital contribution by EWS or a cash distribution by SNI, as the case may be, immediately before the Distribution. If, notwithstanding such reporting, such payment results in additional taxable income to the recipient, such payments shall be increased such that the amount that the recipient receives (net of Taxes) shall equal the amount of the payment that it would otherwise be entitled to receive pursuant to this Agreement.
Reporting of Indemnity Payments, Etc
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
     SECTION 9.02. . If any payments hereunder are not made when due, interest shall accrue on the unpaid amount at the underpayment rate for large corporate underpayments, in effect from time to time under Section 6621 of the Code, while such amount is outstanding.
Interest on Late Payments
     SECTION 10.01. .
Cooperation and Furnishing of Tax Return Information
     (a) . EWS and SNI each agree to cooperate fully in connection with the preparation of any Tax Return relating to any Affiliation Year or Combined Year and the resolution of any related Tax audits, proceedings or disputes.
Cooperation
     (b) . For purposes of the preparation by EWS of Tax Returns for the taxable years ending on December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008, respectively, on or prior to such date(s) as specified by EWS, SNI shall provide EWS with Tax information for all members of each SNI Combined Group, including but not limited to, schedule(s) showing the items of income, gain, loss, deduction and Credit and Foreign Attributes with respect to each such taxable year required to be included in applicable Tax Returns and complete work papers together with such other information as EWS may request. The information provided by SNI shall be consistent with any similar information provided by SNI to EWS for prior taxable years.
Tax Return Information
     (c) . SNI represents that it has provided, and agrees to promptly provide, to EWS complete and accurate information that is required or EWS requests to satisfy all applicable U.S. federal, state and local, and non-U.S. disclosure and reporting requirements in respect of listed transactions, reportable transactions and other transactions that may be viewed as Tax-motivated, including, but not limited to, U.S. state expense disallowance information. SNI also represents that it has provided, and agrees to promptly provide, to EWS all documents and other information that is required or EWS requests to satisfy the transfer pricing and other documentation requirements set forth in Sections 482 and 6662 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder or otherwise (including analogous provisions under U.S. state and local or non-U.S. law), including but not limited to, principal documents as defined in Treasury Regulations Section 1.6662-6(d)(2)(iii)(B), and to address any transfer pricing audit issue arising under Section 482 of the Code or otherwise, shall promptly provide to EWS any documents and information it may request, including background documents as defined in Treasury Regulations Section 1.6662-6(d)(2)(iii)(C). SNI further represents that it has provided, and agrees to promptly provide, to EWS all internal and external tax opinions memoranda relating to the transactions and other matters addressed in this subsection (c). If SNI fails to timely satisfy the requirements of this subsection (c), it will indemnify, and hold EWS and EWS Affiliates harmless against, any Taxes, interest, penalties or additions to Tax arising therefrom.
SNI Disclosures
     (d) . EWS represents that it has provided, and agrees to promptly provide, to SNI complete and accurate information that is required or SNI requests to satisfy all applicable U.S. federal, state and local, and non-U.S. disclosure and reporting requirements in respect of listed transactions, reportable transactions and other transactions that may be viewed as Tax-motivated, including, but not limited to, U.S. state expense disallowance information. EWS also represents that it has provided, and agrees to promptly provide, to SNI all documents and other information that is required or SNI requests to satisfy the transfer pricing and other documentation requirements set forth in Sections 482 and 6662 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder or otherwise (including analogous provisions under U.S. state and local or non-U.S. law), including but not limited to, principal documents as defined in Treasury Regulations Section 1.6662-6(d)(2)(iii)(B), and to address any transfer pricing audit issue arising under Section 482 of the Code or otherwise, shall promptly provide to SNI any
EWS Disclosures
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
documents and information it may request, including background documents as defined in Treasury Regulations Section 1.6662-6(d)(2)(iii)(C). EWS further represents that it has provided, and agrees to promptly provide, to SNI all internal and external tax opinions memoranda relating to the transactions and other matters addressed in this subsection (d). If EWS fails to timely satisfy the requirements of this subsection (d), it will indemnify, and hold SNI and SNI Affiliates harmless against, any Taxes, interest, penalties or additions to Tax arising therefrom.
     SECTION 10.02. .
Preparation of Tax Returns
     (a) . EWS shall have sole authority for the preparation and filing of any consolidated U.S. federal income Tax Return or Combined Tax Return, which include the items of income, gain, loss, deduction and Credit of the SNI Group or any SNI Combined Group for all relevant taxable periods, including but not limited to, determination of Foreign Attributes. With respect to the U.S. federal income Tax Returns for the taxable years ending December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008, respectively, EWS agrees to afford SNI a meaningful opportunity to review and comment on such returns, and shall consider such comments in good faith. In addition, with respect to any Combined Tax Return for the taxable years ending December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008, respectively, in which SNI is projected to have Tax liability in excess of $10,000, EWS agrees to afford SNI a meaningful opportunity to review and comment on such returns, and shall consider such comments in good faith. Any decisions with respect to the timing, filing, or content of the above Tax Returns shall be made jointly by the Parties.
Preparation
     (b) . SNI and the appropriate members of the SNI Group or an SNI Combined Group shall make or give their consent to such elections or other matters relating to the SNI Group or an SNI Combined Group as the Parties determine are necessary or advisable in connection with the filing of any such Tax Returns. In addition, no member of the SNI Group may elect to be considered as not having been a member of the EWS Group for U.S. federal income Tax purposes and no member of an SNI Combined Group may elect to be considered as not having been a member of a Total Combined Group for U.S. state or local Tax purposes for any taxable year or portion thereof without the prior written consent of EWS.
Elections
     SECTION 11.01. . SNI shall not and shall not permit any of the SNI Affiliates to (i) file or amend any Tax Return for the Post Affiliation Year or a Post Combined Year beginning on the first day following the Distribution Date, in a manner that is inconsistent with the manner in which EWS filed its Tax Returns in an Affiliation Year or a Combined Year or (ii) make any election for any Post Affiliation Year or Post Combined Year if such election would have the effect of binding or requiring conformity by any member of the EWS Group or any Total Combined Group for any Affiliation Year or Combined Year.
Returns
     SECTION 11.02. . SNI shall be obligated to inform and disclose fully to EWS any actions taken or transactions undertaken in a Post Affiliation Year or a Post Combined Year which can reasonably be expected to affect in any material way the Tax liability of the EWS Group for any Affiliation Year or a Total Combined Group for any Combined Year.
Actions or Transactions
     SECTION 11.03. . SNI shall promptly notify EWS and keep EWS apprised of any proposed Adjustments which arise out of an audit or examination of a Post-Affiliation Year or Post-Combined Year Tax Return which could reasonably be expected to affect in any material
Proposed Adjustments
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
way the Tax liability for any Affiliation Year or Combined Years or which could reasonably result in treatment of items that is inconsistent with the manner in which EWS filed its Tax Returns for such years.
     SECTION 12.01. . Without limiting any of the provisions of this Agreement, each of the Parties agrees that it shall retain, until the expiration of the appropriate statutes of limitations (including any extensions) plus ninety (90) days, copies of any Tax Returns for any open periods during the Affiliation Years and Combined Return Years which might be subject to Adjustment under this Agreement, supporting work schedules and other books, records or information which may be relevant and that it will not destroy or otherwise dispose of such records without first providing the other Party with a reasonable opportunity to review and copy the same. Without limiting the foregoing, SNI shall cooperate with EWS in identifying such books, records or information and so retain or provide to EWS such books, records or information as may be specified by EWS in writing within 180 days after the Distribution Date. Any information obtained pursuant to this Agreement, or any other information obtained by EWS or SNI relating to the Tax position of either Party shall be kept confidential by the Parties hereto, except if otherwise required by a Taxing authority.
Retention Period
     SECTION 12.02. . Without limiting the foregoing, each of the Parties hereto agrees that it shall retain copies of any books and records in its possession as required by any record retention agreement in effect from time to time, between EWS and the IRS or any other Taxing authority.
Record Retention Policy
     SECTION 12.03. . SNI shall maintain and provide to EWS upon request information which will enable EWS to determine, clarify or verify the adjusted book and Tax bases of the SNI stock held by EWS, SNI's assets, both tangible and intangible, including the stock of all directly and indirectly owned subsidiaries of SNI which were members of the SNI Group or an SNI Combined Group at any time during Affiliation Years or Combined Years (but not any taxable year which does not affect an Affiliation Year or a Combined Year), and the adjusted book and Tax bases of all assets, both tangible and intangible, of such subsidiaries. In addition, SNI shall maintain and provide to EWS upon request all relevant information for the determination of earnings and profits of any members of the SNI Group, in accordance with applicable provisions of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.
Tax Attributes
     SECTION 12.04. . The Parties shall determine the portion, if any, of any earnings and profits, tax attribute, overall foreign loss, capitalized research and development expenditures or other consolidated, combined or unitary attribute which shall be allocated or apportioned to the SNI Group under applicable law. SNI and all members of the SNI Group shall prepare all Tax Returns in accordance with such written notice. In the event of a subsequent Adjustment to such allocations and apportionments, EWS shall promptly notify SNI in writing of such Adjustment. For the absence of doubt, EWS shall not be liable to SNI or any member of the SNI Group for any failure of any determination under this Section 12.03 to be accurate.
Apportionment of Earnings and Profits and Tax Attributes
     SECTION 13.01. . Except as provided in Section 13.02, for U.S. federal, applicable U.S. state and local income and other Tax purposes, all deductions in respect of compensation and employee benefits, whether on or before or after the Distribution Date, shall be allocated to EWS (or its appropriate subsidiary) or SNI (or its appropriate subsidiary) based on the entity which, directly or indirectly, provides (or is obligated to provide) the cash or other consideration to its employees, former
General
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
employees or other service providers or any individual whose rights are derived from such individual's relationship with such employee, former employee or service provider.
     SECTION 13.02. . For U.S. federal, applicable U.S. state and local income and other Tax purposes, all deductions in respect of Options, Restricted Shares and Restricted Share Units, whether on or before or after the Distribution Date, shall be allocated as follows:
Stock-Based Awards
     (a) Deductions in respect of Old EWS Options that are exercised on or before the Distribution Date and Old EWS Restricted Shares that vest (or with respect to which a timely Section 83(b) election has been made) on or before the Distribution Date shall be allocated to EWS (and shall accordingly not be taken into account in computing Adjusted Separate SNI Group Federal Tax Liability).
     (b) Deductions in respect of New EWS Options, New EWS Restricted Shares, SNI Options and SNI Restricted Shares that are held by EWS Participants and EWS Directors immediately after the Distribution Date shall be allocated to EWS.
     (c) Deductions in respect of SNI Options, SNI Restricted Shares and SNI Restricted Share Units that are held by SNI Participants and SNI Directors immediately after the Distribution Date shall be allocated to SNI.
     (d) Deductions in respect of New EWS Options and SNI Options that are held by Joint EWS/SNI Directors immediately after the Distribution Date as a result of Section 7.02(d)(iii)(A) of the Employee Matters Agreement shall be allocated to EWS. Deductions in respect of SNI Options that are held by Joint EWS/NI Directors immediately after the Distribution Date as a result of Section 7.02(d)(iii)(B) of the Employee Matters Agreement shall be allocated to SNI.
     SECTION 13.03. . Unless otherwise required by law, EWS and SNI shall for themselves and their appropriate subsidiaries compute their respective Tax liability and file all applicable Tax Returns in accordance with the allocations under Sections 13.01 and 13.02 above. In the event that any deduction allocated under such Sections to one entity is subsequently required by law to be reported by another entity for Tax purposes, EWS or SNI shall pay the entity to which the deduction was allocated under such Sections such amounts as are necessary to put such entity in the same position, on an after Tax basis, as it would have been if the allocation under such Sections had been respected.
Reporting of Deductions
     SECTION 13.04. .
Employment Taxes and Tax Reporting
     (a) To the extent that EWS, SNI or any of their subsidiaries is allocated a deduction for Tax purposes under Sections 13.01 and 13.02 above or otherwise, then subject to any obligations under the Employee Matters Agreement, the entity to which the deduction is allocated shall be solely responsible for satisfying any withholding and employment Tax liabilities and Tax reporting obligations in respect of the compensation that corresponds to such deduction.
     (b) SNI shall notify EWS of any event after the Distribution date giving rise to income to any EWS Participant in connection with any SNI Option or SNI Restricted Share by 12:00 PM of the first business day after such event.
     SECTION 14.01. . All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications hereunder must be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given only if delivered personally or
Notices
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
by facsimile transmission or mailed (first class postage prepaid) to the Parties at the following addresses or facsimile numbers:
     If to EWS or any member of the EWS Group, to:
The E.W. Scripps Company 312 Walnut Street Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Facsimile: (513) 977-3090 Attention: Tax Department
with a copy to:
The E.W. Scripps Company 312 Walnut Street Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Facsimile: (513) 977-3042 Attention: William Appleton, Senior Vice President and General Counsel
If to SNI or any member of the SNI Group, to:
Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. 312 Walnut Street Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Facsimile: (513) 977-3090 Attention: John E. Viterisi, Vice President Tax
with a copy to:
Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. 312 Walnut Street Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Facsimile: (513) 977-5166 Attention: Anatolio B. Cruz III, Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary
All such notices, requests and other communications will (i) if delivered personally to the address as provided in this section, be deemed given upon delivery, (ii) if delivered by facsimile transmission to the facsimile number as provided in this section, be deemed given upon receipt and (iii) if delivered by mail in the manner described above to the address as provided in this section, be deemed given upon receipt (in each case regardless of whether such notice, request or other communication is received by any other Person to whom a copy of such notice, request or other communication is to be delivered pursuant to this section). Any Party from time to time may change its address, facsimile number or other information for the purpose of notices to that Party by giving notice specifying such change to the other Party.
     SECTION 14.02. .
Complete Agreement; Representations
     (a) This Agreement, together with any exhibits and schedules hereto, constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and shall supersede all previous negotiations, commitments and writings with respect to such subject matter.
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
     (b) EWS represents on behalf of itself and each other member of the EWS Group and SNI represents on behalf of itself and each other member of the SNI Group as follows:
          (i) each such Person has the requisite corporate or other power and authority and has taken all corporate or other action necessary in order to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement to which it is a Party and to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; and
          (ii) this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by such Person (if such Person is a Party) and constitutes a valid and binding agreement of it enforceable in accordance with the terms hereof (assuming the due execution and delivery thereof by the other Party) except as such enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, fraudulent conveyance, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and by general equitable principles.
     SECTION 14.03. .
Amendment, Modification, or Waiver
     (a) This Agreement may be amended, supplemented, modified or superseded only by a written instrument signed by duly authorized signatories of the Parties.
     (b) Any term or condition of this Agreement may be waived at any time by the Party that is entitled to the benefit thereof, but no such waiver shall be effective unless set forth in a written instrument duly executed by or on behalf of the Party waiving such term or condition. No waiver by any Party of any term or condition of this Agreement, in any one or more instances, shall be deemed or construed as a waiver of the same or any other term or condition of this Agreement on any future occasion. All remedies, either under this Agreement or by law or otherwise afforded, will be cumulative and not alternative.
     SECTION 14.04. . If any provision of this Agreement shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision of this Agreement.
Severability
     SECTION 14.05. . No provision of this Agreement shall be construed to provide an indemnity or other recovery for any costs, damages or other amounts for which the injured Party has been fully compensated under any other provision of this Agreement or under any other agreement or action at law or equity. Unless expressly required in this Agreement, a Party shall not be required to exhaust all remedies available under other agreements or at law or equity before recovering under the remedies provided in this Agreement.
No Double Recovery
     SECTION 14.06. .
Costs and Expenses
     (a) . EWS shall provide services in connection with this Agreement, including but not limited to, those services relating to the preparation of returns and determination of the Tax liability of SNI as described in this Agreement. SNI shall pay EWS compensation or fees for such services with respect to 2007 Taxable Year and 2008 Taxable Year in accordance with the allocation of corporate overhead for the 2007 Taxable Year and the period for the 2008 Taxable Year prior to the Distribution, respectively.
EWS Services
     (b) . Except as expressly set forth in this Agreement, each Party shall bear its own costs and expenses incurred pursuant to this Agreement, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys' fees, accountant fees and other related professional fees and disbursements.
Other Expenses
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
     SECTION 14.07. .
No Assignment; Binding Effect; No Third-Party Beneficiaries
     (a) Neither this Agreement nor any right, interest or obligation hereunder may be assigned by either Party hereto without the prior written consent of the other Party hereto and any attempt to do so will be void. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Agreement is binding upon, inures to the benefit of and is enforceable by the Parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
     (b) Except for provisions relating to Affiliates and the provisions of Article V relating to Tax-Related Losses, the terms and provisions of this Agreement are intended solely for the benefit of each Party hereto and their respective Affiliates, successors or permitted assigns, and it is not the intention of the Parties to confer third-party beneficiary rights upon any other Person.
     (c) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, unless the context indicates otherwise, if an obligation is imposed on EWS or SNI hereunder it shall cause any Person that directly or indirectly controls or is controlled by it to comply therewith to the extent reasonably necessary to carry out such obligation. "Control" for these purposes shall have the same meaning as that set forth under the definition of "Affiliate".
     SECTION 14.08. . The headings used in this Agreement have been inserted for convenience of reference only and do not define or limit the provisions hereof.
Headings
     SECTION 14.09. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
     SECTION 14.10. . This Agreement and any dispute arising out of, in connection with or relating to this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Laws of the State of Ohio, without giving effect to the conflicts of laws principles thereof.
Governing Law
     SECTION 14.11. .
Disputes
     (a) Except with respect to injunctive relief described below, any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or the breach thereof, shall attempt to be settled first, by good faith efforts of the Parties to reach mutual agreement, and second, if mutual agreement is not reached to resolve the dispute, by final, binding arbitration as set out below.
     (b) A Party that wishes to initiate the dispute resolution process shall send written notice to the other Party, in accordance with Section 14.11, with a summary of the controversy and a request to initiate these dispute resolution procedures. Each Party shall appoint a knowledgeable, responsible representative who has the authority to settle the dispute, to meet and to negotiate in good faith to resolve the dispute. The discussions shall be left to the discretion of the representatives who may utilize other alternative dispute resolution procedures such as mediation to assist in the negotiations. Discussions and correspondence among the representatives for purposes of these negotiations (i) shall be treated as Information subject to the provisions of Section 7.08 of the Separation Agreement developed for purposes of settlement, (ii) shall be exempt from discovery and production and (iii) shall not be admissible in the arbitration described below or in any lawsuit pursuant to Rule 408 of the Federal Rules of Evidence. Documents identified in or provided with such communications that are not prepared for purposes of the negotiations are not so exempted and may, if otherwise admissible, be admitted in evidence in the arbitration or lawsuit. The Parties agree to pursue resolution under this subsection for a minimum of 30 calendar days before requesting arbitration.
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
     (c) If the dispute is not resolved under the preceding subsection within 30 calendar days of the initial written notice, either Party may demand arbitration by sending written notice to the other Party. The Parties shall promptly submit the dispute to the American Arbitration Association for resolution by a single neutral arbitrator acceptable to both Parties, as selected under the rules of the American Arbitration Association. The dispute shall then be administered according to the American Arbitration Association's Commercial Arbitration Rules, with the following modifications: (i) the arbitration shall be held in a location mutually acceptable to the Parties, and, if the Parties do not agree, the location shall be Cincinnati, Ohio; (ii) the arbitrator shall be licensed to practice law; (iii) the arbitrator shall conduct the arbitration as if it were a bench trial and shall use, apply and enforce the Federal Rules of Evidence and Federal Rules of Civil Procedure; (iv) except for breaches related to Information subject to Section 7.08 of the Separation Agreement, the arbitrator shall have no power or authority to make any award that provides for consequential, punitive or exemplary damages or extend the term hereof; (v) the arbitrator shall control the scheduling so that the hearing is completed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the demand for arbitration; and (vi) the arbitrator's decision shall be given within five calendar days thereafter in summary form that states the award, without written decision, which decision shall follow the plain meaning of this Agreement, and in the event of any ambiguity, the intent of the Parties. Judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having jurisdiction over the Parties. Each Party to the dispute shall bear its own expenses arising out of the arbitration, except that the Parties shall share the expenses of the facilities to conduct the arbitration and the fees of the arbitrator equally.
     (d) The foregoing notwithstanding, each Party shall have the right to seek injunctive relief in an applicable court of law or equity to preserve the status quo pending resolution of the dispute and enforce any decision relating to the resolution of the dispute.
     (e) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the dispute resolution provisions set forth in this Section 14.11 shall not be applicable to any disagreement between the Parties relating to Distribution Taxes and any such dispute shall be settled in a court of law or as otherwise agreed to by the Parties.
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have entered into this Agreement as of the date first above written.
SOLICITORS, 095070, 000093, 102408079.1, Tax Allocation Agreement (Conformed Signatures)

EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
 
          FIVE-YEAR COMPETITIVE ADVANCE AND REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY AGREEMENT dated as of June 30, 2008 (this "Agreement"), among SCRIPPS NETWORKS INTERACTIVE, INC., an Ohio corporation (the "Borrower"), JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., a New York banking corporation, as Administrative Agent for the Banks (in such capacity, the "Agent"), WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION ("Wachovia") and the other banks listed in Schedule 2.01 (the "Banks").
          The Borrower has requested the Banks to extend credit to the Borrower in order to enable it to borrow and have letters of credit issued for its account on a standby revolving credit basis on and after the date hereof and at any time and from time to time prior to the Maturity Date (as herein defined) a principal amount not in excess of $550,000,000 at any time outstanding. The Borrower has also requested the Banks to provide a procedure pursuant to which the Borrower may invite the Banks to bid on an uncommitted basis on short-term borrowings by the Borrower. The proceeds of such borrowings are to be used (a) to pay a cash dividend to The E.W. Scripps Company ("Scripps") in an amount estimated not to exceed $375,000,000 in connection with the Spin-off (as herein defined) and (b) for general corporate purposes. The Banks are willing to extend such credit to the Borrower on the terms and subject to the conditions herein set forth.    
          Accordingly, the Borrower, the Banks and the Agent agree as follows:
          Section 1.01. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms
          "ABR Borrowing" shall mean a Borrowing comprised of ABR Loans.
          "ABR Loan" shall mean any Standby Loan bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate in accordance with the provisions of Article II.
          "Additional Bank" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.13(c).
          "Additional Bank Supplement" shall mean a supplement substantially in the form of Exhibit D.
          "Administrative Agent Fee Letter" shall mean the letter agreement dated April 17, 2008, between the Borrower and the Agent, providing for the payment of certain fees or other amounts in connection with the credit facilities established by this Agreement.
          "Administrative Fees" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.06(c).
          "Administrative Questionnaire" shall mean an Administrative Questionnaire in the form of Exhibit E hereto.
 
          "Affiliate" shall mean, when used with respect to a specified person, another person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the person specified.
          "Alternate Base Rate" shall mean, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greater of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day and (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus / of 1%. For purposes hereof, "Prime Rate" shall mean the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by the Agent as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City; each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective on the date such change is publicly announced as effective. "Federal Funds Effective Rate" shall mean, for any day, the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day which is a Business Day, the average, as determined by the Agent, of the quotations for the day of such transactions received by the Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it. If for any reason the Agent shall have determined (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that it is unable to ascertain the Federal Funds Effective Rate for any reason, including the inability or failure of the Agent to obtain sufficient quotations in accordance with the terms thereof, the Alternate Base Rate shall be determined without regard to clause (b), of the first sentence of this definition, until the circumstances giving rise to such inability no longer exist. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective on the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively.
1
2
          "Applicable Percentage" shall mean on any date, with respect to the Facility Fee, the Utilization Fee or the Loans comprising any Eurodollar Standby Borrowing, the applicable percentage set forth below based upon the ratings applicable on such date to the Borrower's implied or actual senior, unsecured, non-credit-enhanced long-term indebtedness for borrowed money (the "Index Debt"):
 
          For purposes of the foregoing, (a) if no rating for the Index Debt shall be available from either Moody's or S&P (other than by reason of the circumstances referred to in the last sentence of this definition), each such rating agency shall be deemed to have established a rating in the numerically highest category; (b) if only one of Moody's and S&P shall have in effect a rating for the Index Debt, the Applicable Percentage shall be determined by reference to the available rating; (c) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's and S&P shall fall within different categories, the Applicable Percentage shall be based upon the superior (or numerically lower) category unless the ratings differ by more than one category, in which case the governing rating shall be the rating next below the higher of the two; and (d) if any rating established or deemed to have been established by Moody's or S&P shall be changed (other than as a result of a change in the rating system of either Moody's or S&P), such change shall be effective as of the date on which such change is first announced publicly by the rating agency making such change. Any change in the LIBOR spread due to a change in the applicable category shall be effective on the effective date of such change in the applicable category and shall apply to all Eurodollar Standby Loans that are outstanding at any time during the period commencing on the effective date of such change in the applicable category and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change in the applicable category. If the rating system of either Moody's or S&P shall change, the Borrower and the Banks shall negotiate in good faith to amend the references to specific ratings in this definition to reflect such changed rating system. If either Moody's or S&P shall cease to be in the business of rating corporate debt obligations, the Borrower and the Banks shall negotiate in good faith to agree upon a substitute rating agency and to amend the references to specific ratings in this definition to reflect the ratings used by such substitute rating agency and, pending such agreement, the Applicable Percentage shall be determined on the basis of the ratings provided by the other rating agency.
          "Application" shall mean an application, in such form as any Issuing Bank may specify from time to time, requesting such Issuing Bank to open a Letter of Credit.
          "Arranger Fees" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.06(b).
 
          "Assignment and Acceptance" shall mean an assignment and acceptance entered into by a Bank and an assignee, and accepted by the Agent, in the form of Exhibit F.
          "Bank Percentage" shall mean as to any Bank at any time the percentage which such Bank's Commitments then constitutes of the Total Commitments (or, at any time after the Commitments have expired or terminated, the percentage which the aggregate principal amount of such Bank's Loans plus such Bank's share of the L/C Obligations then outstanding constitutes of the aggregate principal amount of the Loans and the L/C Obligations then outstanding).
          "Board" shall mean the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
          "Borrowing" shall mean a group of Loans of a single Type made by the Banks (or, in the case of a Competitive Borrowing, by the Bank or Banks whose Competitive Bids have been accepted pursuant to Section 2.03) on a single date and as to which a single Interest Period is in effect.
          "Business Day" shall mean any day (other than a day which is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in the State of New York) on which banks are open for business in New York City; , , that, when used in connection with a Eurodollar Loan, the term "Business Day" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in dollar deposits in the London interbank market.
provided
however
          "Capital Lease Obligations" of any person shall mean the obligations of such person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such person under GAAP and, for the purposes of this Agreement, the amount of such obligations at any time shall be the capitalized amount thereof at such time determined in accordance with GAAP.
          A "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if the Trust or the beneficiaries thereof shall not be the direct or indirect owner, beneficially and of record, of at least 51% of the issued and outstanding Common Voting Shares, $.01 par value per share, of the Borrower and any other common stock at any time issued by the Borrower, other than the Borrower's Class A Common Shares, $.01 per share.
          "Closing Date" shall mean June 30, 2008.
          "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as the same may be amended from time to time.
          "Commitment" shall mean, with respect to each Bank, the commitment of such Bank hereunder as set forth in Schedule 2.01 hereto, as such Bank's Commitment may be permanently terminated or reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.11. The Commitments shall automatically and permanently terminate on the Maturity Date.
 
          "Commitment Increase Notice" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.13(a).
          "Commitment Increase Supplement" shall mean a supplement substantially in the form of Exhibit C.
          "Competitive Bid" shall mean an offer by a Bank to make a Competitive Loan pursuant to Section 2.03.
          "Competitive Bid Accept/Reject Letter" shall mean a notification made by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.03(d) in the form of Exhibit A-4.
          "Competitive Bid Rate" shall mean, as to any Competitive Bid made by a Bank pursuant to Section 2.03(b), (i) in the case of a Eurodollar Loan, the Margin, and (ii) in the case of a Fixed Rate Loan, the fixed rate of interest offered by the Bank making such Competitive Bid.
          "Competitive Bid Request" shall mean a request made pursuant to Section 2.03 in the form of Exhibit A-1.
          "Competitive Borrowing" shall mean a borrowing consisting of a Competitive Loan or concurrent Competitive Loans from the Bank or Banks whose Competitive Bids for such Borrowing have been accepted by the Borrower under the bidding procedure described in Section 2.03.
          "Competitive Loan" shall mean a Loan from a Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the bidding procedure described in Section 2.03. Each Competitive Loan shall be a Eurodollar Competitive Loan or a Fixed Rate Loan.
          "Consolidated EBITDA" shall mean with respect to any person for any period, (a) Consolidated Net Income for such period, plus (b) provisions for taxes based on income during such period, plus (c) Consolidated Interest Expense for such period, plus (d) total depreciation expense for such period, plus (e) total amortization expense for such period, plus (f) unusual and non-recurring non-cash charges recorded during such period, plus (g) non-cash compensation expenses arising from the issuance of stock, options to purchase stock and stock appreciation rights to the officers, directors and employees of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, minus (h) cash expenditures during such period that are applied against unusual or non-recurring non-cash charges referred to in clause (f) whether such charges were recorded during such period or any prior period, all of the foregoing as determined on a consolidated basis for such person and its consolidated subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP; provided that there shall be excluded from such calculation the net gains or losses associated with the sale of any asset not in the ordinary course of business.
          "Consolidated Indebtedness" with respect to any person shall mean the aggregate Indebtedness of such person and its consolidated subsidiaries, consolidated in accordance with GAAP.
 
          "Consolidated Interest Expense" with respect to any person shall mean for any period the aggregate interest expense of such person and its consolidated subsidiaries for such period, computed and consolidated in accordance with GAAP.
          "Consolidated Net Income" with respect to any person shall mean for any period the aggregate net income (or net deficit) of such person and its consolidated subsidiaries for such period equal to gross revenues and other proper income less the aggregate for such person and its consolidated subsidiaries of (i) operating expenses, (ii) selling, administrative and general expenses, (iii) taxes, (iv) depreciation, depletion and amortization of properties and (v) any other items that are treated as expenses under GAAP but excluding from the definition of Consolidated Net Income any extraordinary gains or losses, all computed and consolidated in accordance with GAAP.
          "Consolidated Stockholders' Equity" with respect to any person shall mean the aggregate Stockholders' Equity of such person and its consolidated subsidiaries, consolidated in accordance with GAAP.
          "Continuing Banks" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.12(b).
          "Control" shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise, and "Controlling" and "Controlled" shall have meanings correlative thereto.
          "Current Maturity Date" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.12(a).
          "Default" shall mean any event or condition which upon notice, lapse of time or both would constitute an Event of Default.
          "dollars" or "$" shall mean lawful money of the United States of America.
          "ERISA" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as the same may be amended from time to time.
          "ERISA Affiliate" shall mean any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that is a member of a group of which the Borrower is a member and which is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
          "ERISA Event" shall mean (a) any Reportable Event; (b) the existence with respect to any Plan of a Prohibited Transaction; (c) any failure by any Pension Plan to satisfy the minimum funding standards (within the meaning of Sections 412 and 430 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA) applicable to such Pension Plan; (d) the filing pursuant to Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Pension Plan; (e) the failure to make by its due date a required installment under Code Section 430(j)(3)(A) or Section 303(j)(3)(A) of ERISA, with respect to any Pension Plan or the failure by Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates to make any required contribution
 
to a Multiemployer Plan; (f) the incurrence by Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to the termination of any Pension Plan, including but not limited to the imposition of any Lien in favor of the PBGC or any Pension Plan; (g) a determination that any Pension Plan is, or is expected to be, in "at risk" status (within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA); (h) the receipt by Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates from the PBGC or a plan administrator of any notice relating to an intention to terminate any Pension Plan or to appoint a trustee to administer any Pension Plan under Section 4042 of ERISA; (i) the incurrence by Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability with respect to the withdrawal or partial withdrawal from any Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (j) the receipt by Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any notice, or the receipt by any Multiemployer Plan from Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, concerning the imposition of Withdrawal Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan is, or is expected to be, Insolvent, in reorganization or in endangered or critical status, within the meaning of Section 432 of the Code or Section 305 or Title IV of ERISA.
          "Eurodollar Borrowing" shall mean a Borrowing comprised of Eurodollar Loans.
          "Eurodollar Competitive Loan" shall mean any Competitive Loan bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the LIBO Rate in accordance with the provisions of Article II.
          "Eurodollar Loan" shall mean any Eurodollar Competitive Loan or Eurodollar Standby Loan.
          "Eurodollar Standby Borrowing" shall mean a Borrowing comprised of Eurodollar Standby Loans.
          "Eurodollar Standby Loan" shall mean any Standby Loan bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the LIBO Rate in accordance with the provisions of Article II.
          "Event of Default" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Article VIII.
          "Extension Bank" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.12(c).
          "Extension Date" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.12(b).
          "Extension Letter" shall mean a letter substantially in the form of Exhibit B.
          "Extensions of Credit" shall mean as to any Bank at any time, an amount equal to the sum of (a) the aggregate principal amount of all (a) Loans of such Bank then outstanding and (b) such Bank's share of the L/C Obligations then outstanding.
          "Facility Fee" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.06(a).
          "Fee Letter" shall mean the letter agreement dated April 17, 2008, between the Borrower, the Agent, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC and
 
Wachovia, providing for the payment of certain fees or other amounts in connection with the credit facilities established by this Agreement.
          "Fees" shall mean the Facility Fee, the Arranger Fees and the Administrative Fees.
          "Final Election Date" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.12(a).
          "Financial Officer" of any corporation shall mean the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer or Controller of such corporation.
          "Fixed Rate Borrowing" shall mean a Borrowing comprised of Fixed Rate Loans.
          "Fixed Rate Loan" shall mean any Competitive Loan bearing interest at a fixed percentage rate per annum (the "Fixed Rate") (expressed in the form of a decimal to no more than four decimal places) specified by the Bank making such Loan in its Competitive Bid.
          "GAAP" shall mean generally accepted accounting principles, applied on a consistent basis.
          "Governmental Authority" shall mean any Federal, state, local or foreign court or governmental agency, authority, instrumentality or regulatory body.
          "Guarantee" of or by any person shall mean any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such person guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness of any other person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of such person, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment of such Indebtedness, (b) to purchase property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness of the payment of such Indebtedness or (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness; , , that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit, in either case in the ordinary course of business.
provided
however
          "Indebtedness" of any person shall mean, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such person for borrowed money or with respect to deposits or advances of any kind, (b) all obligations of such person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property or assets purchased by such person, (d) all obligations of such person issued or assumed as the deferred purchase price of property or services, (e) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property owned or acquired by such person, whether or not the obligations secured thereby have been assumed, (f) all Guarantees by such person of Indebtedness of others, (g) all Capital Lease Obligations of such person, (h) all obligations of such person in respect of interest rate protection agreements, foreign currency exchange
 
agreements or other interest or exchange rate hedging arrangements, in such amount which exceeds $15,000,000 at any time and (i) all obligations of such person as an account party in respect of letters of credit and bankers' acceptances; that the definition of Indebtedness shall not include (i) accounts payable to suppliers and (ii) programming rights, in each case incurred in the ordinary course of business and not overdue. The Indebtedness of any person shall include the recourse Indebtedness of any partnership in which such person is a general partner. For purposes of this Agreement, the amount of any Indebtedness referred to in clause (h) of the preceding sentence shall be amounts, including any termination payments, required to be paid to a counterparty after giving effect to any contractual netting arrangements, and not any notional amount with regard to which payments may be calculated.
provided
          "Insolvent" with respect to any Multiemployer Plan means the condition that such Plan is insolvent within the meaning of Section 4245 of ERISA.
          "Interest Payment Date" shall mean, with respect to any Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto and, in the case of a Eurodollar Loan with an Interest Period of more than three months' duration or a Fixed Rate Loan with an Interest Period of more than 90 days' duration, each day that would have been an Interest Payment Date for such Loan had successive Interest Periods of three months' duration or 90 days' duration, as the case may be, been applicable to such Loan and, in addition, the date of any refinancing or conversion of such Loan with or to a Loan of a different Type.
          "Interest Period" shall mean (a) as to any Eurodollar Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing or on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period applicable to such Borrowing, as the case may be, and ending on the numerically corresponding day (or, if there is no numerically corresponding day, on the last day) in the calendar month that is 1, 2, 3 or 6 months (or, if agreed to by all Banks, 9 or 12 months) thereafter, as the Borrower may elect, (b) as to any ABR Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the date 90 days thereafter or, if earlier, on the Maturity Date or the date of prepayment of such Borrowing and (c) as to any Fixed Rate Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the date specified in the Competitive Bids in which the offer to make the Fixed Rate Loans comprising such Borrowing were extended, which shall not be earlier than seven days after the date of such Borrowing or later than 360 days after the date of such Borrowing; , , that if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless, in the case of Eurodollar Loans only, such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day. Interest shall accrue from and including the first day of an Interest Period to but excluding the last day of such Interest Period.
provided
however
          "Issuing Bank" shall mean any Bank acceptable to the Agent and to the Borrower, in its capacity as issuer of any Letter of Credit.
          "L/C Obligations" shall mean at any time, an amount equal to the sum of (a) the aggregate then undrawn and unexpired amount of the then outstanding Letters of Credit and (b) the aggregate amount of drawings under Letters of Credit that have not then been reimbursed pursuant to Section 3.05.
 
          "L/C Participants" shall mean the collective reference to all the Banks other than the Issuing Bank.
          "Letters of Credit" shall have the meaning assigned in Section 3.01(a).
          "LIBO Rate" shall mean, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, the rate appearing on the Reuters "LIBOR01" screen displaying the British Bankers Assoc. Interest Settlement Rates (or on any successor or substitute page of such service, or any successor to or substitute for such service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of such service, as reasonably determined by the Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to dollar deposits in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "" with respect to such Eurodollar Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which dollar deposits of $5,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Agent in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
LIBO Rate
          "Lien" shall mean, with respect to any asset, (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, encumbrance, charge or security interest in or on such asset or (b) the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement relating to such asset.
          "Loan" shall mean a Competitive Loan or a Standby Loan, whether made as a Eurodollar Loan, an ABR Loan or a Fixed Rate Loan, as permitted hereby.
          "Loan Documents" shall mean this Agreement, the Fee Letter and the Administrative Agent Fee Letter.
          "Margin" shall mean, as to any Eurodollar Competitive Loan, the margin (expressed as a percentage rate per annum in the form of a decimal to no more than four decimal places) to be added to or subtracted from the LIBO Rate in order to determine the interest rate applicable to such Loan, as specified in the Competitive Bid relating to such Loan.
          "Margin Stock" shall have the meaning given such term under Regulation U.
          "Material Adverse Effect" shall mean (a) a materially adverse effect on the business, assets, operations, or condition, financial or otherwise, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) material impairment of the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under any Loan Document or (c) material impairment of the rights of or benefits expressly available to the Banks under any Loan Document.
          "Maturity Date" shall mean June 30, 2013, as such date may be extended from time to time with respect to some or all of the Banks pursuant to Section 2.12.
 
          "Multiemployer Plan" shall mean a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
          "Non-Extending Bank" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.12(a).
          "Participant" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.04.
          "PBGC" shall mean the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions.
          "Pension Plan" shall mean any Plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Sections 412 and 430 of the Code or Section 303 or 304 of ERISA.
          "person" shall mean any natural person, corporation, business trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership or government, or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
          "Plan" shall mean any employee benefit plan as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA, including any employee welfare benefit plan (as defined in Section 3(1) of ERISA), any employee pension benefit plan (as defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), and any plan which is both an employee welfare benefit plan and an employee pension benefit plan, and in respect of which Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such Plan were terminated, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA.
          "Prohibited Transaction" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 406 of ERISA and Code Section (4975(c), but shall exclude any "exempt" Prohibited Transaction.
          "Proposed Increase Amount" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.13(a).
          "Rate" shall include the LIBO Rate, the Alternate Base Rate and the Fixed Rate.
          "Register" shall have the meaning given such term in Section 10.04(b)(iv).
          "Regulation D" shall mean Regulation D of the Board as from time to time in effect and all official rulings and interpretations thereunder or thereof.
          "Regulation T" shall mean Regulation T of the Board as from time to time in effect and all official rulings and interpretations thereunder or thereof.
          "Regulation U" shall mean Regulation U of the Board as from time to time in effect and all official rulings and interpretations thereunder or thereof.
          "Regulation X" shall mean Regulation X of the Board as from time to time in effect and all official rulings and interpretations thereunder or thereof.
 
          "Reimbursement Obligation" shall mean the obligation of the Borrower to reimburse any Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 3.05 for amounts drawn under Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank.
          "Related Parties" shall mean, with respect to any specified person, such person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such person and such person's Affiliates.
          "Reportable Event" shall mean any "reportable event," as defined in Section 4043(b) of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder, other than those events as to which the 30-day notice period referred to in Section 4043(c) of ERISA has been waived, with respect to a Pension Plan (other than a Pension Plan maintained by an ERISA Affiliate that is considered an ERISA Affiliate only pursuant to subsection (m) or (o) of Code Section 414).
          "Required Banks" shall mean, at any time, Banks having Bank Percentages aggregating more than 50%.
          "Responsible Officer" of any corporation shall mean any executive officer or Financial Officer of such corporation and any other officer or similar official thereof responsible for the administration of the obligations of such corporation in respect of this Agreement.
          "Spin-off" shall mean the distribution to the shareholders of Scripps of all of the common stock of the Borrower and the transactions related thereto.  
          "Standby Borrowing" shall mean a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Standby Loans from each of the Banks.
          "Standby Borrowing Request" shall mean a request made pursuant to Section 2.04 in the form of Exhibit A-5.
          "Standby Loans" shall mean the revolving loans made by the Banks to the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.04. Each Standby Loan shall be a Eurodollar Standby Loan or an ABR Loan.
          "Statutory Reserves" shall mean a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentages (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Board and any other banking authority to which the Agent is subject for new negotiable nonpersonal time deposits in dollars of over $100,000 with maturities approximately equal to the applicable Interest Period. Statutory Reserves shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage.
          "Stockholders' Equity" shall mean, for any corporation, the consolidated total stockholders' equity of such corporation determined in accordance with GAAP, consistently applied.
 
          "subsidiary" shall mean, with respect to any person (herein referred to as the "parent"), any corporation, partnership, association or other business entity (a) of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, at the time any determination is being made, owned, controlled or held, or (b) which is, at the time any determination is made, otherwise Controlled by the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent or by the parent and one or more subsidiaries of the parent.
          "Subsidiary" shall mean any subsidiary of the Borrower.
          "Total Commitment" shall mean at any time the aggregate amount of the Banks' Commitments, as in effect at such time.
          "Total Extensions of Credit" shall mean at any time the aggregate amount of the Banks' Extensions of Credit outstanding at such time.
          "Transactions" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 4.02.
          "Trust" shall mean The Edward W. Scripps Trust, being that certain trust for the benefit of descendants of Edward W. Scripps and owning shares of capital stock of the Borrower.
          "Type", when used in respect of any Loan or Borrowing, shall refer to the Rate by reference to which interest on such Loan or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing is determined.
          "Utilization Fee" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.06(d).
          "Withdrawal Liability" shall mean liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Title IV of ERISA.
          Section 1.02. . The definitions in Section 1.01 shall apply equally to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". All references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be deemed references to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement unless the context shall otherwise require. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; provided, however, that, for purposes of determining compliance with any covenant set forth in Article VII, such terms shall be construed in accordance with GAAP as in effect on the date of this Agreement applied on a basis consistent with the application used in preparing the Borrower's audited financial statements referred to in Section 4.05.
Terms Generally
 
          Section 2.01. . Subject to the terms and conditions and relying upon the representations and warranties herein set forth, each Bank agrees, severally and not jointly, to make Standby Loans to the Borrower, at any time and from time to time on and after the date hereof and until the earlier of the Maturity Date and the termination of the Commitment of such Bank as provided in this Agreement, in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding not to exceed such Bank's Commitment, minus such Bank's share of the L/C Obligations then outstanding, minus the amount by which the Competitive Loans outstanding at such time shall be deemed to have used such Commitment pursuant to Section 2.18, subject, however, to the conditions that at no time shall (i) the sum of (x) the outstanding aggregate principal amount of all Standby Loans made by all Banks plus (y) the outstanding L/C Obligations plus (z) the outstanding aggregate principal amount of all Competitive Loans made by all Banks exceed (ii) the Total Commitment. Each Bank's Commitment is set forth opposite its respective name in Schedule 2.01. Such Commitments may be terminated or reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.11.
Commitments
          Within the foregoing limits, the Borrower may borrow, pay or repay and reborrow hereunder, on and after the Closing Date and prior to the Maturity Date, subject to the terms, conditions and limitations set forth herein.
          Section 2.02. . (a) Each Standby Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Loans made by the Banks ratably in accordance with their Commitments; provided, however, that the failure of any Bank to make any Standby Loan shall not in itself relieve any other Bank of its obligation to lend hereunder (it being understood, however, that no Bank shall be responsible for the failure of any other Bank to make any Loan required to be made by such other Bank). Each Competitive Loan shall be made in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.03. The Standby Loans or Competitive Loans comprising any Borrowing shall be (i) in the case of Competitive Loans, in an aggregate principal amount which is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000 and (ii) in the case of Standby Loans, in an aggregate principal amount which is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000 in the case of Eurodollar Standby Loans and $5,000,000 in the case of ABR Loans (or an aggregate principal amount equal to the remaining balance of the available Commitments).
Loans
          (b) Each Competitive Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of Eurodollar Competitive Loans or Fixed Rate Loans, and each Standby Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of Eurodollar Standby Loans or ABR Loans, as the Borrower may request pursuant to Section 2.03 or 2.04, as applicable. Each Bank may at its option make any Eurodollar Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Bank to make such Loan; that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Borrowings of more than one Type may be outstanding at the same time; , , that the Borrower shall not be entitled to request any Borrowing which, if made, would result in an aggregate of more than five separate Standby Loans of any Bank being outstanding hereunder at any one time. For purposes of the
provided
provided
however
 
foregoing, Loans having different Interest Periods, regardless of whether they commence on the same date, shall be considered separate Loans.
          (c) Subject to Section 2.05, each Bank shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the Agent in New York, New York, not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, and the Agent shall by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, wire transfer the amounts so received to the general deposit account of the Borrower at Wachovia Bank, National Association (or other general deposit account designated by the Borrower in writing) or, if a Borrowing shall not occur on such date because any condition precedent herein specified shall not have been met, return the amounts so received to the respective Banks. Competitive Loans shall be made by the Bank or Banks whose Competitive Bids therefor are accepted pursuant to Section 2.03 in the amounts so accepted and Standby Loans shall be made by the Banks pro rata in accordance with Section 2.18. Unless the Agent shall have received notice from a Bank prior to the date of any Borrowing that such Bank will not make available to the Agent such Bank's portion of such Borrowing, the Agent may assume that such Bank has made such portion available to the Agent on the date of such Borrowing in accordance with this paragraph (c) and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower on such date a corresponding amount. If and to the extent that such Bank shall not have made such portion available to the Agent, such Bank and the Borrower severally agree (without duplication) to repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to the Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Agent at (i) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate applicable at the time to the Loans comprising such Borrowing and (ii) in the case of such Bank, the Federal Funds Effective Rate. If such Bank shall repay to the Agent such corresponding amount, such amount shall constitute such Bank's Loan as part of such Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement.
          (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Borrower shall not be entitled to request any Borrowing if the Interest Period requested with respect thereto would end after the Maturity Date.
          Section 2.03. . (a) In order to request Competitive Bids, the Borrower shall hand deliver or telecopy to the Agent a duly completed Competitive Bid Request in the form of Exhibit A-1 hereto, to be received by the Agent (i) in the case of a Eurodollar Competitive Borrowing, not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, four Business Days before a proposed Competitive Borrowing and (ii) in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing, not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, one Business Day before a proposed Competitive Borrowing. No ABR Loan shall be requested in, or made pursuant to, a Competitive Bid Request. A Competitive Bid Request that does not conform substantially to the format of Exhibit A-1 may be rejected in the Agent's sole discretion, and the Agent shall as soon as practicable notify the Borrower of such rejection by telecopier. Such request shall in each case refer to this Agreement and specify (x) whether the Borrowing then being requested is to be a Eurodollar Borrowing or a Fixed Rate Borrowing, (y) the date of such Borrowing (which shall be a Business Day) and the aggregate principal amount thereof which shall be in a minimum principal amount of $5,000,000 and in an integral multiple of $1,000,000, and (z) the Interest Period with respect thereto (which may not end after the Maturity Date). As soon as practicable after its receipt of a Competitive Bid Request that is not rejected as aforesaid, the Agent shall
Competitive Bid Procedure
 
invite by telecopier (in the form set forth in Exhibit A-2 hereto) the Banks to bid, on the terms and conditions of this Agreement, to make Competitive Loans pursuant to the Competitive Bid Request.
          (b) Each Bank may, in its sole discretion, make one or more Competitive Bids to the Borrower responsive to a Competitive Bid Request. Each Competitive Bid by a Bank must be received by the Agent via telecopier, in the form of Exhibit A-3 hereto, (i) in the case of a Eurodollar Competitive Borrowing, not later than 9:30 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before a proposed Competitive Borrowing and (ii) in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing, not later than 9:30 a.m., New York City time, on the day of a proposed Competitive Borrowing. Multiple bids will be accepted by the Agent. Competitive Bids that do not conform substantially to the format of Exhibit A-3 may be rejected by the Agent after conferring with, and upon the instruction of, the Borrower, such conference between the Agent and the Borrower to occur as soon as practicable following the receipt by the Agent of such Competitive Bid, and the Agent shall notify the Bank making such nonconforming bid of such rejection as soon as practicable. Each Competitive Bid shall refer to this Agreement and specify (x) the principal amount (which shall be in a minimum principal amount of $5,000,000 and in an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and which may equal the entire principal amount of the Competitive Borrowing requested by the Borrower) of the Competitive Loan or Loans that the Bank is willing to make to the Borrower, (y) the Competitive Bid Rate or Rates at which the Bank is prepared to make the Competitive Loan or Loans and (z) the Interest Period and the last day thereof. If any Bank shall elect not to make a Competitive Bid, such Bank shall so notify the Agent via telecopier (I) in the case of Eurodollar Competitive Loans, not later than 9:30 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before a proposed Competitive Borrowing, and (II) in the case of Fixed Rate Loans, not later than 9:30 a.m., New York City time, on the day of a proposed Competitive Borrowing; , , that failure by any Bank to give such notice shall not cause such Bank to be obligated to make any Competitive Loan as part of such Competitive Borrowing. A Competitive Bid submitted by a Bank pursuant to this paragraph (b) shall be irrevocable.
provided
however
          (c) The Agent shall as soon as practicable notify the Borrower by telecopier (i) in the case of Eurodollar Competitive Loans, not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before a proposed Competitive Borrowing, and (ii) in the case of Fixed Rate Loans, not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the day of a proposed Competitive Borrowing, of all the Competitive Bids made, the Competitive Bid Rate and the principal amount of each Competitive Loan in respect of which a Competitive Bid was made and the identity of the Bank that made each bid. The Agent shall send a copy of all Competitive Bids to the Borrower for its records as soon as practicable after completion of the bidding process set forth in this Section 2.03.
          (d) The Borrower may in its sole and absolute discretion, subject only to the provisions of this paragraph (d), accept or reject any Competitive Bid referred to in paragraph (c) above. The Borrower shall notify the Agent by telephone, confirmed by telecopier in the form of a Competitive Bid Accept/Reject Letter in the form of Exhibit A-4, whether and to what extent it has decided to accept or reject any of or all the bids referred to in paragraph (c) above, (x) in the case of a Eurodollar Competitive Borrowing, not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before a proposed Competitive Borrowing, and (y) in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing, not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the day of a proposed
 
Competitive Borrowing; , , that (i) the failure by the Borrower to give such notice shall be deemed to be a rejection of all the bids referred to in paragraph (c) above, (ii) the Borrower shall not accept a bid made at a particular Competitive Bid Rate if the Borrower has decided to reject an unrestricted bid made at a lower Competitive Bid Rate, (iii) the aggregate amount of the Competitive Bids accepted by the Borrower shall not exceed the principal amount specified in the Competitive Bid Request, (iv) if the Borrower shall accept a bid or bids made at a particular Competitive Bid Rate but the amount of such bid or bids shall cause the total amount of bids to be accepted by the Borrower to exceed the amount specified in the Competitive Bid Request, then the Borrower shall accept a portion of such bid or bids in an amount equal to the amount specified in the Competitive Bid Request less the amount of all other Competitive Bids accepted with respect to such Competitive Bid Request, which acceptance, in the case of multiple bids at such Competitive Bid Rate, shall be made pro rata in accordance with the amount of each such bid at such Competitive Bid Rate, and (v) except pursuant to clause (iv) above, no bid shall be accepted for a Competitive Loan unless such Competitive Loan is in a minimum principal amount of $5,000,000 and an integral multiple of $1,000,000; , , , that if a Competitive Loan must be in an amount less than $5,000,000 because of the provisions of clause (iv) above, such Competitive Loan may be for a minimum of $1,000,000 or any integral multiple thereof, and in calculating the pro rata allocation of acceptances of portions of multiple bids at a particular Competitive Bid Rate pursuant to clause (iv) the amounts shall be rounded to integral multiples of $1,000,000 in a manner which shall be in the discretion of the Borrower. A notice given by the Borrower pursuant to this paragraph (d) shall be irrevocable.
provided
however
provided
further
however
          (e) The Agent shall promptly notify each bidding Bank (i) in the case of Eurodollar Competitive Loans, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before a proposed Competitive Borrowing, and (ii) in the case of Fixed Rate Loans, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the day of a proposed Competitive Borrowing, whether or not its Competitive Bid has been accepted (and if so, in what amount and at what Competitive Bid Rate) by telecopy sent by the Agent, and each successful bidder will thereupon become bound, subject to the other applicable conditions hereof, to make the Competitive Loan in respect of which its bid has been accepted.
          (f) A Competitive Bid Request shall not be made within five Business Days after the date of any previous Competitive Bid Request.
          (g) If the Agent shall elect to submit a Competitive Bid in its capacity as a Bank, it shall submit such bid directly to the Borrower one quarter of an hour earlier than the latest time at which the other Banks are required to submit their bids to the Agent pursuant to paragraph (b) above.
          (h) All Notices required by this Section 2.03 shall be given in accordance with Section 10.01.
          Section 2.04. . In order to request a Standby Borrowing, the Borrower shall hand deliver or telecopy to the Agent in the form of Exhibit A-5 (a) in the case of a Eurodollar Standby Borrowing, not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before a proposed borrowing and (b) in the case of an ABR
Standby Borrowing Procedure
 
Borrowing, not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the day of a proposed borrowing. No Fixed Rate Loan shall be requested or made pursuant to a Standby Borrowing Request. Such notice shall be irrevocable and shall in each case specify (i) whether the Borrowing then being requested is to be a Eurodollar Standby Borrowing or an ABR Borrowing; (ii) the date of such Standby Borrowing (which shall be a Business Day) and the amount thereof; and (iii) if such Borrowing is to be a Eurodollar Standby Borrowing, the Interest Period with respect thereto. If no election as to the Type of Standby Borrowing is specified in any such notice, then the requested Standby Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing. If no Interest Period with respect to any Eurodollar Standby Borrowing is specified in such notice, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. If the Borrower shall not have given notice in accordance with this Section 2.04 of its election to refinance a Standby Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing, then the Borrower shall (unless such Borrowing is repaid at the end of such Interest Period) be deemed to have given notice of an election to refinance such Borrowing with an ABR Borrowing. The Agent shall promptly advise the Banks of any notice given pursuant to this Section 2.04 and of each Bank's portion of the requested Borrowing.
          Section 2.05. . The Borrower may refinance all or any part of any Borrowing with a Borrowing of the same or a different Type made pursuant to Section 2.03 or Section 2.04, subject to the conditions and limitations set forth herein and elsewhere in this Agreement, including refinancings of Competitive Borrowings with Standby Borrowings and Standby Borrowings with Competitive Borrowings. Any Borrowing or part thereof so refinanced shall be repaid in accordance with Section 2.07 with the proceeds of a new Borrowing hereunder and the proceeds of the new Borrowing shall be paid by the Banks to the Agent or by the Agent to the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.02(c); provided, however, that (i) if the principal amount extended by a Bank in a refinancing is greater than the principal amount extended by such Bank in the Borrowing being refinanced, then such Bank shall pay such difference to the Agent for distribution to the Banks described in (ii) below, (ii) if the principal amount extended by a Bank in the Borrowing being refinanced is greater than the principal amount being extended by such Bank in the refinancing, the Agent shall return the difference to such Bank out of amounts received pursuant to (i) above, and (iii) to the extent any Bank fails to pay the Agent amounts due from it pursuant to (i) above, any Loan or portion thereof being refinanced with such amounts shall not be deemed repaid in accordance with Section 2.07 and shall be payable by the Borrower (without prejudice to its rights against such Bank or its ability to make any additional Borrowing for such refinancing).
Refinancings
          Section 2.06. . (a) The Borrower agrees to pay to each Bank, through the Agent, on each March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 and on the date on which the Commitment of such Bank shall be terminated as provided herein, a facility fee (a "Facility Fee") at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Percentage from time to time in effect, on the amount of the Commitment of such Bank, whether used or unused, during the preceding quarter (or shorter period commencing with the date hereof or ending with the Maturity Date or any date on which the Commitment of such Bank shall be terminated as provided in this Agreement). All Facility Fees shall be computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed in a year of 360 days. The Facility Fee due to each Bank shall commence to accrue on the date hereof and shall cease to accrue on the earlier of the Maturity Date and the termination of the Commitment of such Bank as provided herein.
Fees
 
          (b) The Borrower agrees to pay to each of the Agent and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, for their own accounts, the fees (the "") at the times and in the amounts agreed upon in the Fee Letter.
Arranger Fees
          (c) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Agent, for its own account, the fees (the "") at the times and in the amounts agreed upon in the Administrative Agent Fee Letter.
Administrative Fees
          (d) The Borrower agrees to pay, in immediately available funds, to the Agent for the account of each Bank a fee (the "") based upon the average daily amount of the outstanding Standby Loans and the L/C Obligations of such Bank at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Percentage from time to time in effect, when and for as long as (except when the Commitments have terminated or expired) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Standby Loans and the L/C Obligations exceeds 50% of the aggregate Commitments as in effect at such time. The Utilization Fee shall be payable quarterly in arrears on the last day of each March, June, September and December, commencing on the first of such dates to occur after the date hereof, and on the Maturity Date (or such earlier date on which the Commitments shall terminate and the Loans and all interest, fees and other amounts in respect thereof and the L/C Obligations shall have been paid in full).
Utilization Fee
          (e) All Fees shall be paid on the date due, in immediately available funds, to the Agent for distribution, if and as appropriate, among the Banks.
          Section 2.07. . (a) The Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay (i) to the Agent for the account of each Bank the then unpaid principal amount of each Standby Loan on the Maturity Date and (ii) to the Agent for the account of each applicable Bank the then unpaid principal amount of each Competitive Loan on the last day of the Interest Period applicable to such Loan.
Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt
          (b) Each Bank shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Bank resulting from each Loan made by such Bank, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Bank from time to time hereunder.
          (c) The Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, whether such Loan is a Standby Loan or a Competitive Loan, and the Type thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Bank hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Agent hereunder for the account of the Banks and each Bank's share thereof.
          (d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; that the failure of any Bank or the Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
prima
facie
provided
 
          (e) Any Bank may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by a promissory note. In such event, the Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Bank a promissory note payable to the order of such Bank (or, if requested by such Bank, to such Bank and its registered assigns) and in a usual and customary form for such Type approved by the Agent in its reasonable discretion.
          Section 2.08. . (a) Subject to the provisions of Section 2.09, the Loans comprising each Eurodollar Borrowing shall bear interest (computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed over a year of 360 days) at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of each Eurodollar Standby Loan, the LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Applicable Percentage, and (ii) in the case of each Eurodollar Competitive Loan, the LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Margin offered by the Bank making such Loan and accepted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.03.
Interest on Loans
          (b) Subject to the provisions of Section 2.09, the Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing shall bear interest (computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed over a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, when determined by reference to the Prime Rate and over a year of 360 days at all other times) at a rate per annum equal to the Alternate Base Rate.
          (c) Subject to the provisions of Section 2.09, each Fixed Rate Loan shall bear interest at a rate per annum (computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed over a year of 360 days) equal to the fixed rate of interest offered by the Bank making such Loan and accepted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.03.
          (d) Interest on each Loan shall be payable on each Interest Payment Date applicable to such Loan. The LIBO Rate or the Alternate Base Rate for each Interest Period or day within an Interest Period shall be determined by the Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
          Section 2.09. . If the Borrower shall default in the payment of the principal of or interest on any Loan or any other amount becoming due hereunder (including any Reimbursement Obligation), whether by scheduled maturity, notice of prepayment, acceleration or otherwise, the Borrower shall on demand from time to time from the Agent pay interest, to the extent permitted by law, on such defaulted amount up to (but not including) the date of actual payment (after as well as before judgment) at a rate per annum (computed as provided in Section 2.08(b)) equal to the Alternate Base Rate plus 2%.
Default Interest
          Section 2.10. .  In the event, and on each occasion, that on the day two Business Days prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Borrowing the Agent shall have determined that dollar deposits in the principal amounts of the Eurodollar Loans comprising such Borrowing are not generally available in the London interbank market, or that the rates at which such dollar deposits are being offered will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to any Bank of making or maintaining its Eurodollar Loan during such Interest Period, or that reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the LIBO Rate, the Agent shall, as soon as practicable thereafter, give written or telecopy notice of such determination to the Borrower and the Banks. In the event of any such determination, until the Agent shall have advised the Borrower and the Banks that the circumstances giving rise to such
Alternate Rate of Interest
 
notice no longer exist, (i) any request by the Borrower for a Eurodollar Competitive Borrowing pursuant to Section 2.03 shall be of no force and effect and shall be denied by the Agent and (ii) any request by the Borrower for a Eurodollar Standby Borrowing pursuant to Section 2.04 shall be deemed to be a request for an ABR Borrowing. Each determination by the Agent hereunder shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
          Section 2.11. . (a) The Commitments shall be automatically terminated on the Maturity Date.
Termination and Reduction of Commitments
          (b) Upon at least three Business Days' prior irrevocable written or telecopy notice to the Agent, the Borrower may at any time in whole permanently terminate, or from time to time in part permanently reduce, the Total Commitment; , , that (i) each partial reduction of the Total Commitment shall be in an integral multiple of $5,000,000 and in a minimum principal amount of $5,000,000 and (ii) no such termination or reduction shall be made which would reduce the Total Commitment to an amount less than the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Loans.
provided
however
          (c) Each reduction in the Total Commitment hereunder shall be made ratably among the Banks in accordance with their respective Commitments. The Borrower shall pay to the Agent for the account of the Banks, on the date of each termination or reduction, the Facility Fees on the amount of the Commitments so terminated or reduced accrued to the date of such termination or reduction.
          Section 2.12. . (a) The Borrower may, by sending an Extension Letter in substantially the form of Exhibit B to the Agent (in which case the Agent shall promptly deliver a copy to each of the Banks), not less than 30 days and not more than 60 days prior to any anniversary of the Closing Date, request that the Banks extend the Maturity Date then in effect (the "") so that it will occur one year after the Current Maturity Date; that in no event shall there be more than two such one-year extensions. Each Bank, acting in its sole discretion, shall advise in response to such extension request, by notice to the Agent in writing given not less than 15 days and not more than 30 days prior to such anniversary of the Closing Date (the last date described in this Section 2.12(a) on which a Bank may give notice of its intention to extend the Current Maturity Date being referred to herein as the "") whether or not such Bank agrees to such extension (each Bank that so advises the Agent that it will not extend the Current Maturity Date being referred to herein as a ""); that any Bank that does not advise the Agent by the Final Election Date shall be deemed to be a Non-Extending Bank. The election of any Bank to agree to such extension shall not obligate any other Bank to agree.
Optional Extension of Commitments
Current Maturity Date
provided
Final Election Date
Non-Extending Bank
provided
          (b)  (i) In response to an extension request under subsection (a) above, if Required Banks (determined on or immediately prior to the Final Election Date) have not agreed to extend the Maturity Date, then the Current Maturity Date shall not be so extended and the outstanding principal balance of all loans and other amounts payable hereunder shall be due and payable on the Current Maturity Date.
     (ii) In response to an extension request under subsection (a) above, if (and only if) Required Banks (determined on or immediately prior to the Final Election Date)
 
have agreed to extend the Current Maturity Date, the Agent shall notify the Borrower of such agreement in writing promptly, and effective on the date of such notice by the Agent to the Borrower (the ""), the Maturity Date applicable to the Banks that have agreed to such extension (such Banks being referred to herein as "") shall be the day that is one year after the Current Maturity Date. In the event of such extension, the Commitment of each Non-Extending Bank shall terminate on the Current Maturity Date applicable to such Non-Extending Bank, all Loans and other amounts (including non-contingent L/C Obligations) payable hereunder to such Non-Extending Bank shall become due and payable on such Current Maturity Date and the Total Commitments of the Banks hereunder shall be reduced by the aggregate Commitments of Non-Extending Banks so terminated on such Current Maturity Date. Each Non-Extending Bank shall be required to maintain its original Commitments up to the Current Maturity Date. A Non-Extending Bank shall not deliver a Competitive Bid Request with respect to a Competitive Borrowing having an Interest Period ending after the Current Maturity Date.
Extension Date
Continuing Banks
          (c) In the event that the conditions of clause (ii) of paragraph (b) above have been satisfied, the Borrower shall have the right on or before or after the Extension Date (but, in any event, prior to the Current Maturity Date without giving effect to the relevant extension), at its own expense, to require any Non-Extending Bank to transfer and assign without recourse or representation (except as to title and the absence of Liens created by it) (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in 10.04) all its interests, rights and obligations under the Loan Documents (including with respect to any Letter of Credit) to one or more banks, financial institutions or other entities (which may include any Bank) (each, an ""); that (x) such Extension Bank, if not already a Bank hereunder, shall be subject to the approval of the Agent and any Issuing Bank (which consents shall not be unreasonably withheld) and (y) the Extension Bank shall pay to such Non-Extending Bank in immediately available funds on the effective date of such assignment the principal of and interest accrued to the date of payment on the Loans made by such Non-Extending Bank hereunder and all other amounts accrued for such Non-Extending Bank's account or owed to it hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no extension of the Maturity Date shall become effective unless, on the Extension Date, the conditions set forth in Section 5.01(b) and (c) shall be satisfied (with all references in such paragraphs to the making of a Loan or issuance of a Letter of Credit being deemed to be references to the extension of the Commitments on the Extension Date) and the Agent shall have received a certificate to that effect on behalf of the Borrower dated the Extension Date.
Extension Bank
provided
          (d) On the Current Maturity Date, if the Commitments of the Banks other than the Non-Extending Banks are still in effect and the conditions set forth in Sections 5.01(b) and (c) are then satisfied (as to which the Borrower shall be deemed to have made a representation and warranty as of such date, unless it has otherwise notified the Agent to the contrary) the shares of the Non-Extending Banks in any outstanding Letters of Credit shall be deemed to be extinguished and the shares therein of other Banks shall be adjusted to be in proportion to their new Bank Percentages.
          Section 2.13. . (a) In the event that the Borrower wishes to increase the Commitments at any time when no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or would exist after giving effect thereto, it shall notify the Agent in
Additional Commitments
 
writing of the amount (the "") of such proposed increase, the Banks and other Persons agreeing to participate therein and the proposed effective date thereof (such notice, a ""). The Borrower may, with the consent of the Agent and any Issuing Banks (which consents shall not be unreasonably withheld), offer one or more additional banks, financial institutions or other entities the opportunity to participate in all or a portion of the Proposed Increase Amount pursuant to paragraph (b) below.
Proposed Increase Amount
Commitment Increase Notice
          (b) Any Bank which agrees with the Borrower to increase its Commitment pursuant to this Section 2.13 shall execute a Commitment Increase Supplement with the Borrower and the Agent, substantially in the form of Exhibit C, whereupon such Bank shall be bound by and entitled to the benefits of this Agreement with respect to the full amount of its Commitment as so increased, and Schedule 2.01 shall be deemed to be amended to so increase the Commitment of such Bank.
          (c) Any additional bank, financial institution or other entity which agrees with the Borrower to participate in the increased Commitments pursuant to this Section 2.13 shall execute an Additional Bank Supplement with the Borrower and the Agent, substantially in the form of Exhibit D, whereupon such bank, financial institution or other entity (an "") shall become a Bank for all purposes and to the same extent as if originally a party hereto and shall be bound by and entitled to the benefits of this Agreement, and Schedule 2.01 shall be deemed to be amended to add the name and Commitment of such Additional Bank as so agreed; that the Commitment of any such Additional Bank shall be in an amount not less than $5,000,000.
Additional Bank
provided
          (d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 2.13, (i) in no event shall any increase in Commitments pursuant to this Section 2.13 cause the Commitments hereunder to exceed $800,000,000 and (ii) no Bank shall have any obligation to increase its Commitment unless it agrees to do so in its sole discretion. It shall be a condition to the effectiveness of any increase in the Commitments pursuant to this Section 2.13 that on the proposed effective date therefor that the conditions set forth in Sections 5.01(b) and (c) are then satisfied (and the Borrower shall be deemed to have made a representation and warranty as of such date to such effect).
          (e) Upon any increase in the Commitments pursuant to this Section 2.13 becoming effective, the shares of the Banks (including any Additional Banks) in any outstanding Letters of Credit shall be adjusted to be in proportion to their new Bank Percentages. The Agent shall also be entitled, upon any such effectiveness, to establish arrangements, which may be inconsistent in certain respects with other provisions of the Agreement but which it believes to be reasonable in the circumstances (with the intention of minimizing expense to the Borrower under Section 2.17 and disruptions for the Banks), to provide for the Additional Banks and the Banks with increasing Commitments to make Standby Loans over a reasonable period on a basis that makes their participation in the outstanding Standby Borrowings proportional to their new Bank Percentages and during such period for the Banks to receive ratable treatment with respect to their outstanding Standby Loans.
          Section 2.14. . (a) The Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Standby Borrowing, in whole or in part, upon giving written
Prepayment
 
or telecopy notice (or telephone notice promptly confirmed by written or telecopy notice) to the Agent: (i) before 10:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days prior to prepayment, in the case of Eurodollar Loans and (ii) before 10:00 a.m., New York City time, one Business Day prior to prepayment, in the case of ABR Loans; provided, however, that each partial prepayment shall be in an amount which is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000. The Borrower shall not have the right to prepay any Competitive Borrowing.
          (b) On the date of any termination or reduction of the Commitments pursuant to Section 2.11, the Borrower shall pay or prepay so much of the Standby Borrowings as shall be necessary in order that the aggregate principal amount of the Competitive Loans and Standby Loans outstanding will not exceed the Total Commitment after giving effect to such termination or reduction.
          (c) Each notice of prepayment shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing (or portion thereof) to be prepaid, shall be irrevocable and shall commit the Borrower to prepay such Borrowing (or portion thereof) by the amount stated therein on the date stated therein. All prepayments under this Section 2.14 shall be subject to Section 2.17 but otherwise without premium or penalty. All prepayments under this Section 2.14 shall be accompanied by accrued interest on the principal amount being prepaid to the date of payment.
          Section 2.15. . (a)  Notwithstanding any other provision herein, if after the date of this Agreement any change in applicable law or regulation or in the interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental authority charged with the interpretation or administration thereof (whether or not having the force of law) shall change the basis of taxation of payments to any Bank of the principal of or interest on any Eurodollar Loan or Fixed Rate Loan made by such Bank or any Fees or other amounts payable hereunder (other than changes in respect of taxes imposed on the overall net income of such Bank by the jurisdiction in which such Bank has its principal office or by any political subdivision or taxing authority therein), or shall impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of or credit extended by such Bank, or shall impose on such Bank or the London interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or any Eurodollar Loan or Fixed Rate Loan made by such Bank, and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Bank of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Loan or Fixed Rate Loan or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Bank hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise) by an amount deemed by such Bank to be material, then the Borrower will pay to such Bank within 30 days of demand such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Bank shall be entitled to request compensation under this paragraph with respect to any Competitive Loan if it shall have been aware of the change giving rise to such request at the time of submission of the Competitive Bid pursuant to which such Competitive Loan shall have been made.
Reserve Requirements; Change in Circumstances
          (b) If any Bank shall have determined that the adoption after the date hereof of any law, rule, regulation or guideline regarding capital adequacy, or any change in any of the foregoing or in the interpretation or administration of any of the foregoing by any Governmental Authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration
 
thereof, or compliance by any Bank (or any lending office of such Bank) or any Bank's holding company with any request or directive regarding capital adequacy (whether or not having the focus of law) of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency, has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Bank's capital or on the capital of such Bank's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Loans made by such Bank pursuant hereto to a level below that which such Bank or such Bank's holding company could have achieved but for such applicability, adoption, change or compliance (taking into consideration such Bank's policies and the policies of such Bank's holding company with respect to capital adequacy) by an amount deemed by such Bank to be material, then from time to time the Borrower shall pay to such Bank such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Bank or such Bank's holding company for any such reduction suffered. It is acknowledged that the Facility Fee provided for in this Agreement has been determined on the understanding that the Banks will not be required to maintain capital against their Commitments under currently applicable law, rules, regulations and regulatory guidelines. In the event the Banks shall be advised by bank regulatory authorities responsible for interpreting or administering such applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines or shall otherwise determine, on the basis of applicable laws, rules, regulations, guidelines or other requests or statements (whether or not having the force of law) of such bank regulatory authorities, that such understanding is incorrect, it is agreed that the Banks will be entitled to make claims under this paragraph based upon prevailing market requirements for commitments under comparable credit facilities against which capital is required to be maintained.
          (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 2.15, no Bank shall demand compensation for any increased cost or reduction referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) above if it shall not at the time be the general policy or practice of such Bank to demand such compensation in similar circumstances under comparable provisions of other credit agreements, if any.
          (d) A certificate of a Bank setting forth (i) such amount or amounts as shall be necessary to compensate such Bank as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) above, as the case may be, and (ii) in reasonable detail the basis of the calculation of such amount or amounts shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay each Bank the amount shown as due on any such certificate delivered by it within 30 days after the receipt of the same. If any Bank subsequently receives a refund of any such amount paid by the Borrower it shall remit such refund to the Borrower.
          (e) Failure on the part of any Bank to demand compensation for any increased costs or reduction in amounts received or receivable or reduction in return on capital with respect to any period shall not constitute a waiver of such Bank's right to demand compensation with respect to any other period; that if any Bank fails to make such demand within 90 days after it obtains knowledge of the event giving rise to the demand such Bank shall, with respect to amounts payable pursuant to this Section 2.15 resulting from such event, only be entitled to payment under this Section 2.15 for such costs incurred or reduction in amounts or return on capital from and after the date 90 days prior to the date that such Bank does make such demand. The protection of this Section shall be available to each Bank regardless of any possible contention of the invalidity or inapplicability of the law, rule, regulation, guideline or other change or condition which shall have occurred or been imposed.
provided
 
          Section 2.16. . (a) Notwithstanding any other provision herein, if any change in any law or regulation or in the interpretation thereof by any governmental authority charged with the administration or interpretation thereof shall make it unlawful for any Bank to make or maintain any Eurodollar Loan or to give effect to its obligations as contemplated hereby with respect to any Eurodollar Loan, then, by written or telecopy notice to the Borrower and to the Agent, such Bank may:
Change in Legality
     (i) declare that Eurodollar Loans will not thereafter be made by such Bank hereunder, whereupon such Bank shall not submit a Competitive Bid in response to a request for Eurodollar Competitive Loans and any request by the Borrower for a Eurodollar Standby Borrowing shall, as to such Bank only, be deemed a request for an ABR Loan unless such declaration shall be subsequently withdrawn; and
     (ii) require that all outstanding Eurodollar Loans made by it be converted to ABR Loans, in which event all such Eurodollar Loans shall be automatically converted to ABR Loans as of the effective date of such notice as provided in paragraph (b) below.
In the event any Bank shall exercise its rights under (i) or (ii) above, all payments and prepayments of principal which would otherwise have been applied to repay the Eurodollar Loans that would have been made by such Bank or the converted Eurodollar Loans of such Bank shall instead be applied to repay the ABR Loans made by such Bank in lieu of, or resulting from the conversion of, such Eurodollar Loans.
          (b) For purposes of this Section 2.16, a notice to the Borrower by any Bank shall be effective as to each Eurodollar Loan, if lawful, on the last day of the Interest Period currently applicable to such Eurodollar Loan; in all other cases such notice shall be effective on the date of receipt by the Borrower.
          (c) Each Bank agrees that, upon the occurrence of any event giving rise to the operation of paragraph (a) of this Section 2.16 with respect to such Bank, it shall have a duty to endeavor in good faith to mitigate the adverse effects that may arise as a consequence of such event to the extent that such mitigation will not, in the reasonable judgment of such Bank, entail any cost or disadvantage to such Bank that such Bank is not reimbursed or compensated for by the Borrower.
          Section 2.17. . The Borrower shall indemnify each Bank against any loss or expense which such Bank may sustain or incur as a consequence of (a) any failure by the Borrower to fulfill on the date of any borrowing hereunder the applicable conditions set forth in Article V, (b) any failure by the Borrower to borrow or to refinance or continue any Loan hereunder after irrevocable notice of such borrowing, refinancing or continuation has been given pursuant to Section 2.03 or 2.04, (c) any payment, prepayment or conversion of a Eurodollar Loan or Fixed Rate Loan required by any other provision of this Agreement or otherwise made or deemed made on a date other than the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (d) any default in payment or prepayment of the principal amount of any Loan or any part thereof or interest accrued thereon, as and when due and payable (at the due date thereof, whether by scheduled maturity, acceleration, irrevocable notice of prepayment or otherwise) or (e) the occurrence of any Event of Default, including, in each such case, any loss or reasonable expense
Indemnity
 
sustained or incurred or to be sustained or incurred in liquidating or employing deposits from third parties acquired to effect or maintain such Loan or any part thereof as a Eurodollar Loan or Fixed Rate Loan. Such loss or reasonable expense shall include an amount equal to the excess, if any, as reasonably determined by such Bank, of (i) its cost of obtaining the funds for the Loan being paid, prepaid, converted or not borrowed (assumed to be the LIBO Rate or, in the case of a Fixed Rate Loan, the fixed rate of interest applicable thereto) for the period from the date of such payment, prepayment or failure to borrow to the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, the Interest Period for such Loan which would have commenced on the date of such failure) over (ii) the amount of interest (as reasonably determined by such Bank) that would be realized by such Bank in reemploying the funds so paid, prepaid or not borrowed for the remainder of such period or Interest Period, as the case may be. A certificate of any Bank setting forth (i) any amount or amounts which such Bank is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section and (ii) in reasonable detail the basis of the calculation of such amount or amounts shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
          Each Bank shall have a duty to mitigate the damages to such Bank that may arise as a consequence of clause (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) above to the extent that such mitigation will not, in the reasonable judgment of such Bank, entail any cost or disadvantage to such Bank that such Bank is not reimbursed or compensated for by the Borrower.
          Section 2.18. . Except as required under Section 2.16, each Standby Borrowing, each payment or prepayment of principal of any Standby Borrowing, each payment of interest on the Standby Loans, each payment of the Facility Fees, each reduction of the Commitments and each refinancing of any Borrowing with a Standby Borrowing of any Type, shall be allocated pro rata among the Banks in accordance with their respective Commitments (or, if such Commitments shall have expired or been terminated, in accordance with the respective principal amounts of their outstanding Standby Loans). Each payment of principal of any Competitive Borrowing shall be allocated pro rata among the Banks participating in such Borrowing in accordance with the respective principal amounts of their outstanding Competitive Loans comprising such Borrowing. Each payment of interest on any Competitive Borrowing shall be allocated pro rata among the Banks participating in such Borrowing in accordance with the respective amounts of accrued and unpaid interest on their outstanding Competitive Loans comprising such Borrowing. For purposes of determining the available Commitments of the Banks at any time, each outstanding Competitive Borrowing shall be deemed to have utilized the Commitments of the Banks (including those Banks which shall not have made Loans as part of such Competitive Borrowing) pro rata in accordance with such respective Commitments. Each Bank agrees that in computing such Bank's portion of any Borrowing to be made hereunder, the Agent may, in its discretion, round each Bank's percentage of such Borrowing to the next higher or lower whole dollar amount.
Pro Rata Treatment
          Section 2.19. . Each Bank agrees that if it shall, through the exercise of a right of banker's lien, setoff or counterclaim against the Borrower, or pursuant to, a secured claim under Section 506 of title 11 of the United States Code or other security or interest arising from, or in lieu of, such secured claim received by such Bank under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law or otherwise, or by any other means, obtain payment (voluntary or involuntary) in respect of any Standby Loan or Loans as a result of which the
Sharing of Setoffs
 
unpaid principal portion of the Standby Loans shall be proportionately less than the unpaid principal portion of the Standby Loans of any other Bank, it shall be deemed simultaneously to have purchased from such other Bank at face value, and shall promptly pay to such other Bank the purchase price for, a participation in the Standby Loans of such other Bank, so that the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Standby Loans and participations in the Standby Loans held by each Bank shall be in the same proportion to the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all Standby Loans then outstanding as the principal amount of its Standby Loans prior to such exercise of banker's lien, setoff or counterclaim or other event was to the principal amount of all Standby Loans outstanding prior to such exercise of banker's lien, setoff or counterclaim or other event; provided, however, that, if any such purchase or purchases or adjustment shall be made pursuant to this Section 2.19 and the payment giving rise thereto shall thereafter be recovered, such purchase or purchases or adjustments shall be rescinded to the extent of such recovery and the purchase price or prices or adjustments restored without interest. The Borrower expressly consents to the foregoing arrangements and agrees that any Bank holding a participation in a Standby Loan deemed to have been so purchased may exercise any and all rights of banker's lien, setoff or counterclaim with respect to any and all moneys owing by the Borrower to such Bank by reason thereof as fully as if such Bank had made a Standby Loan directly to the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
          Section 2.20. . The Borrower shall initiate each payment (including principal of or interest on any Borrowing or any Fees or other amounts) hereunder and under any other Loan Document, without set-off, counterclaim or deduction of any kind, not later than 12:00 (noon), New York City time, on the date when due in dollars to the Agent at its offices at 270 Park Avenue, New York, New York, in immediately available funds.
Payments
          Section 2.21. . (a) Any and all payments by the Borrower hereunder shall be made, in accordance with Section 2.20, free and clear of and without deduction for any and all current or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto, excluding (i) income taxes imposed on the net income of the Agent or any Bank (or any transferee or assignee thereof, including a participation holder (any such entity a "Transferee")) and (ii) franchise taxes imposed on the net income of the Agent or any Bank (or Transferee), in each case by the jurisdiction under the laws of which the Agent or such Bank (or Transferee) is organized or has its principal place of business or any political subdivision thereof (all such nonexcluded taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities, collectively or individually, "Taxes"). If the Borrower shall be required to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder to any Bank (or any Transferee) or the Agent, (i) the sum payable shall be increased by the amount (an "additional amount") necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 2.21) such Bank (or Transferee) or the Agent (as the case may be) shall receive an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deduction been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Taxes
          (b) In addition, the Borrower agrees to pay to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law any current or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies that arise from any payment made
 
hereunder or from the execution, delivery or registration of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document ("Other Taxes").
          (c) The Borrower will indemnify each Bank (or Transferee) and the Agent for the full amount of Taxes and Other Taxes paid by such Bank (or Transferee) or the Agent, as the case may be, and any liability (including penalties, interest and expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees and expenses)) arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability prepared by a Bank, or the Agent on its behalf, setting forth in reasonable detail the basis of the calculation of such payment or liability, absent manifest error, shall be final, conclusive and binding for all purposes. Such indemnification shall be made within 30 days after the date the Bank (or Transferee) or the Agent, as the case may be, makes written demand therefor.
          (d) If a Bank (or Transferee) or the Agent shall become aware that it is entitled to claim a refund from a Governmental Authority in respect of Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower, or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts, pursuant to this Section 2.21, it shall promptly notify the Borrower of the availability of such refund claim and shall, within 30 days after receipt of a request by the Borrower, make a claim to such Governmental Authority for such refund at the Borrower's expense. If a Bank (or Transferee) or the Agent receives a refund (including pursuant to a claim for refund made pursuant to the preceding sentence) in respect of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section 2.21, it shall within 30 days from the date of such receipt pay over such refund to the Borrower (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section 2.21 with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of such Bank (or Transferee) or the Agent and without interest (other than interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund); , , that the Borrower, upon the request of such Bank (or Transferee) or the Agent, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus penalties, interest or other charges) to such Bank (or Transferee) or the Agent in the event such Bank (or Transferee) or the Agent is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority.
provided
however
          (e) As soon as practicable after the date of any payment of Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to the relevant Governmental Authority, the Borrower will deliver to the Agent, at its address referred to in Section 10.01, the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing payment thereof.
          (f) Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement contained herein, the agreements and obligations contained in this Section 2.21 shall survive the payment in full of the principal of and interest on all Loans made hereunder.
          (g) Each Bank (or Transferee) that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States, any State thereof or the District of Columbia (a "Non-U.S. Bank") shall deliver to the Borrower and the Agent two copies of either United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN or Form W-8ECI, or, in the case of a Non-U.S. Bank
 
claiming exemption from U.S. Federal withholding tax under Section 871(h) or 881(c) of the Code with respect to payments of "portfolio interest", a Form W-8BEN, or any subsequent versions thereof or successors thereto (and, if such Non-U.S. Bank delivers a Form W-8BEN, a certificate representing that such Non-U.S. Bank is not a bank for purposes of Section 881(c) of the Code, is not a 10-percent shareholder (within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code) of the Borrower and is not a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower (within the meaning of Section 864(d)(4) of the Code)), properly completed and duly executed by such Non-U.S. Bank claiming complete exemption from, or reduced rate of, U.S. Federal withholding tax on payments by the Borrower under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents. Such forms shall be delivered by each Non-U.S. Bank on or before the date it becomes a party to this Agreement (or, in the case of a Transferee that is a participation holder, on or before the date such participation holder becomes a Transferee hereunder) and on or before the date, if any, such Non-U.S. Bank changes its applicable lending office by designating a different lending office (a "New Lending Office"). In addition, each Non-U.S. Bank shall deliver such forms promptly upon the obsolescence or invalidity of any form previously delivered by such Non-U.S. Bank. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 2.21(g), a Non-U.S. Bank shall not be required to deliver any form pursuant to this Section 2.21 (g) that such Non-U.S. Bank is not legally able to deliver.
          (h) The Borrower shall not be required to indemnify any Non-U.S. Bank, or to pay any additional amounts to any Non-U.S. Bank, in respect of United States Federal withholding tax pursuant to paragraph (a) or (c) above to the extent that (i) the obligation to withhold amounts with respect to United States Federal withholding tax existed on the date such Non-U.S. Bank became a party to this Agreement (or, in the case of a Transferee that is a participation holder, on the date such participation holder became a Transferee hereunder) or, with respect to payments to a New Lending Office, the date such Non-U.S. Bank designated such New Lending Office with respect to a Loan; , , that this clause (i) of this subsection 2.21(h) shall not apply to any Transferee or New Lending Office that becomes a Transferee or New Lending Office as a result of an assignment, participation, transfer or designation made at the request of the Borrower; and , , , that this clause (i) of this subsection 2.21(h) shall not apply to the extent the indemnity payment or additional amounts any Transferee, or Bank (or Transferee) through a New Lending Office, would be entitled to receive (without regard to this clause (i) of this subsection 2.21(h)) do not exceed the indemnity payment or additional amounts that the person making the assignment, participation or transfer to such Transferee, or Bank (or Transferee) making the designation of such New Lending Office, would have been entitled to receive in the absence of such assignment, participation, transfer or designation or (ii) the obligation to pay such additional amounts would not have arisen but for a failure by such Non-U.S. Bank to comply with the provisions of paragraph (g) above.
provided
however
provided
further
however
          (i) Any Bank (or Transferee) claiming any additional amounts payable under this Section 2.21 shall (A) to the extent legally able to do so, upon written request from the Borrower, file any certificate or document if such filing would avoid the need for or reduce the amount of any such additional amounts which may thereafter accrue, and the Borrower shall not be obligated to pay such additional amounts if, after the Borrower's request, any Bank (or Transferee) could have filed such certificate or document and failed to do so; or (B) consistent with legal and regulatory restrictions, use reasonable efforts to change the jurisdiction of its
 
applicable lending office if the making of such change would avoid the need for or reduce the amount of any additional amounts which may thereafter accrue and would not, in the sole determination of such Bank (or Transferee), be otherwise disadvantageous to such Bank (or Transferee).
          (j) Nothing contained in this Section 2.21 shall require any Bank (or Transferee) or the Agent to make available any of its tax returns (or any other information that it deems to be confidential or proprietary).
          Section 2.22. . In the event any Bank delivers to the Agent or the Borrower, as appropriate, a certificate in accordance with Section 2.15(d) or a notice in accordance with Section 2.10 or 2.16, or the Borrower is required to pay any additional amounts or other payments in accordance with Section 2.21, the Borrower may, at its own expense, and in its sole discretion (a) require such Bank to transfer and assign in whole or in part, without recourse (in accordance with Section 10.04), all or part of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement (other than outstanding Competitive Loans) to an assignee which shall assume such assigned obligations (which assignee may be another Bank, if a Bank accepts such assignment); provided that (i) such assignment shall not conflict with any law, rule or regulation or order of any court or other Governmental Authority and (ii) the Borrower or such assignee shall have paid to the assigning Bank in immediately available funds the principal of and interest accrued to the date of such payment on the Loans made by it hereunder and all other amounts owed to it hereunder or (b) terminate the Commitment of such Bank and prepay all outstanding Loans (other than Competitive Loans) of such Bank; provided that (x) such termination of the Commitment of such Bank and prepayment of Loans does not conflict with any law, rule or regulation or order of any court or Governmental Authority and (y) the Borrower shall have paid to such Bank in immediately available funds the principal of, accrued interest and accrued fees to the date of such payment on the Loans (other than Competitive Loans) made by it hereunder and all other amounts owed to it hereunder.
Mandatory Assignment; Commitment Termination
          Section 3.01. . (a) Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, each Issuing Bank, in reliance on the agreements of the L/C Participants set forth in Section 3.04(a), agrees to issue letters of credit ("Letters of Credit") for the account of the Borrower on any Business Day, at any time and from time to time on and after the date hereof and until the earlier of the Maturity Date and the date of termination of the Commitments in such form as may be approved from time to time by the relevant Issuing Bank; provided that no Issuing Bank shall issue any Letters of Credit if, after giving effect to such issuance, (i) the L/C Obligations would exceed $50,000,000 or (ii) the Total Extensions of Credit would exceed the Total Commitments. Each Letter of Credit shall (i) be denominated in dollars and (ii) expire no later than the earlier of (x) the first anniversary of its date of issuance and (y) the date that is five Business Days prior to the Maturity Date then in effect, provided that any Letter of Credit with a one-year term may, at the option of the Borrower, provide for the renewal thereof for additional one-year periods (which shall in no event extend beyond the date referred to in clause (y) above). Any Letter of Credit that extends beyond the date five Business Days prior to the Maturity Date then in effect
L/C Commitment
 
shall be cash collateralized on such date in a manner satisfactory to the relevant Issuing Bank, and if the aggregate undrawn and unexpired amount under Letters of Credit outstanding as of the date five Business Days prior to a date on which the Total Commitments shall be reduced as a result of certain Banks not having extended their Commitments pursuant to Section 2.12 shall exceed the Total Commitments after giving effect to such reduction, such excess shall be cash collateralized on such date in a manner satisfactory to the relevant Issuing Banks.
          (b) No Issuing Bank shall at any time be obligated to issue any Letter of Credit if such issuance would conflict with, or cause such Issuing Bank or any L/C Participant to exceed any limits imposed by, any applicable Requirement of Law.
          Section 3.02. . The Borrower may from time to time request that an Issuing Bank issue a Letter of Credit by delivering to such Issuing Bank an Application therefor, completed to the satisfaction of such Issuing Bank, and such other certificates, documents and other papers and information as such Issuing Bank may request in connection therewith. Upon receipt of any Application, such Issuing Bank will process such Application and the certificates, documents and other papers and information delivered to it in connection therewith in accordance with its customary procedures and shall promptly issue the Letter of Credit requested thereby (but in no event shall such Issuing Bank be required to issue any Letter of Credit earlier than three Business Days after its receipt of the Application therefor and all such other certificates, documents and other papers and information relating thereto) by issuing the original of such Letter of Credit to the beneficiary thereof or as otherwise may be agreed to by such Issuing Bank and the Borrower. Such Issuing Bank shall furnish a copy of such Letter of Credit to the Borrower promptly following the issuance thereof. Such Issuing Bank shall promptly furnish to the Agent, which shall in turn promptly furnish to the Banks, notice of the issuance of each Letter of Credit (including the amount thereof).
Procedure for Issuance of Letter of Credit
          Section 3.03. . (a) The Borrower will pay a fee on all outstanding Letters of Credit at a per annum rate equal to the Applicable Percentage then in effect with respect to Eurodollar Standby Loans, shared ratably among the Banks and payable quarterly in arrears on the last day of each March, June, September and December after the issuance date and on the Maturity Date. In addition, the Borrower shall pay to each Issuing Bank for its own account a fronting fee of 0.125% per annum on the undrawn and unexpired amount of each Letter of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank (or as otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such Issuing Bank), payable quarterly in arrears on the last day of each March, June, September and December after the issuance date and on the Maturity Date.
Fees and Other Charges
          (b) In addition to the foregoing fees, the Borrower shall pay or reimburse each Issuing Bank for such normal, customary and reasonable costs and expenses as are incurred or charged by such Issuing Bank in issuing, negotiating, effecting payment under, amending or otherwise administering any Letter of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank.
          Section 3.04. . (a) Each Issuing Bank irrevocably agrees to grant and hereby grants to each L/C Participant, and, to induce each Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit, each L/C Participant irrevocably agrees to accept and purchase and hereby accepts and purchases from each Issuing Bank, on the terms and conditions set forth below, for such L/C Participant's own account and risk an undivided interest equal to such L/C Participant's Bank
L/C Participations
 
Percentage in such Issuing Bank's obligations and rights under and in respect of each Letter of Credit and the amount of each draft paid by such Issuing Bank thereunder. Each L/C Participant agrees with each Issuing Bank that, if a draft is paid under any Letter of Credit for which such Issuing Bank is not reimbursed in full by the Borrower in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, such L/C Participant shall pay to such Issuing Bank upon demand at such Issuing Bank's address for notices specified herein an amount equal to such L/C Participant's Bank Percentage of the amount of such draft, or any part thereof, that is not so reimbursed. Each L/C Participant's obligation to pay such amount shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (i) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right that such L/C Participant may have against such Issuing Bank, the Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever, (ii) the occurrence or continuance of an Event of Default or the failure to satisfy any of the other conditions specified in Article V, (iii) any adverse change in the condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower, (iv) any breach of this Agreement or any other Loan Document by the Borrower or any other L/C Participant or (v) any other circumstance, happening or event whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing.
          (b) If any amount required to be paid by any L/C Participant to the relevant Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 3.04(a) in respect of any unreimbursed portion of any payment made by such Issuing Bank under any Letter of Credit is paid to such Issuing Bank within three Business Days after the date such payment is due, such L/C Participant shall pay to such Issuing Bank on demand an amount equal to the product of (i) such amount, times (ii) the daily average Federal Funds Effective Rate during the period from and including the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to such Issuing Bank, times (iii) a fraction the numerator of which is the number of days that elapse during such period and the denominator of which is 360. If any such amount required to be paid by any L/C Participant pursuant to Section 3.04(a) is not made available to the relevant Issuing Bank by such L/C Participant within three Business Days after the date such payment is due, such Issuing Bank shall be entitled to recover from such L/C Participant, on demand, such amount with interest thereon calculated from such due date at the rate per annum applicable to ABR Loans. A certificate of such Issuing Bank submitted to any L/C Participant with respect to any amounts owing under this Section shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error.
          (c) Whenever, at any time after the relevant Issuing Bank has made payment under any Letter of Credit and has received from any L/C Participant its pro rata share of such payment in accordance with Section 3.04(a), such Issuing Bank receives any payment related to such Letter of Credit (whether directly from the Borrower or otherwise), or any payment of interest on account thereof, such Issuing Bank will distribute to such L/C Participant its pro rata share thereof; provided, however, that in the event that any such payment received by such Issuing Bank shall be required to be returned by such Issuing Bank, such L/C Participant shall return to such Issuing Bank the portion thereof previously distributed by such Issuing Bank to it.
          (d) The participations of the other Banks in Letters of Credit cash collateralized on the date five Business Days prior to Maturity Date shall end on the Maturity Date.
          Section 3.05. . If any draft is paid under any Letter of Credit, the Borrower shall reimburse the Issuing Bank that issued such Letter
Reimbursement Obligation of the Borrower
 
of Credit for the amount of (a) the draft so paid and (b) any taxes, fees, charges or other costs or expenses incurred by such Issuing Bank in connection with such payment, not later than 12:00 Noon, New York City time, on (i) the Business Day that the Borrower receives notice of such draft, if such notice is received on such day prior to 10:00 A.M., New York City time, or (ii) if clause (i) above does not apply, the Business Day immediately following the day that the Borrower receives such notice. Each such payment shall be made to such Issuing Bank at its address for notices referred to herein in dollars and in immediately available funds. Interest shall be payable on any such amounts from the date on which the relevant draft is paid until payment in full at the rate set forth in (x) until the third Business Day next succeeding the date of the relevant notice, Section 2.08(b) and (y) thereafter, Section 2.09.
          Section 3.06. . The Borrower's obligations under this Article III shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances and irrespective of any setoff, counterclaim or defense to payment that the Borrower may have or have had against any Issuing Bank, any beneficiary of a Letter of Credit or any other Person. The Borrower also agrees with each Issuing Bank that no Issuing Bank shall be responsible for, and the Borrower's Reimbursement Obligations under Section 3.05 shall not be affected by, among other things, the validity or genuineness of documents or of any endorsements thereon, even though such documents shall in fact prove to be invalid, fraudulent or forged, or any dispute between or among the Borrower and any beneficiary of any Letter of Credit or any other party to which such Letter of Credit may be transferred or any claims whatsoever of the Borrower against any beneficiary of such Letter of Credit or any such transferee. No Issuing Bank shall be liable for any error, omission, interruption or delay in transmission, dispatch or delivery of any message or advice, however transmitted, in connection with any Letter of Credit, except for errors or omissions found by a final and nonappealable decision of a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Issuing Bank. The Borrower agrees that any action taken or omitted by the relevant Issuing Bank under or in connection with any Letter of Credit or the related drafts or documents, if done in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct, shall be binding on the Borrower and shall not result in any liability of any Issuing Bank to the Borrower.
Obligations Absolute
          Section 3.07. . If any draft shall be presented for payment under any Letter of Credit, the relevant Issuing Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of the date and amount thereof. The responsibility of each Issuing Bank to the Borrower in connection with any draft presented for payment under any Letter of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank shall, in addition to any payment obligation expressly provided for in such Letter of Credit, be limited to determining that the documents (including each draft) delivered under such Letter of Credit in connection with such presentment are substantially in conformity with such Letter of Credit.
Letter of Credit Payments
          Section 3.08. . To the extent that any provision of any Application related to any Letter of Credit is inconsistent with the provisions of this Article III, the provisions of this Article III shall apply.
Applications
 
          The Borrower represents and warrants to each of the Banks that:
          Section 4.01. . The Borrower and each Subsidiary of the Borrower (a) is a corporation or other entity duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, (b) has all requisite corporate or other entity power and authority to own its property and assets and to carry on its business as now conducted, (c) is qualified to do business in every jurisdiction where such qualification is required, except where the failure so to qualify would not be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, and (d) in the case of the Borrower, has the corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under each of the Loan Documents to which it is a party and each other agreement or instrument contemplated thereby to which it is or will be a party and to borrow hereunder.
Organization; Powers
          Section 4.02. . The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement and the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of each of the other Loan Documents and the borrowings hereunder (collectively, the "Transactions") (a) have been duly authorized by all requisite corporate and, if required, stockholder action and (b) will not (i) violate (A) any provision of law, statute, rule or regulation, or of the certificate or articles of incorporation or other constitutive documents or by-laws (or code of regulations) of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, (B) any order of any Governmental Authority or (C) any provision of any indenture, agreement or other instrument to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is a party or by which any of them or any of their property is or may be bound, (ii) be in conflict with, result in a breach of or constitute (alone or with notice or lapse of time or both) a default under any such indenture, agreement or other instrument and (iii) result in the creation or imposition of any Lien upon or with respect to any property or assets now owned or hereafter acquired by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, except for any such violation, conflict, creation or imposition which does not impair the Borrower's ability to enter into and perform the Transactions or would not be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect or materially impair the position of the Banks with respect to any other creditors of the Borrower.
Authorization
          Section 4.03. . This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Borrower and constitutes, and each other Loan document when executed and delivered by the Borrower will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower, enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar laws of general application affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights or by general principles of equity.
Enforceability
          Section 4.04. . No action, consent or approval of, registration or filing with or any other action by any Governmental Authority is or will be required by the Borrower in connection with the Transactions, except such as have been made or obtained and are in full force and effect, and except for filings required by applicable securities laws after the date of this Agreement.
Governmental Approvals
 
          Section 4.05. . The Borrower has heretofore furnished to the Banks the combined balance sheets and combined statements of operations, cash flows and changes in parent company's equity of the Scripps Networks and Interactive Media businesses of Scripps (a) as of and for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, audited by and accompanied by the opinion of Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent public accountants, and (b) as of and for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2008, certified by the chief financial officer of the Borrower. Such financial statements (subject, in the case of such interim statements, to normal year-end audit adjustments) present fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Scripps Networks and Interactive Media businesses of Scripps as of such dates and for such periods. Such balance sheets and the notes thereto disclose, in accordance with GAAP, all material liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Scripps Networks and Interactive Media businesses of Scripps as of the dates thereof. Such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis.
Financial Statements
          Section 4.06. . There has been no change in the business, assets, operations or condition, financial or otherwise, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries since December 31, 2007 that would constitute a Material Adverse Effect which is not reflected in the financial statements referred to in Section 4.05(b).
No Material Adverse Change
          Section 4.07. . (a) Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries has good and marketable title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all its properties and assets, except for defects in title that would not, in the aggregate, be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. All material properties and assets are free and clear of Liens, other than Liens permitted by Section 7.02.
Title to Properties; Possession Under Leases
          (b) Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries has complied with all obligations under all leases to which it is a party, all such leases are in full force and effect and each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries enjoys peaceful and undisturbed possession under all such leases, except for any noncompliance, ineffectiveness or other conditions that would not, in the aggregate, be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
          Section 4.08. . After giving effect to the Spin-off, more than 51% of the outstanding Common Voting Shares, par value $.01, of the Borrower are owned legally, beneficially and of record by the Trust or the beneficiaries thereof.
Stock of Borrower
          Section 4.09. . (a) Except as set forth in Schedule 4.09 or otherwise disclosed to the Banks in writing, there are not any actions, suits or proceedings at law or in equity or by or before any Governmental Authority now pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened against the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any business, property or rights of any such person (i) which involve any Loan Document or the Transactions or (ii) as to which there is a reasonable possibility of an adverse determination and which, if adversely determined, would, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Litigation; Compliance with Laws
          (b) None of the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is in violation of any law, rule or regulation, or in default with respect to any judgment, writ, injunction or decree of any
 
Governmental Authority, where such violation or default would be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
          Section 4.10. . (a) None of the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is a party to any agreement or instrument or subject to any corporate restriction that has resulted or would be reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Agreements
          (b) None of the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is in default in any manner under any provision of any indenture or other agreement or instrument evidencing Indebtedness, or any other material agreement or instrument to which it is a party or by which it or any of its properties or assets are or may be bound, where such default would be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
          Section 4.11. . (a)  None of the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is engaged principally, or as one of its important activities, in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock.
Federal Reserve Regulations
          (b) No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used, whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, (i) to purchase or carry Margin Stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock or to refund indebtedness originally incurred for such purpose, or (ii) for any purpose which entails a violation of, or which is inconsistent with, the provisions of the Regulations of the Board, including Regulation T, U or X.
          Section 4.12. . None of the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Investment Company Act
          Section 4.13. . The Borrower will use the proceeds of the Loans only for the purposes specified in the preamble to this Agreement and in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.11.
Use of Proceeds
          Section 4.14. . Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries has filed or caused to be filed all Federal, state and local tax returns required to have been filed by it and has paid or caused to be paid all taxes shown to be due and payable on such returns or on any assessments received by it, except taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which the Borrower or a Subsidiary shall have set aside on its books adequate reserves.
Tax Returns
          Section 4.15. . No material information, report, financial statement, exhibit or schedule furnished by the Borrower in writing to the Agent or any Bank (including that certain registration statement of the Borrower on Form 10 (including any documents incorporated by reference therein) dated March 26, 2008, as amended, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the "Registration Statement") in connection with the negotiation of any Loan Document or included therein or delivered pursuant thereto contained, contains or will contain any material misstatement of fact or omitted, omits or will omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were, are or will be made, not misleading.
No Material Misstatements
 
          Section 4.16. . Except as would not reasonably be likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, and except as set forth in Schedule 4.16, (i) the Borrower and each of its ERISA Affiliates is in compliance with the applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code and the regulations and published interpretations thereunder and (ii) no ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur. Except as set forth in Schedule 4.16, the present value of all accumulated benefit obligations under each Pension Plan (based on those assumptions used for purposes of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87) did not, as of the date of the most recent financial statements reflecting such amounts, exceed by more than a material amount the fair market value of the assets of such Pension Plan allocable to such accrued benefits, and the present value of all accumulated benefit obligations of all underfunded Pension Plans (based on those assumptions used for purposes of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87) did not, as of the date of the most recent financial statements reflecting such amounts, exceed by more than a material amount the fair market value of all such underfunded Pension Plans.
Employee Benefit Plans
          Section 4.17. . Except as set forth in Schedule 4.17 or otherwise previously disclosed to the Banks in writing, the Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries has complied with all Federal, state, local and other statutes, ordinances, orders, judgments, rulings and regulations relating to environmental pollution or to environmental regulation or control or to employee health or safety, except for violations which, in the aggregate, would not be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. Except as set forth in Schedule 4.17 or otherwise previously disclosed to the Banks in writing, neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries has received written notice of any failure so to comply. Except as set forth in Schedule 4.17 or otherwise previously disclosed to the Banks in writing, the Borrower's and its Subsidiaries' plants do not manage any hazardous wastes, hazardous substances, hazardous materials, toxic substances, toxic pollutants, or substances similarly denominated, as those terms or similar terms are used in the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act, the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, the Toxic Substance Control Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act or any other applicable law relating to environmental pollution or employee health and safety, in violation in any material respect of any law or any regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, except for violations which, in the aggregate, would not be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. Except as set forth in Schedule 4.17 or otherwise previously disclosed to the Banks in writing, neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is aware of any events, conditions or circumstances involving environmental pollution or contamination or employee health or safety that is reasonably expected to result in liability which would have a Material Adverse Effect.
Environmental and Safety Matters
          The obligations of the Banks to make Loans hereunder are subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
 
          Section 5.01. . On the date of each Borrowing and of each issuance of a Letter of Credit (excluding each Borrowing in which Loans are refinanced with new Loans in the same or a lesser principal amount as contemplated by Section 2.05):
All Borrowings
          (a) In the case of a Borrowing, the Agent shall have received a notice of such Borrowing as required by Section 2.03 or Section 2.04, as applicable.
          (b) The representations and warranties set forth in Article IV hereof (except, subject to Section 5.02(e), the representations set forth in Sections 4.06 and 4.09(a)) shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Borrowing or such issuance, as the case may be, with the same effect as though made on and as of such date, except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date.
          (c) At the time of and immediately after such Borrowing or such issuance, as the case may be, no Event of Default or Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
Each Borrowing, and each such issuance, shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower on the date thereof as to the matters specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section 5.01.
          Section 5.02. . On the Closing Date:
Closing Date
          (a) The Agent shall have received a favorable written opinion of Baker & Hostetler LLP, counsel for the Borrower, dated the Closing Date and addressed to the Banks, to the effect set forth in Exhibit G hereto, and the Borrower hereby instructs such counsel to deliver such opinion to the Agent.
          (b) All legal matters incident to this Agreement and the borrowings hereunder shall be satisfactory to the Banks and their counsel and to Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, counsel for the Agent.
          (c) The Agent shall have received (i) a copy of the articles of incorporation, including all amendments thereto, of the Borrower, certified as of a recent date by the Secretary of State of the state of its organization, and a certificate as to the good standing of the Borrower as of a recent date, from such Secretary of State; (ii) a certificate of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Borrower dated the Closing Date and certifying (A) that attached thereto is a true and complete copy of the code of regulations of the Borrower as in effect on the Closing Date and at all times since a date prior to the date of the resolutions described in clause (B) below, (B) that attached thereto is a true and complete copy of resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Borrower authorizing the execution, delivery and performance of the Loan Documents and the borrowings hereunder, and that such resolutions have not been modified, rescinded or amended and are in full force and effect, (C) that the articles of incorporation of the Borrower have not been amended since the date of the last amendment thereto shown on the certificate of good standing furnished pursuant to clause (i) above, and (D) as to the incumbency and specimen signature of each officer executing any Loan document or any other document delivered in connection herewith
 
on behalf of the Borrower; (iii) a certificate of another officer as to the incumbency and specimen signature of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary executing the certificate pursuant to (ii) above; and (iv) such other documents as the Banks or their counsel or Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, counsel for the Agent, may reasonably request.
          (d) The Agent shall have received a certificate from the Borrower, dated the Closing Date and signed by a Financial Officer thereof, confirming compliance with the conditions precedent set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 5.01.
          (e) The representations and warranties set forth in Sections 4.06 and 4.09(a) shall be true and correct in all material respects.
          (f) The Agent shall have received all Fees and other amounts due and payable on or prior to the Closing Date.
          (g) The conditions to the Spin-off as set forth on the Registration Statement shall have been satisfied on the date of the first Borrowing.
          The Borrower covenants and agrees with each Bank that, so long as this Agreement shall remain in effect or the principal of or interest on any Loan, any Fees or any other expenses or amounts payable under any Loan Document shall be unpaid, or while any Letter of Credit remains outstanding, unless the Required Banks shall otherwise consent in writing, it will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to:
          Section 6.01. . (a) Do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its legal existence, except as otherwise expressly permitted under Section 7.04 and except with respect to the Subsidiaries of the Borrower where such failure would not reasonably be likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Existence; Businesses and Properties
          (b) Except to the extent that the failure to do or cause the same to be done would not be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, (i) do or cause to be done all things necessary to obtain, preserve, renew, extend and keep in full force and effect the rights, licenses, permits, franchises, authorizations, patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade names material to the conduct of its business; (ii) maintain and operate such business in substantially the manner in which it is presently conducted and operated (subject to changes in the ordinary course of business); (iii) comply in all material respects with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority, whether now in effect or hereafter enacted; and (iv) at all times maintain and preserve all property material to the conduct of such business and keep such property in good repair, working order and condition and from time to time make, or cause to be made all needful and proper repairs, renewals, additions, improvements and replacements thereto necessary in order that the business carried on in connection therewith may be properly conducted at all times.
 
          Section 6.02. . (a) Keep its insurable properties adequately insured at all times by financially sound and reputable insurers; (b) maintain such other insurance, to such extent and against such risks, including fire and other risks insured against by extended coverage, as is customary with companies in the same or similar businesses, including commercial general liability insurance against claims for personal injury or death or property damage occurring upon, in, about or in connection with the use of any properties owned, occupied or controlled by it, and (c) maintain such other insurance as may be required by law; provided, however, that, in lieu of or supplementing any such insurance described in (a) or (b) above, it may adopt such other plan or method of protection conforming to its self-insurance practices existing on the date hereof, including the creation of a "captive" insurance company.
Insurance
          Section 6.03. . Except to the extent the failure to do so would not, in the aggregate, be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, pay its Indebtedness and other obligations promptly and in accordance with their terms and pay and discharge promptly when due all taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or upon it or upon its income or profits or in respect of its property, before the same shall become delinquent or in default, as well as all lawful claims for labor, materials and supplies or otherwise which, if unpaid, might give rise to a Lien upon such properties or any part thereof; provided, however, that such payment and discharge shall not be required with respect to any such tax, assessment, charge, levy or claim so long as the validity or amount thereof shall be contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and the Borrower or a Subsidiary shall have set aside on its books adequate reserves with respect thereto.
Obligations and Taxes
          Section 6.04. . Furnish to the Agent and each Bank:
Financial Statements, Reports, etc
          (a) within the earlier of (x) the period for the required filing of a report on Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission including such financial statements and (y) 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its consolidated subsidiaries, the related consolidated statements of operations and the related consolidated statements of stockholders' equity and cash flows, showing the financial condition of the Borrower and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the close of such fiscal year and the results of its operations during such year, all such consolidated financial statements audited by and accompanied by the report thereon of Deloitte & Touche LLP or other independent public accountants of recognized national standing reasonably acceptable to the Required Banks and accompanied by an opinion of such accountants (which shall not be qualified in any material respect);
          (b) within the earlier of (x) the period for the required filing of a report on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission including such financial statements and (y) 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a consolidated balance sheet and related consolidated statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows, showing the financial condition of the Borrower and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the close of such fiscal quarter and the results of its operations during such fiscal quarter and the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year, all certified by a Financial Officer of the Borrower as fairly presenting in all material respects the financial condition and results of
 
operations of the Borrower on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments;
          (c) no later than three Business Days after any delivery of financial statements under (a) or (b) above, a certificate of a Financial Officer of the Borrower opining on or certifying such statements (i) stating that no Event of Default or Default has occurred and is continuing or, if such an Event of Default or Default has occurred and is continuing, specifying the nature and extent thereof and any corrective action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto and (ii) setting forth computations in reasonable detail satisfactory to the Agent demonstrating compliance with the covenants contained in Sections 7.01(a) and (b)(iv) and 7.03;
          (d) promptly after the same become publicly available, copies of all material periodic and other reports, proxy statements and other materials filed by the Borrower or any Subsidiary with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any governmental authority succeeding to any of or all the functions of said Commission, or with any national securities exchange, or distributed to its public shareholders, as the case may be;
          (e) promptly after the same become publicly available, copies of all material reports pertaining to any change in ownership filed by the Borrower or any Subsidiary with any Governmental Authority; and
          (f) promptly, from time to time, such other information regarding the operations, business affairs and financial condition of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of any Loan Document, as the Agent or any Bank may reasonably request.
Information required to be furnished pursuant to this Section 6.04 shall be deemed to have been furnished to the Agent and the Banks if such information, or one or more annual or quarterly reports containing such information, shall have been posted by the Agent on an IntraLinks or similar site to which the Banks have been granted access or shall be available on the website of the Securities and Exchange Commission at http://www.sec.gov (and a confirming electronic correspondence shall have been delivered or caused to be delivered to the Banks providing notice of such posting or availability). Information required to be delivered pursuant to this Section 6.04 may also be delivered by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Agent.
          Section 6.05. . Furnish to the Agent and each Bank prompt written notice of the following:
Litigation and Other Notices
          (a) any Event of Default or Default, specifying the nature and extent thereof and the corrective action (if any) proposed to be taken with respect thereto;
          (b) the filing or commencement of, or any written threat or notice of intention of any person to file or commence, any action, suit or proceeding, whether at law or in equity or by or before any Governmental Authority, against the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof which could be reasonably anticipated to be adversely determined and, if adversely determined, could result in a Material Adverse Effect; and
 
          (c) any development that has resulted in, or is reasonably anticipated by the Borrower to result in, a Material Adverse Effect.
          Section 6.06. . Furnish to the Agent (a) promptly after, and in any event with 10 days after any Responsible Officer of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate knows or has reason to know that any ERISA Event has occurred that alone or together with any other ERISA Event could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Borrower in an aggregate amount exceeding a material amount, notice describing such ERISA Event and a statement of a Financial Officer setting forth details as to such ERISA Event and the action proposed to be taken with respect thereto, together with a copy of the notice, if any, of such ERISA Event given to or received from the PBGC, any Plan Administrator, or any Multiemployer Plan and (ii) promptly following receipt thereof, copies of any documents described in Sections 101(k) or 101(l) of ERISA that Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate may request with respect to any Multiemployer Plan; , that if the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates has not requested such documents or notices from the administrator or sponsor of the applicable Multiemployer Plan, then upon reasonable request of the Administrative Agent, the Borrower and/or its ERISA Affiliates shall promptly make a request for such documents or notices from such administrator or sponsor and the Borrower shall provide copies of such documents and notices promptly after receipt thereof.
ERISA
provided
          Section 6.07. . Maintain all financial records in accordance with GAAP and permit any representatives designated by any Bank to visit and inspect the financial records and the properties of the Borrower or any Subsidiary upon reasonable prior notice at reasonable times and as often as reasonably requested (provided that such Bank shall make reasonable efforts not to interfere unreasonably with the business of the Borrower or any Subsidiary) and to make extracts from and copies of such financial records, and permit any representatives designated by any Bank to discuss the affairs, finances and condition of the Borrower or any Subsidiary with the officers thereof and independent accountants therefor; provided that each person obtaining such information shall hold all such information in strict confidence in accordance with the restrictions set forth in Section 10.16.
Maintaining Records; Access to Properties and Inspections
          Section 6.08. . Use the proceeds of the Loans only for the purposes set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
Use of Proceeds
          Section 6.09. . Make all filings required to be made by it with any Governmental Authority, except where the failure to make any such filings would not reasonably be likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Filings
          The Borrower covenants and agrees with each Bank and the Agent that, so long as this Agreement shall remain in effect or the principal of or interest on any Loan, any Fees or any other expenses or amounts payable under any Loan Document shall be unpaid, or while any
 
Letter of Credit remains outstanding, unless the Required Banks shall otherwise consent in writing, it will not, and will not cause or permit any of its Subsidiaries to:
          Section 7.01. . (a) Permit the ratio of Consolidated Indebtedness of the Borrower to Consolidated EBITDA of the Borrower at the end of and for the most recently ended four consecutive calendar quarters at any time to be greater than 4.0 to 1.0.
Indebtedness
          (b) Permit any Subsidiary of the Borrower to incur, create, assume or permit to exist any Indebtedness, except:
     (i) Indebtedness existing on the date hereof as set forth in Schedule 7.01 hereto, and additional Indebtedness incurred pursuant to commitments by persons to lend to any Subsidiary but only to the extent such commitments are available and unused as of the date hereof as set forth in Schedule 7.01 hereto;
     (ii) Indebtedness of a Subsidiary or business existing at the time such Subsidiary or business was acquired by the Borrower or a Subsidiary; that such Indebtedness was not incurred in contemplation of such acquisition;
provided
     (iii) Indebtedness to the Borrower or to another Subsidiary of the Borrower;
     (iv) Indebtedness (whether Capital Lease Obligations, deferred purchase price or otherwise) of a Subsidiary secured by Liens permitted by Section 7.02(f) and incurred after the date hereof for the acquisition, construction or improvement of real or personal property; and
     (v) other Indebtedness exclusive of the Indebtedness permitted by clauses (i) through (iv) above in an aggregate amount at any time outstanding which, without duplication, when added to the aggregate Indebtedness secured by Liens permitted by Section 7.02(k) and to the aggregate amount incurred by the Borrower and any of the Subsidiaries pursuant to Section 7.03(ii) herein, shall not exceed 15% of the Consolidated Stockholders' Equity of the Borrower at such time.
          Section 7.02. . Create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien on any property or assets (including stock or other securities of any person, including any Subsidiary) now owned or hereafter acquired by it or on any income or revenues or rights in respect of any thereof, except:
Liens
          (a) Liens incurred or pledges and deposits made in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and old-age pensions and other social security benefits;
          (b) Liens securing the performance of bids, tenders, leases, contracts (other than for the repayment of borrowed money), statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds and other obligations of like nature, incurred as an incident to and in the ordinary course of business;
 
          (c) Liens imposed by law, such as carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, suppliers', repairmen's and vendors' liens, incurred in good faith in the ordinary course of business with respect to obligations not delinquent or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and as to which the Borrower or a Subsidiary shall have set aside on its books adequate reserves;
          (d) Liens securing the payment of taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies, either (i) not delinquent or (ii) being contested in good faith by appropriate legal or administrative proceedings and as to which the Borrower or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, shall have set aside on its books adequate reserves;
          (e) zoning restrictions, easements, licenses, reservations, restrictions on the use of real property or minor irregularities incident thereto (and with respect to leasehold interests: mortgages, obligations, liens and other encumbrances that are incurred, created, assumed or permitted to exist and arise by, through or under or are asserted by a landlord or owner of the leased property, with or without consent of the lessee) which were not incurred in connection with the borrowing of money or the obtaining of advances or credit and which do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value of the property or assets of the Borrower or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, or impair the use of such property for the purposes for which such property is held by the Borrower or such Subsidiary;
          (f) Liens to secure the purchase price of real or personal property acquired, constructed or improved after the date hereof; that any such Lien is existing or created at the time of, or substantially simultaneously with, the acquisition, construction or improvement by the Borrower or a Subsidiary of the property so acquired and at all times covers only such property;
provided
          (g) Liens on property of a Subsidiary in favor of the Borrower or another Subsidiary;
          (h) Liens created by or resulting from any litigation or proceeding which is currently being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and as to which (i) levy and execution have been stayed and continue to be stayed and (ii) the Borrower or a Subsidiary shall have set aside on its books adequate reserves;
          (i) Liens on property of a Subsidiary existing at the time it becomes a Subsidiary; that such Liens were not created in contemplation of the acquisition by the Borrower or another Subsidiary of such Subsidiary;
provided
          (j) Liens on the property of the Borrower or a Subsidiary incidental to the conduct of its business or the ownership of its property which were not incurred in connection with the borrowing of money or the obtaining of advances or credit or other financial accommodations (including but not limited to interest rate swap obligations or letter of credit obligations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary), and which do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value of its property or assets or impair the use thereof in the operation of its business;
 
          (k) the Borrower and any Subsidiary may incur Liens not otherwise permitted by this covenant securing Indebtedness in an aggregate amount at any time outstanding which, without duplication, when added to the aggregate amount incurred by Subsidiaries under Section 7.01(b)(v) and to the aggregate amount incurred by the Borrower and the Subsidiaries under Section 7.03(ii) does not exceed 15% of Consolidated Stockholders' Equity of the Borrower at such time;
           (l) judgment Liens that do not constitute an Event of Default;
          (m) Liens on property acquired by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries after the Closing Date so long as such Liens are limited to the property acquired and were not created in contemplation of the acquisition; and
          (n) Liens on property of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries existing on the date hereof as set forth in Schedule 7.02 hereto.
          Section 7.03. . Enter into any arrangement, directly or indirectly, with any person whereby it shall sell or transfer any property, real or personal, used or useful in its business, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, and thereafter rent or lease such property or other property which it intends to use for substantially the same purpose or purposes as the property being sold or transferred, except that (i) any Subsidiary may enter into such an arrangement for the sale or transfer of its property to another Subsidiary or to the Borrower and (ii) the Borrower and the Subsidiaries may enter into any such arrangements provided that the aggregate sale price of all property subject to such arrangements (other than arrangements described in clause (i) above), when added to the aggregate amount of Indebtedness incurred by Subsidiaries under Section 7.01(b)(v) and to the aggregate amount of Indebtedness secured by Liens permitted by Section 7.02(k), without duplication, shall not exceed 15% of the Consolidated Stockholders' Equity of the Borrower at such time.
Sale and Lease-Back Transactions
          Section 7.04. . Merge into or consolidate with any other person, or permit any other person to merge into or consolidate with it, or sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) or purchase, lease or otherwise acquire (in one transaction or a series of transactions) all or substantially all of the assets of any other person, except that if at the time thereof and immediately after giving effect thereto no Event of Default or Default shall have occurred and be continuing, (a) the Borrower or a Subsidiary may merge with another corporation in a transaction in which the surviving entity is the Borrower or such Subsidiary, respectively, and, in the case of a Subsidiary, the surviving entity is a wholly owned Subsidiary, (b) any Subsidiary may merge into the Borrower or another Subsidiary; or (c) the Borrower or a Subsidiary may purchase, lease or otherwise acquire any assets of any other person.
Mergers, Consolidations and Sales of Assets
          Section 7.05. . Change its fiscal year.
Fiscal Year
          Section 7.06. . Enter into any transaction, including, without limitation, any purchase, sale, lease or exchange of property, the rendering of any service
Transactions with Affiliates
 
or the payment of any management, advisory or similar fees, with any Affiliate (other than the Borrower or any Subsidiary) unless such transaction is (a) not otherwise prohibited under this Agreement, (b) in the ordinary course of business of the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as the case may be, and (c) upon fair and reasonable terms no less favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as the case may be, than it would obtain in a comparable arm's length transaction with a Person that is not an Affiliate; provided, however, this Section 7.06 shall not be deemed to prohibit any of the transactions or relationships with Affiliates contemplated by the agreements listed in Schedule 7.06 attached hereto.
          Section 7.07. . Enter into any business, either directly or through any Subsidiary, except for those businesses in which the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are engaged on the date of this Agreement or that are reasonably related thereto.
Lines of Business
          In case of the happening of any of the following events ("Events of Default"):
          (a) any representation or warranty made or deemed made in or in connection with any Loan Document or the borrowings hereunder, or any representation, warranty, statement or information contained in any report, certificate, financial statement or other instrument furnished in connection with or pursuant to any Loan Document, shall prove to have been false or misleading in any material respect when so made, deemed made or furnished;
          (b) default shall be made in the payment of any principal of any Loan or Reimbursement Obligation when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or by acceleration thereof or otherwise;
          (c) default shall be made in the payment of any interest on any Loan, Reimbursement Obligation or any Fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in (b) above) due under any Loan Document, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of 5 Business Days;
          (d) default shall be made in the due observance or performance by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of any covenant, condition or agreement contained in Section 6.01(a) or 6.05(a) or in Article VII;
          (e) default shall be made in the due observance or performance by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of any covenant, condition or agreement contained in any Loan Document (other than those specified in (b), (c) or (d) above) and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after written notice thereof from the Agent or any Bank to the Borrower;
 
          (f) the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall (i) fail to pay any principal or interest, regardless of amount, due in respect of any Indebtedness in a principal amount in excess of $10,000,000, when and as the same shall become due and payable, subject, in the case of interest only, to any applicable grace period (but not for more than 5 Business Days), or (ii) fail to observe or perform any other term, covenant, condition or agreement contained in any agreement or instrument evidencing or governing any such Indebtedness if the effect of any failure referred to in this clause (ii) is to cause, or permit the holder or beneficiary of such Indebtedness (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such holder or beneficiary) to cause, such Indebtedness to become due prior to its stated maturity;
          (g) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed in a court of competent jurisdiction seeking (i) relief in respect of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or of a substantial part of the property or assets of the Borrower or a Subsidiary, under Title 11 of the United States Code, as now constituted or hereafter amended, or any other Federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law, (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Borrower or any Subsidiary or for a substantial part of the property or assets of the Borrower or a Subsidiary or (iii) the winding-up or liquidation of the Borrower or any Subsidiary; and such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 90 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be unstayed and in effect for 90 days;
          (h) the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking relief under Title 11 of the United States Code, as now constituted or hereafter amended, or any other Federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or the filing of any petition described in (g) above, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Borrower or any Subsidiary or for a substantial part of the property or assets of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, (vi) become unable, admit in writing its inability or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due or (vii) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing;
          (i) one or more final judgments for the payment of money in excess of $10,000,000, excluding such amounts which are covered by insurance, shall be rendered against the Borrower, any Subsidiary or any combination thereof and the same shall remain undischarged for a period of 30 consecutive days during which execution shall not be effectively stayed, or any action shall be legally taken by a judgment creditor to levy upon assets or properties of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to enforce any such judgment;
          (j) (i) except to the extent that the actions, facts or circumstances described in Schedule 4.16 constitute or may result in a Reportable Event, an ERISA Event shall
 
have occurred, (ii) a trustee shall be appointed by a United States district court to administer any Pension Plan, (iii) the PBGC shall institute proceedings to terminate any Pension Plan(s), (iv) Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates shall have been notified by the sponsor of a Multiemployer Plan that it has incurred or will be assessed Withdrawal Liability to such Multiemployer Plan and such entity does not have reasonable grounds for contesting such Withdrawal Liability or is not contesting such Withdrawal Liability in a timely and appropriate manner; or (v) any other event or condition (except as described, or resulting from the matters described, in Schedule 4.16) shall occur or exist with respect to a Plan; and in each case in clauses (i) through (v) above, such event or condition, together with all other such events or conditions, if any, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; or
          (k) there shall have occurred a Change in Control;
then, and in every such event (other than an event with respect to the Borrower described in paragraph (g) or (h) above), and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Agent, at the request of the Required Banks, shall, by notice to the Borrower, take either or both of the following actions, at the same or different times: (i) terminate forthwith the Commitments and (ii) declare the Loans then outstanding to be forthwith due and payable in whole or in part, whereupon the principal of the Loans so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and any unpaid accrued Fees and all other liabilities of the Borrower accrued hereunder and under any other Loan Document (including all amounts of L/C Obligations, whether or not the beneficiaries of the then outstanding Letters of Credit shall have presented the documents required thereunder), shall become forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower, anything contained herein or in any other Loan Document to the contrary notwithstanding; and in any event with respect to the Borrower described in paragraph (g) or (h) above, the Commitments shall automatically terminate and the principal of the Loans then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and any unpaid accrued Fees and all other liabilities of the Borrower accrued hereunder and under any other Loan Document (including all amounts of L/C Obligations, whether or not the beneficiaries of the then outstanding Letters of Credit shall have presented the documents required thereunder), shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower, anything contained herein or in any other Loan Document to the contrary notwithstanding. With respect to all Letters of Credit with respect to which presentment for honor shall not have occurred at the time of an acceleration pursuant to this paragraph, the Borrower shall at such time deposit in a cash collateral account opened by the Agent an amount equal to the aggregate then undrawn and unexpired amount of such Letters of Credit. Amounts held in such cash collateral account shall be applied by the Agent to the payment of drafts drawn under such Letters of Credit, and the unused portion thereof after all such Letters of Credit shall have expired or been fully drawn upon, if any, shall be applied to repay other obligations of the Borrower hereunder and under the other Loan Documents. After all such Letters of Credit shall have expired or been fully drawn upon, all Reimbursement Obligations shall have been satisfied and all other obligations of the Borrower hereunder and under the other Loan Documents shall have been paid in full, the balance, if any, in such cash collateral account shall be returned to the Borrower (or such other Person as may be lawfully entitled thereto). Amounts deposited in the cash collateral account shall bear interest at a rate at
 
least equal to the rate generally offered by the Agent for overnight deposits equal to the amount deposited by the Borrower in the cash collateral account.
          In order to expedite the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is hereby appointed to act as Agent on behalf of the Banks. Each of the Banks, and each transferee of any Bank, hereby irrevocably authorizes the Agent to take such actions on behalf of such Bank or transferee and to exercise such powers as are specifically delegated to the Agent by the terms and provisions hereof and of the other Loan Documents, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The Agent is hereby expressly authorized by the Banks, without hereby limiting any implied authority, (a) to receive on behalf of the Banks all payments of principal of and interest on the Loans and all other amounts due to the Banks hereunder, and promptly to distribute to each Bank its proper share of each payment so received; (b) to give notice on behalf of each of the Banks to the Borrower of any Event of Default specified in this Agreement of which the Agent has actual knowledge acquired in connection with its agency hereunder; and (c) to distribute to each Bank copies of all notices, financial statements and other materials delivered by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement as received by the Agent.
          Neither the Agent nor any of its directors, officers, employees or agents shall be liable as such for any action taken or omitted by any of them except for its or his own gross negligence or willful misconduct, or be responsible for any statement, warranty or representation herein or the contents of any document delivered in connection herewith, or be required to ascertain or to make any inquiry concerning the performance or observance by the Borrower of any of the terms, conditions, covenants or agreements contained in any Loan Document. The Agent shall not be responsible to the Banks for the due execution, genuineness, validity, enforceability or effectiveness of this Agreement or any other Loan Documents or other instruments or agreements. The Agent shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or refraining from acting, in accordance with written instructions signed by the Required Banks and, except as otherwise specifically provided herein, such instructions and any action or inaction pursuant thereto shall be binding on all the Banks. The Agent shall, in the absence of knowledge to the contrary, be entitled to rely on any instrument or document believed by it in good faith to be genuine and correct and to have been signed or sent by the proper person or persons. Neither the Agent nor any of its directors, officers, employees or agents shall have any responsibility to the Borrower on account of the failure of or delay in performance or breach by any Bank of any of its obligations hereunder or to any Bank on account of the failure of or delay in performance or breach by any other Bank or the Borrower of any of their respective obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document or in connection herewith or therewith. The Agent may execute any and all duties hereunder by or through agents or employees and shall be entitled to rely upon the advice of legal counsel selected by it with respect to all matters arising hereunder and shall not be liable for any action taken or suffered in good faith by it in accordance with the advice of such counsel.
 
          The Banks hereby acknowledge that the Agent shall be under no duty to take any discretionary action permitted to be taken by it pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement unless it shall be requested in writing to do so by the Required Banks.
          Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Agent as provided below, the Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Banks and the Borrower. Upon any such resignation, the Required Banks shall have the right to appoint a successor. If no successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Banks and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Agent may, on behalf of the Banks, appoint a successor Agent having a combined capital and surplus of at least $500,000,000 or an Affiliate of any such bank. Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Agent hereunder by a successor bank, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Agent and the retiring Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. After the Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 10.05 shall continue in effect for its benefit in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was acting as Agent.
          With respect to the Loans made by it hereunder, the Agent in its individual capacity and not as Agent shall have the same rights and powers as any other Bank and may exercise the same as though it were not the Agent, and the Agent and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if it were not the Agent.
          Each Bank agrees (i) to reimburse the Agent, on demand, (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrower and without limiting the obligation of the Borrower to do so), in the amount of its pro rata share (based on its Commitment hereunder) of any expenses incurred for the benefit of the Banks by the Agent, including counsel fees and compensation of agents and employees paid for services rendered on behalf of the Banks, which shall not have been reimbursed by the Borrower and (ii) to indemnify and hold harmless the Agent and any of its directors, officers, employees or agents, on demand, in the amount of such pro rata share, from and against any and all liabilities, taxes, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements (irrespective of whether the Agent is a party to the action for which indemnification hereunder is sought) of any kind or nature whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against it in its capacity as the Agent or any of them in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any action taken or omitted by it or any of them under this Agreement or any other Loan Document, to the extent the same shall not have been reimbursed by the Borrower; that no Bank shall be liable to the Agent for any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Agent or any of its directors, officers, employees or agents.
provided
          Each Bank acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Bank and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Bank also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Bank and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem
 
appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement or any other Loan Document, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
          Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Joint Bookrunners, Joint Lead Arrangers, Syndication Agent or Documentation Agents listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Agent or a Bank hereunder.
          Section 10.01. . Notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopy, as follows:
Notices
          (a) if to the Borrower, to it at 312 Walnut Street, Suite 2800, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202, Attention of Treasurer (Telecopy No. 513-977-3729) with a copy to Baker & Hostetler LLP, counsel for the Borrower, to it at 312 Walnut Street, Suite 3200, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202, Attention of Eric J. Geppert, Esq. (Telecopy No. 513-929-0303);
          (b) if to the Agent, to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 10 South Dearborn, Floor 7, Mail Code IL1-0110, Chicago, IL 60603, Attention of Margaret Mamani (Telecopy No. 312-732-7976), with copies to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 10 South Dearborn Street, Floor 9, Mail Code IL1-0364, Chicago, IL 60603, Attention of Robert S. Sheppard (Telecopy No. 312-732-3144); and
          (c) if to a Bank, to it at its address (or telecopy number) set forth in Schedule 2.01 or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which such Bank shall have become a party hereto.
All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt if delivered by hand or overnight courier service or sent by telecopy, in each case delivered, sent or mailed (properly addressed) to such party as provided in this Section 10.01 or in accordance with the latest unrevoked direction from such party given in accordance with this Section 10.01.
          Section 10.02. . All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Borrower herein and in the certificates or other material instruments prepared or delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement or any other Loan Document shall be considered to have been relied upon by the Banks and shall survive the making by the Banks of the Loans, regardless of any investigation made by the Banks or on their behalf, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any Fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement
Survival of Agreement
 
or any other Loan Document is outstanding and unpaid and so long as the Commitments have not been terminated.
          Section 10.03. . This Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Borrower and the Agent and when the Agent shall have received copies hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each Bank, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Agent and each Bank and their respective successors and assigns, except that the Borrower shall not have the right to assign its rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior consent of all the Banks.
Binding Effect
          Section 10.04. . (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that (i) the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Bank (and any attempted assignment or transfer by the Borrower without such consent shall be null and void) and (ii) no Bank may assign or otherwise transfer its rights or obligations hereunder except in accordance with this Section. Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants (to the extent provided in paragraph (c) of this Section) and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Agent and the Banks) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns
          (b) (i) Subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph (b)(ii) below, any Bank may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it) with the prior written consent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed) of:
          (A) the Borrower, that no consent of the Borrower shall be required for an assignment to a Bank, an Affiliate of a Bank, an Approved Fund (as defined below) or, if an Event of Default under clause (b), (c), (g) or (h) of Article VIII has occurred and is continuing, any other assignee; and
provided
          (B) the Agent, that no consent of the Agent shall be required for an assignment to an assignee that is a Bank or an Affiliate of a Bank immediately prior to giving effect to such assignment.
provided
          (ii) Assignments shall be subject to the following additional conditions:
          (A) except in the case of an assignment to a Bank or an Affiliate of a Bank or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Bank's Commitment, the amount of the Commitment of the assigning Bank subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Acceptance with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Agent) shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Borrower and the Agent otherwise consent, that no such consent of the
provided
 
     Borrower shall be required if an Event of Default under clause (b), (c), (g) or (h) of Article VIII has occurred and is continuing;
          (B) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Bank's rights and obligations under this Agreement, that this clause shall not apply to rights in respect of outstanding Competitive Loans;
provided
          (C) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Agent an Assignment and Acceptance, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500;
          (D) the assignee, if it shall not be a Bank, shall deliver to the Agent an Administrative Questionnaire; and
          (E) in the case of an assignment to a CLO (as defined below), the assigning Bank shall retain the sole right to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, that the Assignment and Acceptance between such Bank and such CLO may provide that such Bank will not, without the consent of such CLO, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to Section 10.08(b) that affects such CLO.
provided
          For the purposes of this Section 10.04(b), the terms "Approved Fund" and "CLO" have the following meanings:
          "" means (a) a CLO and (b) with respect to any Bank that is a fund which invests in bank loans and similar extensions of credit, any other fund that invests in bank loans and similar extensions of credit and is managed by the same investment advisor as such Bank or by an Affiliate of such investment advisor.
Approved Fund
          "" means any entity (whether a corporation, partnership, trust or otherwise) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and is administered or managed by a Bank or an Affiliate of such Bank.
CLO
     (iii) Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to paragraph (b)(iv) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Bank under this Agreement, and the assigning Bank thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all of the assigning Bank's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Bank shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.15, 2.17, 2.21 and 10.05). Any assignment or transfer by a Bank of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this Section 10.04 shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Bank of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section.
 
     (iv) The Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Banks, and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loans owing to, each Bank pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Agent and the Banks may treat each person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Bank hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Bank, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
     (v) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Bank and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Bank hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the Agent shall accept such Assignment and Acceptance and record the information contained therein in the Register. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
          (c) (i) Any Bank may, without the consent of the Borrower or the Agent, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "") in all or a portion of such Bank's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); that (A) such Bank's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (B) such Bank shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (C) the Borrower, the Agent and the other Banks shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Bank in connection with such Bank's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Bank sells such a participation shall provide that such Bank shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Bank will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to Section 10.08(b) that affects such Participant. Subject to paragraph (c)(ii) of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.15, 2.17 and 2.21 to the same extent as if it were a Bank and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 10.06 as though it were a Bank, provided such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.19 as though it were a Bank.
Participant
provided
provided
     (ii) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 2.15 or 2.21 than the applicable Bank would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Non-U.S. Bank if it were a Bank shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.21 unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with Section 2.21(g) as though it were a Bank.
 
          (b) Any Bank may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Bank, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Bank from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Bank as a party hereto.
provided
          Section 10.05. . (a) The Borrower agrees to pay all reasonable and actual fees, charges and disbursements of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, counsel for the Agent, incurred by the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or in connection with any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions hereby contemplated shall be consummated) and all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agent or any Bank in connection with the enforcement or protection of their rights in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including, in connection with any such enforcement or protection, the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Agent or any Bank. The Borrower further agrees that it shall indemnify the Banks from and hold them harmless against any documentary taxes, assessments or charges made by any Governmental Authority by reason of the execution and delivery of this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents.
Expenses; Indemnity
          (b) The Borrower agrees to indemnify the Agent, each Bank and each of their respective directors, officers, employees and agents (each such person being called an "Indemnitee") against, and to hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, costs, actions, suits, obligations, penalties, judgments, claims, damages, liabilities, taxes and related expenses, including reasonable counsel fees, charges and disbursements (irrespective of whether the Agent or any Bank is a party to the action for which indemnification hereunder is sought), incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in any way connected with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated thereby, the performance by the parties thereto of their respective obligations thereunder or the consummation of the Transactions and the other transactions contemplated thereby, (ii) the use of the proceeds of the Loans or (iii) any claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether or not any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, costs, actions, suits, obligations, penalties, judgments, claims, damages, liabilities, taxes or related expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from (A) in the case of the Agent or any Bank, any unexcused breach by the Agent or such Bank of any of its obligations under this Agreement or (B) the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee.
provided
          (c) The provisions of this Section 10.05 shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of the expiration of the term of this Agreement, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of any of the Loans, the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or any investigation made by or on behalf of the Agent or any Bank. All amounts due under this Section 10.05 shall be payable on written demand therefor.
 
          (d) Any Bank may at any time assign all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such assignment shall release a Bank from any of its obligations hereunder.
provided
          Section 10.06. . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Bank is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Bank to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any of and all the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement and other Loan Documents held by such Bank, irrespective of whether or not such Bank shall have made any demand under this Agreement or such other Loan Document and although such obligations may be unmatured. The rights of each Bank under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of Setoff) which such Bank may have.
Rights of Setoff
          . THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Section 10.07.
APPLICABLE LAW
          Section 10.08. . (a) No failure or delay of the Agent or any Bank in exercising any power or right hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Agent and the Banks hereunder and under the other Loan Documents are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies which they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph (b) below, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. No notice or demand on the Borrower in any case shall entitle the Borrower to any other or further notice or demand in similar or other circumstances.
Waivers; Amendment
          (b) Neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Agent, the Borrower and the Required Banks; , , that no such agreement shall (i) decrease the principal amount of, or extend the maturity of or any scheduled principal payment date or date for the payment of any interest on any Loan, or waive or excuse any such payment of or any part thereof, or decrease the rate of interest on any Loan, without the prior written consent of each Bank affected thereby, (ii) change or extend the Commitment or decrease the Facility Fees of any Bank without the prior written consent of such Bank, or (iii) amend or modify the provisions of Section 2.18, the provisions of this Section, or the definition of "Required Banks", without the prior written consent of each Bank; that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Agent hereunder without the prior written consent of the Agent; that no such agreement shall amend, modify or waive any provision of Article III without the written consent of each Issuing Bank.
provided
however
provided
further
provided
further
 
          Section 10.09. . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if at any time the applicable interest rate, together with all fees and charges which are treated as interest under applicable law (collectively the "Charges"), as provided for herein or in any other document executed in connection herewith, or otherwise contracted for, charged, received, taken or reserved by any Bank, shall exceed the maximum lawful rate (the "Maximum Rate") which may be contracted for, charged, taken, received or reserved by such Bank in accordance with applicable law, the rate of interest payable hereunder, together with all Charges payable to such Bank, shall be limited to the Maximum Rate.
Interest Rate Limitation
          Section 10.10. . This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract between the parties relative to the subject matter hereof. Any previous agreement among the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof is superseded by this Agreement and the other Loan Documents. Nothing in this Agreement or in the other Loan Documents, expressed or implied, is intended to confer upon any party other than the parties hereto and thereto any rights, remedies, obligations or liabilities under or by reason of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents.
Entire Agreement
          Section 10.11. . Each party hereto hereby waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any right it may have to a trial by jury in respect of any litigation directly or indirectly arising out of, under or in connection with this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents. Each party hereto (a) certifies that no representative, agent or attorney of any other party has represented, expressly or otherwise, that such other party would not, in the event of litigation, seek to enforce the foregoing waiver and (b) acknowledges that it and the other parties hereto have been induced to enter into this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, as applicable, by, among other things, the mutual waivers and certifications in this Section 10.11.
Waiver of Jury Trial
          Section 10.12. . In the event any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement or in any other Loan Document should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein and therein shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. The parties shall endeavor in good-faith negotiations to replace the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible so that of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions.
Severability
          Section 10.13. . This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original but all of which when taken together shall constitute but one contract, and shall become effective as provided in Section 10.03.
Counterparts
          Section 10.14. . Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and are not to affect the construction of, or to be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
Headings
          Section 10.15. . (a) The Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any New York State court or Federal court of the United States of America sitting
Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process
 
in New York City, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdiction by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that any Bank may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the other Loan Documents against the Borrower or its properties in the courts of any jurisdiction.
          (b) The Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this agreement or the other Loan Documents in any New York State or Federal court. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
          (c) Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 10.01. Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
          Section 10.16. . (a) Each Bank agrees to keep confidential (and to cause its respective officers, directors, employees, agents and representatives to keep confidential) the Information (as defined below), except that any Bank shall be permitted to disclose Information (i) to such of its officers, directors, employees, agents and representatives (including outside counsel) as need to know such Information; (ii) to the extent required by applicable laws and regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, or requested by any bank regulatory authority (provided that such Bank shall, except (A) as prohibited by law and (B) for Information requested by any such bank regulatory authority, promptly notify Borrower of the circumstances and content of each such disclosure and shall request confidential treatment of any information so disclosed); (iii) to the extent such Information (A) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Agreement, (B) becomes available to such Bank on a non-confidential basis from a source other than the Borrower or its Affiliates or (C) was available to such Bank on a non-confidential basis prior to its disclosure to such Bank by the Borrower or its Affiliates; or (iv) to the extent the Borrower shall have consented to such disclosure in writing. As used in this Section 10.16, as to any Bank, "Information" shall mean any financial statements, materials, documents and other information that the Borrower or any of its Affiliates may have furnished or made available or may hereafter furnish or make available to the Agent or any Bank in connection with this Agreement or any other materials prepared by any such person from any of the foregoing.
Confidentiality
          Section 10.17. . Each Bank which is subject to Section 326 of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the "Act"), hereby notifies the Borrower that, pursuant to the requirements of the Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes
USA Patriot Act
 
the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Bank to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Borrower, the Agent and the Banks have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
CINCINNATI, July 1, 2008  Scripps Networks Interactive Inc. began operations today as a separate publicly traded company upon the successful completion of its separation from The E.W. Scripps Company.
An executive team from Scripps Networks Interactive led by Chairman, President and CEO Kenneth W. Lowe will Ring the Opening Bell at the New York Stock Exchange to inaugurate the company's first official day of listing on the NYSE. The company will also be listed in the S&P 500 index.
SM
With the bell ringing, regular way trading begins for Scripps Networks Interactive under the ticker symbol "SNI" and continues separately for The E.W. Scripps Company under the ticker symbol "SSP."
"This is a tremendously exciting day for all of us at Scripps Networks Interactive following not only months of planning for this day, but the culmination of a vision we had 14 years ago of creating a television network devoted to the home," Lowe said. "HGTV was born, and building on its success, we've assembled a valuable portfolio of lifestyle media businesses, including Food Network, and interactive services that have made an indelible impression on media consumers everywhere. We begin our exciting journey as a new, independent company focused purely on growing these businesses."
Holders of the controlling class of Scripps Common Voting Shares, the Edward W. Scripps Trust, approved the separation of Scripps Networks Interactive from The E. W. Scripps Company (Scripps) during Scripps' annual shareholder meeting on June 13 in Cincinnati. The E. W. Scripps Company's board of directors in October 2007 authorized management to pursue a separation of Scripps into two companies; one focused on national and global lifestyle media and interactive services, and the other on market-leading local media franchises.
 
Effective today, a tax-free distribution was made of Scripps Networks Interactive stock to Scripps shareholders. Scripps shareholders continue to own stock in both companies.
All shareholders of record (as of June 16) receive one share of Scripps Networks Interactive stock for each share of stock they own in The E. W. Scripps Company.
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements related to the company's businesses, including the separation, that are based on management's current expectations. Forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, trends and uncertainties, including changes in advertising demand and other economic conditions that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. The company's written policy on forward-looking statements can be found on page 23 of its Form 10 registration statement filed in June 2008. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date the statement is made.
Forward-Looking Statements
Scripps Networks Interactive Inc. is the leading developer of lifestyle-oriented content for television and the Internet, where on-air programming is complemented with online video, social media areas and e-commerce components on companion Web sites and broadband vertical channels. The company's media portfolio includes: Lifestyle Media, with popular lifestyle television and Internet brands HGTV, Food Network, DIY Network, Fine Living Network and country music network Great American Country (GAC); and Interactive Services, with leading online search and comparison shopping services, Shopzilla and uSwitch.
About Scripps Networks Interactive


