FILE:SNI/SNI-8K-20090224160736.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) On February 19, 2009, the Board of Directors, upon recommendation of the Nominating and Governance Committee, appointed Michael Costa as a member of the Board, effective as of that day. Mr. Costa fills a newly-added position on the Board and will be up for election at our annual shareholders meeting in 2009. As of the date of this report, Mr. Costa has not been named to any committee of the Board. Mr. Costa was not selected as a director pursuant to any arrangement or understanding with any other person, and does not have any reportable transactions under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Mr. Costa will receive the Company's standard compensation applicable to nonemployee directors.
(e) On February 19, 2009, the Company amended certain executive compensation arrangements for its named executive officers. The amendments are summarized below:
Employment Agreement
The Board of Directors amended the employment agreement of Kenneth W. Lowe, the Company's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, to (i) extend the term from June 30, 2010 to June 30, 2011; and (ii) eliminate accelerated vesting of future time-based restricted share grants upon his "early retirement" or "normal retirement."
Executive Change in Control Plan
The Board of Directors amended and restated the Executive Change in Control Plan to (i) revise the golden parachute tax gross-up provision, so that it applies to both single trigger benefits (accelerated vesting of equity awards) and double trigger benefits ( cash severance under the plan); (ii) provide for a "modified gross-up" for the golden parachute excise and related taxes, so that the tax gross-up will be available only if the aggregate parachute value of all severance and other change in control payments to the executive exceeds 110% of the maximum amount that may be paid under Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code without imposition of an excise tax; and (iii) add non-competition, non-disparagement and confidentiality restrictions to the plan.
e.g.,
e.g.,
Form of Award Agreements
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved the form of award agreements for grants of nonqualified stock options and performance-based restricted stock units under the Company's 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The foregoing descriptions of the amendments and form of award agreements are only summaries. The full text of the amendments and form of award agreements are included as exhibits to this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 24, 2009

Exhibit 10.1
The Employment Agreement dated June 16, 2003 between Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc., as successor to The E. W. Scripps Company, and Kenneth W. Lowe, as amended (the "Agreement") is further amended, effective February 19, 2009, as follows:
1. Paragraph 2(a) of the Agreement is hereby amended by replacing, where appropriate, the date "June 30, 2010" with the date "June 30, 2011".
2. The Agreement is hereby amended by adding a new Paragraph 28 to the end thereof as follows:
"28. . Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, no provision of this Agreement is intended to override Section 11(a) of the Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan, and accordingly, any provision in the Agreement that would otherwise provided for accelerated vesting of time-based restricted shares upon the Early Retirement or Normal Retirement of Executive will be deemed to not include time-based restricted shares granted to Executive on or after February 19, 2009."
2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan
3. Except as explicitly set forth herein, the Agreement will remain in full force and effect.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc.
Executive Change in Control Plan
(as amended and restated on February     , 2009)
 
Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc., an Ohio corporation ("Company"), adopted the Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. Executive Change in Control Plan ("Plan"), effective immediately prior to the Distribution Date as defined in the Employee Matters Agreement by and between The E. W. Scripps Company and the Company (the "Effective Date").
The Plan generally provides for certain potential termination payments and other benefits for covered executives if their employment terminates under prescribed circumstances after a change in control, all as specifically described in the following provisions of the Plan. The Company believes that it will derive substantial benefits by adopting the Plan because its existence will:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of this Section 2.3, has the meaning provided in section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (), and as used in sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act, including a "group" within the meaning of section 13(d) of the Exchange Act; and and have the meanings provided in Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act.
"Person"
"Exchange Act"
"Beneficial Ownership"
"Beneficial Owner"
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A termination of a Covered Executive's employment by a Covered Executive shall not be deemed to be for Good Reason unless (1) the Covered Executive gives notice to the Company of the existence of the event or condition constituting Good Reason within thirty (30) days after such event or condition initially occurs or exists, (2) the Company fails to cure such event or condition within thirty (30) days after receiving such notice, and (3) Executive's "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code occurs not later than ninety (90) days after such event or condition initially occurs or exists (or, if earlier, the last day of the 24-month period following a Change in Control).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An individual must be a Covered Executive in order to participate in the Plan. The names of all Covered Executives are listed in Appendix A. The Committee may revise Appendix A at any time(s) by adding or deleting names (or changing Termination Pay Multiples), provided that the deletion of any name (or reduction of any Termination Pay Multiple) shall require sixty (60) days' advance written notice to each affected Covered Executive. Only those employees listed in Appendix A at the time of a Change in Control are eligible to receive any rights, termination payment or other benefits under the Plan.
 
Upon a Change in Control, the terms of the Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan (or any successor plan) and the applicable award agreements shall govern the treatment of all outstanding equity awards of a Covered Executive, including but not limited to any incentive or nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights in tandem with or independent of options (, restricted or nonrestricted share awards, performance-based restricted shares, restricted stock units and performance units.
"SARs")
 
 
 
 
 
As used herein, the following terms have the following meanings:
 
 
 
 
 
 
As used herein, the following terms have the following meanings:
 
 
 
For purposes of this Section 5.4, is the excess, if any, of:
"Pension Enhancement"
 
 
In calculating the Pension Enhancement, the same actuarial assumptions and factors shall be used as are prescribed under the Pension Plan for computing lump sum benefit payments.
 
(a) If it is determined (as hereinafter provided) that any payment, benefit or distribution to or for such Covered Executive's benefit, whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of the Plan or otherwise pursuant to or by reason of any other agreement, policy, plan, program, arrangement or similar right (a ), would be subject to the
"Payment"
 
 
excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code (or any successor provision thereto), or any interest or penalties with respect to such excise tax (such tax, together with any such interest and penalties, hereafter collectively referred to as the ), then the Covered Executive shall be entitled to receive a cash lump sum payment (a ) in an amount such that, after payment by the Covered Executive of all taxes (including any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including any Excise Tax, imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment(s), the Covered Executive retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment(s) equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section, if it shall be determined that the Covered Executive is entitled to the Gross-Up Payment, but that the Parachute Value (as defined below) of all Payments does not exceed 110% of the Safe Harbor Amount (as defined below), then no Gross-Up Payment shall be made to the Covered Executive and the amounts payable under this Plan shall be reduced so that the Parachute Value of all Payments, in the aggregate, equals the Safe Harbor Amount. The reduction of the amounts payable hereunder, if applicable, shall be made by first reducing the payments under Section 5.2, and then any payments due under Section 5.4, and then any benefits due under Section 5.3 (with benefits or payments in any group having different payment terms being reduced on a pro-rata basis). For purposes of reducing the Payments to the Safe Harbor Amount, only amounts payable under the Sections of this Plan identified in the immediately preceding sentence (and no other Payments) shall be reduced. If the reduction of the amount payable under this Plan would not result in a reduction of the Parachute Value of all Payments to the Safe Harbor Amount, no amounts payable under the Plan shall be reduced pursuant to this Section. Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, the Company's obligations under this Section shall not be conditioned upon the Covered Executive's termination of employment. By way of example, in the event of a Change in Control which does not result in a Covered Executive's termination of employment or entitlement to a Termination Payment under this Plan, but which causes the accelerated vesting of such Covered Executive's stock options under a separate plan giving rise to an Excise Tax, the Company's obligations under this Section shall apply with respect to such accelerated vesting.
"Excise Tax"
"Gross-Up Payment"
(b) The Gross-Up Payment, if any, shall be paid in full to the Covered Executive at the same time as any Payment (or first installment thereof) subject to the Excise Tax is paid or provided to the Covered Executive; provided that the Company, in its sole discretion, may withhold and pay over to the Internal Revenue Service or any other applicable taxing authority, for the benefit of the Covered Executive, all or any portion of any Gross-Up Payment, and the Covered Executive consents to such withholding.
(c) All determinations required to be made under this Section 5.5, including whether an Excise Tax is payable by the Covered Executive, the amount of such Excise Tax, whether a Gross-Up Payment is required and the amount of such Gross-Up Payment, whether and in what amount any Payments
 
 
are to be reduced pursuant to the second sentence of Section 5.5(a), and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by a nationally-recognized legal or accounting firm (the ) (which may be the Company's independent auditor) selected by the Company in its sole discretion. The Firm shall submit its determination and detailed supporting calculations to the Covered Executive and the Company as promptly as practicable. If the Firm determines that any Excise Tax is payable by the Covered Executive and that a Gross-Up Payment is required, the Company shall pay the Covered Executive the required Gross-Up Payment as provided herein. Any determination by the Firm shall be binding upon the Covered Executive and the Company. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code (or any successor provision thereto) at the time of the initial determination by the Firm hereunder, it is possible that the Company may fail to pay a Gross-Up Payment which should have been paid (an ). If the Covered Executive thereafter is required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment, if any, that has occurred and submit its determination and detailed supporting calculations to the Covered Executive and the Company as promptly as possible. Any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to the Covered Executive, or for his/her benefit, within thirty (30) days of receipt of such determination and calculations.
"Firm"
"Underpayment"
(d) The Covered Executive and the Company shall each provide the Firm access to and copies of any books, records or documents in the possession of the Company or the Covered Executive, as the case may be, reasonably requested by the Firm, and shall each otherwise cooperate with the Firm in connection with the preparation and issuance of the determinations contemplated by this Section 5.5. The fees and expenses of the Firm that are incurred at any time from the date of this Plan through 10th anniversary of the date of the Change in Control for services in connection with the determinations and calculations contemplated by this Section 5.5 shall be paid by the Company. The Company shall pay such fees and expenses not later than the end of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the related work is performed or the expenses are incurred by the Firm. The amount of such fees and expenses that the Company is obligated to pay in any given calendar year shall not affect the fees and expenses that the Company is obligated to pay in any other calendar year, and the Covered Executive's right to have the Company pay such fees and expenses may not be liquidated or exchanged for any other benefit.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 5.5 to the contrary, and in order to comply with Section 409A of the Code, the Company and the Covered Executive shall take all steps reasonably necessary to ensure that any Gross-Up Payment, Underpayment or other payment or reimbursement made to the Covered Executive pursuant to this Section 5.5 will be paid or reimbursed on the earlier of (i) the date specified for payment under this Section 5.5, or (ii) December 31st of the year following the year in which the applicable taxes are remitted or, in the case of reimbursement of expenses incurred due to
 
 
a tax audit or litigation to which there is no remittance of taxes, the end of the calendar year following the year in which the audit is completed or there is a final and nonappealable settlement or other resolution of the litigation in accordance with Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(1)(v).
(f) The following terms shall have the following meanings for purposes of this Section.
(i) "Parachute Value" of a Payment shall mean the present value as of the date of the Change in Control for purposes of Section 280G of the Code of the portion of such Payment that constitutes a "parachute payment" under Section 280G(b)(2), as determined by the Firm for purposes of determining whether and to what extent the Excise Tax will apply to such Payment. The present value of a Payment shall mean the economic present value of a Payment as of the date of the Change in Control for purposes of Section 280G of the Code, as determined by the Firm using the discount rate required by Section 280G(d)(4) of the Code.
(ii) The "Safe Harbor Amount" means 2.99 times the Covered Executive's "base amount," within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding any contrary provision of the Plan, there shall be no duplication of rights, payments and benefits under the Plan with rights, payments and benefits granted to a Covered Executive, in the event of a termination of his/her employment after a Change in Control, under any other agreement, plan or arrangement (). In order to prevent such duplication, if the Covered Executive is entitled to payments or benefits under Article 5 upon termination of employment, the Covered Executive shall not be entitled to any severance pay or benefits under any Alternate Plan unless otherwise specifically provided in this Plan or in the Alternative Plan (in a specific reference to this Plan). Notwithstanding the foregoing, any payments due under the Executive Annual Incentive Plan upon a Covered Executive's termination of employment following a Change in Control shall be in addition to (and shall not be considered duplicative of) any payments or benefits provided under this Plan.
"Alternate Plan"
 
 
All payments required under the terms of the Plan shall be paid in cash from the general assets of the Company. A Covered Executive shall have the status of a general creditor of the Company with respect to any and all claims for payments under the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to the Plan that cannot be resolved pursuant to Section 9.2 shall be settled by binding arbitration in the City of Cincinnati, Ohio, in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association then pertaining in such city; and judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator or arbitrators may be entered in any court in Hamilton County, Ohio having jurisdiction thereof. The arbitrator or arbitrators shall have powers to issue mandatory orders and restraining orders in connection with such arbitration. Neither the Company nor a Covered Executive shall be liable for punitive or exemplary damages. Each party shall be responsible for its/his/her own costs and expenses (including attorneys' fees). The federal and state courts in Hamilton County, Ohio shall have exclusive jurisdiction with respect to the entry of judgment upon any arbitration award hereunder or the granting of any order; and such courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction with respect to any other controversy or claim arising out of or relating to the Plan that may properly be brought therein if the provisions herein mandating arbitration are held to be unenforceable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be required to seek or participate in arbitration regarding any breach or threatened breach by a Covered Executive of his or her obligations under Article 6 hereof, but may pursue its remedies for such breach in a court of competent jurisdiction in Hamilton County, Ohio.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
Summary of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Grant
Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. (the "Company"), grants to the Grantee named below, in accordance with the terms of the Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") and this Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (the "Agreement"), the contingent right to receive the Target Number of Stock Units set forth below:
 
Terms of Agreement
. Subject to and upon the terms, conditions, and restrictions set forth in this Agreement and in the Plan, the Company hereby grants to the Grantee as of the Grant Date this Performance Award (the "Performance Award"), which represents the contingent right to receive the Target Number of Stock Units (the "Restricted Stock Units") set forth above.
1. Grant of Award
.
2. Performance Goal; Determinations and Adjustments
(a) The Grantee's right to receive a credit of all, a portion, or a multiple of the Target Number of Stock Units shall be contingent upon the extent to which the Company achieves the Performance Goal set forth above for the Performance Period set forth above, in accordance with the performance schedule attached as an exhibit to this Agreement (the "Performance Matrix").
(b) All determinations involving the Performance Goal shall be based on Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") in effect at the time the objectives are established without regard to any change in accounting standards that may be required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board after the objectives are established and shall exclude extraordinary items as determined by the Company's independent auditors in accordance with GAAP.
(c) If the Committee determines that a change in the business, operations, corporate structure or capital structure of the Company, the manner in which it conducts business or other events or circumstances render the Performance Goal to be unsuitable, the Committee
may modify the Performance Goal or the related levels of achievement, in whole or in part, as the Committee deems appropriate; provided, however, that no such action may result in the loss of the otherwise available exemption of the award under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").
.
3. Credit of Restricted Stock Units
(a) After the end of the Performance Period, the Committee shall determine in writing the extent, if any, to which the Performance Goal has been satisfied and shall determine the number, if any, of Restricted Stock Units that shall be credited to a book entry account established for the Grantee. Each Restricted Stock Unit credited on behalf of the Grantee under this Section 3 shall represent the contingent right to receive one Class A Common Share of the Company ("Share") and shall at all times be equal in value to one Share.
(i) If, upon the conclusion of the Performance Period, the Company achieves less than             % of the Performance Goal, then the Grantee shall not receive a credit of any Restricted Stock Units and this Agreement shall terminate immediately without further action or notice.
(ii) If, upon the conclusion of the Performance Period, the Company achieves at least             % of the Performance Goal but less than             % of the Performance Goal, then the Grantee shall be credited with a number of Restricted Stock Units, effective on the last business day of the second calendar month immediately following the end of the Performance Period (the "Crediting Date"), equal to the product of (A) the Target Number of Stock Units set forth above, multiplied by (B) the applicable payout percentage set forth on the Performance Matrix.
(iii) If, upon the conclusion of the Performance Period, the Company achieves             % or more of the Performance Goal, then the Grantee shall be credited with a number of Restricted Stock Units, effective on the Crediting Date, equal to the product of (A) the Target Number of Stock Units set forth above, multiplied by (B)            % (with the resulting product rounded to the nearest whole number).
(b) Except as otherwise provided in Section 7 hereof, the Target Number of Stock Units shall be forfeited automatically without further action or notice (i) in the event that the Target Number of Stock Units are not earned pursuant to the Performance Matrix, and (ii) in the event the Grantee ceases to be employed by the Company or a Subsidiary through the end of the Performance Period. The Target Number of Stock Units are also subject to the forfeiture provisions set forth in Section 11 of the Plan (with the resulting product rounded to the nearest whole number).
.
4. Vesting of Restricted Stock Units
(a) The Restricted Stock Units, if any, credited to the Grantee pursuant to Section 3 hereof for the Performance Period shall vest if the Grantee shall have remained in the continuous service of the Company or a Subsidiary through the vesting dates set forth below (each a "Vesting Date") with respect to the percentage of Restricted Stock Units set forth next to such date (rounded down to the next whole number):
 
(b) Notwithstanding Section 4(a), the Restricted Stock Units credited to the Grantee that have not yet vested under Section 4(a) shall immediately vest if, during the period beginning immediately after the end of the Performance Period and ending immediately prior to the last Vesting Date (such period, the "Vesting Period"): (i) the Grantee ceases to be employed with the Company and its Subsidiaries by reason of death or Disability; (ii) the Grantee terminates employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries as a result of his Retirement; or (iii) a Change in Control occurs while the Grantee is employed by the Company or any Subsidiary.
(c) For purposes of Section 3(b) and this Section 4, the continuous employment of the Grantee with the Company and its Subsidiaries shall not be deemed to have been interrupted, and the Grantee shall not be deemed to have ceased to be an employee of the Company and its Subsidiaries, by reason of the transfer of his employment among the Company and its Subsidiaries.
. The Restricted Stock Units credited to the Grantee that have not yet vested pursuant to Section 4 (including without limitation any right to dividend equivalents described in Section 9 hereof relating to dividends payable on or after the date of forfeiture) shall be forfeited automatically without further action or notice if the Grantee ceases to be employed by the Company or a Subsidiary prior to the applicable Vesting Date other than as provided in Section 4(b) or Section 7. The Restricted Stock Units are also subject to the forfeiture provisions set forth in Section 11 of the Plan.
5. Forfeiture of Restricted Stock Units
.
6. Payment of Restricted Stock Units
(a) Except as may be otherwise provided in this Section or Section 7, the Company shall deliver to the Grantee (or the Grantee's estate in the event of death) the Shares underlying the vested Restricted Stock Units within seventy (70) days after the date that they become vested in accordance with Section 4.
(b) To the extent that the Grantee would satisfy the definition of Retirement upon termination of employment (the Grantee is "Retirement-eligible") on the Grant Date or could become Retirement-eligible during the Performance Period or the Vesting Period, or the Grantee's right to receive payment of the Restricted Stock Units otherwise constitutes a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, then notwithstanding Section 6(a), the Shares underlying the Restricted Stock Units that become vested pursuant to Section 4(b) or Section 7(b) hereof shall be delivered to the Grantee (or the Grantee's estate in the event of death) within seventy (70) days after the earlier of (i) the first business day that is more than
i.e.,
 
six months after the date of the Grantee's "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code (or, if the Grantee dies during such six-month period, within seventy (70) days after the Grantee's death); (ii) the occurrence of a "change in the ownership," a "change in the effective control" or a "change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets" of the Company within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code; or (iii) the Vesting Date next following the date that the Restricted Stock Units become vested pursuant to Section 4(b) or Section 7(b).
(c) The Company's obligations with respect to the Restricted Stock Units shall be satisfied in full upon the delivery of the Shares underlying the vested Restricted Stock Units.
.
7. Impact of Certain Events During the Performance Period
(a) Except as provided in Section 7(b), if the Grantee ceases to be an employee of the Company or one of its Subsidiaries due to death, Disability or Retirement prior to the end of the Performance Period, Grantee (or Grantee's representative) shall be credited, in accordance with Section 3, a number of Restricted Stock Units that the Grantee would have received had he or she remained employed with the Company through the end of the Performance Period, prorated for the number of days during the Performance Period that the Grantee was employed by the Company or a Subsidiary (and rounded down to the next whole number). Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 4 or Section 6(b) to the contrary, the Restricted Stock Units credited pursuant to this Section 7(a) shall be fully vested and shall be paid, in their entirety, within seventy (70) days after the end of the Performance Period; provided that if the Grantee is "Retirement-eligible" on the Grant Date or could become Retirement-eligible during the Performance Period or the Vesting Period, or the Grantee's right to receive payment of the Restricted Stock Units otherwise constitutes a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, then the Restricted Stock Units credited pursuant to this Section 7(a) will be paid within seventy (70) days after the earlier of (i) the end of the Performance Period, or (ii) the occurrence of a "change in the ownership," a "change in the effective control" or a "change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets" of the Company within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.
(b) In the event that a Change in Control occurs during the Performance Period, then, notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the Grantee shall be credited with a number of Restricted Stock Units equal to the Target Number of Stock Units and the Crediting Date shall be deemed to be the date immediately prior to the Change in Control; provided that the Grantee either (i) was employed by the Company or a subsidiary immediately prior to the Change in Control, or (ii) ceased to be an employee of the Company and its Subsidiaries due to death, Disability or Retirement during the Performance Period and prior to the date of the Change in Control. Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 4 to the contrary, the Restricted Stock Units credited pursuant to this Section 7(b) shall be fully vested and shall be paid, in their entirety, within thirty (30) days following the Change in Control; provided that if the Grantee is "Retirement-eligible" on the Grant Date or could become Retirement-eligible during the Performance Period or the Vesting Period, or the Grantee's right to receive payment of the Restricted Stock Units otherwise constitutes a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, then the Restricted Stock Units credited pursuant to this Section 7(b) will be paid as provided in Section 6(b).
 
. The Grantee shall not possess any incidents of ownership (including, without limitation, dividend and voting rights) in the Shares underlying the Performance Award or the Restricted Stock Units credited to his or her account until such Shares have been delivered to the Grantee in accordance with Section 6 or Section 7 hereof. The obligations of the Company under this Agreement will be merely that of an unfunded and unsecured promise of the Company to deliver Shares in the future, and the rights of the Grantee will be no greater than that of an unsecured general creditor. No assets of the Company will be held or set aside as security for the obligations of the Company under this Agreement.
8. Dividend, Voting and Other Rights
. From and after the Crediting Date until the earlier of (a) the time when the Restricted Stock Units are paid in accordance with Section 6 or Section 7 hereof or (b) the time when the Grantee's right to payment of the Restricted Stock Units is forfeited in accordance with Section 5 hereof, on the date that the Company pays a cash dividend (if any) to holders of Shares generally, the Grantee shall be entitled to a cash amount equal to the product of (i) the dollar amount of the cash dividend paid per Share on such date and (ii) the total number of unpaid Restricted Stock Units credited to the Grantee as of such date (the "Dividend Equivalent"). The Dividend Equivalent shall be paid to the Grantee at the same time that the related dividend is paid to the holders of Shares. Dividend Equivalents will be subject to any required withholding for federal, state, local, foreign or other taxes.
9. Payment of Dividend Equivalents
. Neither this Performance Award nor the Restricted Stock Units may be transferred, assigned, pledged or hypothecated in any manner, or be subject to execution, attachment or similar process, by operation of law or otherwise, unless otherwise provided under the Plan. Any purported transfer or encumbrance in violation of the provisions of this Section 10 shall be void, and the other party to any such purported transaction shall not obtain any rights to or interest in such Performance Award or Restricted Stock Units.
10. Transferability
. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall confer upon the Grantee any right with respect to continuance of employment by the Company and its Subsidiaries, nor limit or affect in any manner the right of the Company and its Subsidiaries to terminate the employment or adjust the compensation of the Grantee.
11. No Employment Contract
. Any economic or other benefit to the Grantee under this Agreement or the Plan shall not be taken into account in determining any benefits to which the Grantee may be entitled under any profit-sharing, retirement or other benefit or compensation plan maintained by the Company or a Subsidiary and shall not affect the amount of any life insurance coverage available to any beneficiary under any life insurance plan covering employees of the Company or a Subsidiary.
12. Relation to Other Benefits
. To the extent the Company or any Subsidiary is required to withhold any federal, state, local, foreign or other taxes in connection with the delivery of Shares under this Agreement, then the Company or Subsidiary (as applicable) shall retain a number of Shares otherwise deliverable hereunder with a value equal to the required withholding (based on the Closing Price of the Shares on the date of delivery); provided that in no event shall the value of the Shares retained exceed the minimum amount of taxes required to be withheld or such other amount that will not result in a negative accounting impact. If the
13. Taxes and Withholding
 
Company or any Subsidiary is required to withhold any federal, state, local or other taxes at any time other than upon delivery of the Shares under this Agreement (for example, if Grantee is Retirement-eligible on the Grant Date or could become Retirement-eligible during the Performance Period or the Vesting Period), then the Company or Subsidiary (as applicable) shall have the right in its sole discretion to (a) require the Grantee to pay or provide for payment of the required tax withholding, or (b) deduct the required tax withholding from any amount of salary, bonus, incentive compensation or other amounts otherwise payable in cash to the Grantee (other than deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code).
. The number and kind of Shares deliverable pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units are subject to adjustment as provided in Section 16 of the Plan.
14. Adjustments
. The Company shall make reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable federal and state securities laws and listing requirements with respect to the Restricted Stock Units; , , notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, and only to the extent permitted under Section 409A of the Code, the Company shall not be obligated to deliver any Shares pursuant to this Agreement if the delivery thereof would result in a violation of any such law or listing requirement.
15. Compliance with Law
provided
however
. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee may modify this Agreement upon written notice to the Grantee. Any amendment to the Plan shall be deemed to be an amendment to this Agreement to the extent that the amendment is applicable hereto. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amendment of the Plan or this Agreement shall adversely affect the rights of the Grantee under this Agreement without the Grantee's consent unless the Committee determines, in good faith, that such amendment is required for the Agreement to either be exempt from the application of, or comply with, the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, or as otherwise may provided in the Plan.
16. Amendments
. In the event that one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall be invalidated for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, any provision so invalidated shall be deemed to be separable from the other provisions hereof, and the remaining provisions hereof shall continue to be valid and fully enforceable.
17. Severability
. This Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, including the forfeiture provisions of Section 11 of the Plan. This Agreement and the Plan contain the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter contained in this Agreement, and supersede all prior written or oral communications, representations and negotiations in respect thereto. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, the Plan shall govern. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Plan. The Committee acting pursuant to the Plan, as constituted from time to time, shall, except as expressly provided otherwise herein, have the right to determine any questions which arise in connection with the grant of the Restricted Stock Units.
18. Relation to Plan
. Without limiting Section 10, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the successors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives and assigns of the Grantee, and the successors and assigns of the Company.
19. Successors and Assigns
 
. The interpretation, performance, and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws thereof.
20. Governing Law
. Information about the Grantee and the Grantee's participation in the Plan may be collected, recorded and held, used and disclosed for any purpose related to the administration of the Plan. The Grantee understands that such processing of this information may need to be carried out by the Company and its Subsidiaries and by third party administrators whether such persons are located within the Grantee's country or elsewhere, including the United States of America. The Grantee consents to the processing of information relating to the Grantee and the Grantee's participation in the Plan in any one or more of the ways referred to above.
21. Use of Grantee's Information
. The Grantee hereby consents and agrees to electronic delivery of any documents that the Company may elect to deliver (including, but not limited to, prospectuses, prospectus supplements, grant or award notifications and agreements, account statements, annual and quarterly reports, and all other forms of communications) in connection with this and any other award made or offered under the Plan. The Grantee understands that, unless earlier revoked by the Grantee by giving written notice to the Secretary of the Company, this consent shall be effective for the duration of the Agreement. The Grantee also understands that he or she shall have the right at any time to request that the Company deliver written copies of any and all materials referred to above at no charge. The Grantee hereby consents to any and all procedures the Company has established or may establish for an electronic signature system for delivery and acceptance of any such documents that the Company may elect to deliver, and agrees that his or her electronic signature is the same as, and shall have the same force and effect as, his or her manual signature. The Grantee consents and agrees that any such procedures and delivery may be effected by a third party engaged by the Company to provide administrative services related to the Plan.
22. Electronic Delivery
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed on its behalf by its duly authorized officer and the Grantee has also executed this Agreement, as of the Grant Date.
 
You must indicate you acceptance of this Agreement by singing below no later than                     , 2009 or this Agreement may be cancelled by the Company, in its sole discretion. By signing below, you acknowledge that a copy of the Plan, Plan Summary and Prospectus, and
 
the Company's most recent Annual Report and Proxy Statement (the "Prospectus Information") either have been received by you or are available for viewing at                     , and you consent to receiving this Prospectus Information electronically, or, in the alternative, agree to contact                      at                      to request a paper copy of the Prospectus Information at no charge. You also represent that you are familiar with the terms and provisions of the Prospectus Information and hereby accept the award on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
This Agreement is made and entered into as of                      ("Date of Grant") between Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. ("Company") and                              ("Grantee").
In consideration of the mutual promises contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the parties agree as follows:
1. The Company delivers to the Grantee a Nonqualified Stock Option to purchase              Class A Common Shares (the "Shares") of the Company (the "Option"). The Option is subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth and to the terms and conditions of the Company's 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan").
2. Unless and until terminated or forfeited as provided herein or in the Plan, the Option shall become exercisable from                      until its expiration date on                     , during which period the Grantee may exercise all or part of the Option provided that each exercise is for at least 50 Shares (the "Minimum Exercise").
3. The exercise price of the Shares shall be $             per share, the Closing Price on the Date of Grant.
4. The Option shall expire at midnight on                     , unless sooner terminated, forfeited or modified under a provision of this Agreement or the Plan.
5. The Option may not be exercised by anyone other than the Grantee or Grantee's guardian or legal representative during Grantee's lifetime. In the event of Grantee's death, the Option may be exercised by the executor or administrator of the Grantee's estate or, if no executor or administrator has been appointed, by the successor or successors in interest determined under the Grantee's will or under the applicable laws of descent and distribution. Except as otherwise provided herein or in the Plan, the Option may not be transferred, assigned, encumbered or alienated in any way by the Grantee and any attempt to do so shall render the Option and any unexercised portion thereof, at the discretion of the Company, null, void and unenforceable.
6(a). To the extent that the Option becomes exercisable in accordance with Section 2, and subject to the Minimum Exercise, it may be exercised in whole or in part by delivering to the Company or the Company's representative written notice of exercise specifying the number of Shares to be purchased. Such notice shall be accompanied by: 1) cash or a check in payment of the option exercise price, or; 2) delivery of previously acquired Shares that are not restricted, which will be valued at their Closing Price on the exercise date in payment of the option exercise price, or; 3) a combination of cash or check and such Shares in payment of the option exercise price.
6(b). Subject to the Minimum Exercise, the Option may also be exercised in whole or in part by giving an irrevocable notice of exercise to the Company's brokerage representative. The date on which such notice is received by the broker shall be the date of the exercise of the Option, provided that within five business days of the delivery of such notice the funds to pay for exercise of the Option are delivered to the Company by a broker acting on behalf of the Grantee either in connection with the sale of the shares underlying the Option or in connection with the making of a margin loan to the Grantee to enable payment of the exercise price of the Option.
7. The Company shall, upon exercise of the Option pursuant to section 6(a) or 6(b), issue or cause to be issued to the Grantee (or Grantee's executor or administrator or other person entitled thereto), a stock certificate for the number of Shares purchased thereby and/or to any broker acting on behalf of the Grantee a stock certificate for the number of shares sold by such broker for the Grantee. As an alternative to the Company issuing a stock certificate, the Company may choose to have shares registered through an uncertificated share registration system.
8. The Company may require, as a condition of the exercise of the Option, that the Grantee sign such further documents as it reasonably determines to be necessary or appropriate to assure compliance with Company policy and/or with federal and applicable state securities laws.
9. The Grantee shall have no rights as a shareholder with respect to any of the Shares until such Shares are issued to the Grantee. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall confer upon the Grantee any right to be nominated for reelection by the Company's shareholders, or any right to remain a member of the Board of Directors of the Company for any period of time, or at any particular rate of compensation.
10. The terms and conditions contained in the Plan, as it may be amended from time to time hereafter are incorporated into and made a part of this Agreement by reference, as if the same were set forth herein in full and all provisions of the Option are made subject to any and all terms of the Plan, as so amended. In the event there is any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall control. This Agreement and the Plan contain the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter contained in this Agreement, and supersede all prior written or oral communications, representations and negotiations in respect thereto.
11. Each capitalized term used, but not defined herein, shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Plan.
12. This Agreement shall be governed by Ohio law.
13. The Grantee hereby consents and agrees to electronic delivery of any documents that the Company may elect to deliver (including, but not limited to, prospectuses, prospectus supplements, grant or award notifications and agreements, account statements, annual and quarterly reports, and all other forms of communications) in connection with this and any other award made or offered under the Plan. The Grantee understands that, unless earlier revoked by
 
the Grantee by giving written notice to the Company, this consent shall be effective for the duration of the Agreement. The Grantee also understands that he or she shall have the right at any time to request that the Company deliver written copies of any and all materials referred to above at no charge. The Grantee hereby consents to any and all procedures the Company has established or may establish for an electronic signature system for delivery and acceptance of any such documents that the Company may elect to deliver, and agrees that his or her electronic signature is the same as, and shall have the same force and effect as, his or her manual signature. The Grantee consents and agrees that any such procedures and delivery may be effected by a third party engaged by the Company to provide administrative services related to the Plan.
14. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Compensation Committee of the Board may modify this Agreement. Any amendment to the Plan shall be deemed to be an amendment to this Agreement to the extent that the amendment is applicable hereto. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amendment of the Plan or this Agreement shall adversely affect the rights of the Grantee under this Agreement without the Grantee's consent.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed on behalf of its duly authorized officer as of the Date of Grant.
 
You may accept the award online or by telephone in accordance with the procedures established by the Company and the Plan administrator. By accepting your award in accordance with these procedures, you acknowledge that a copy of the Plan, Plan Summary and Prospectus, and the Company's most recent Annual Report and Proxy Statement (the "Prospectus Information") either have been received by you or are available for viewing on the Company's intranet site at www.benefits.ml.com and consent to receiving this Prospectus Information electronically, or, in the alternative, agree to contact Corporate Compensation Manager at              to request a
 
paper copy of the Prospectus Information at no charge. You also represent that you are familiar with the terms and provisions of the Prospectus Information and hereby accept the award on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan. These terms and conditions constitute a legal contract that will bind both you and the Company as soon as you accept the award as described above.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Feb. 23, 2009
CINCINNATI  Michael R. Costa, an investment banker with expertise in the media and telecom industries, has been elected as a member of the Board of Directors for Scripps Networks Interactive Inc. Costa, 50, is a former managing director of Merrill Lynch & Company.
"Scripps Networks Interactive is very fortunate to bring aboard someone of Michael Costa's caliber with his knowledge and invaluable experience in media as we continue to expand our footprint in lifestyle and interactive media," said Kenneth W. Lowe, chairman, president and CEO of Scripps Networks Interactive.
At Merrill Lynch, Costa focused on mergers, acquisitions and corporate restructurings in the media and telecom industries. In his most recent position, he was Managing Director, Global Markets and Investment Banking/Mergers and Acquisitions.
Before joining Merrill Lynch in 1989, Costa was a mergers and acquisitions attorney at the law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom in New York.
Costa earned a Juris Doctor degree at Harvard Law School and a bachelor's degree from Colgate University.
About Scripps Networks Interactive
Scripps Networks Interactive Inc. is the leading developer of lifestyle-oriented content for television and the Internet, where on-air programming is complemented with online video, social media areas and e-commerce components on companion Web sites and broadband vertical channels. The company's media portfolio includes: Lifestyle Media, with popular lifestyle television and Internet brands HGTV, Food Network, DIY Network, Fine Living Network and country music network Great American Country (GAC); and Interactive Services, with leading online search and comparison shopping services, Shopzilla and uSwitch
.


