FILE:SNI/SNI-8K-20091207173743.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
In connection with a proposed financing transaction,Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. (the "Company"), the Company prepared certain unaudited pro forma financial information that is being presented to potential investors. The unaudited pro forma financial information, and the accompanying notes thereto, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01. Exhibit 99.1 should be read in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the Company's historical consolidated and combined financial statements, and the accompanying notes thereto, which are included in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2009, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 6, 2009, and the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on December 3, 2009.
The adjustments reflected in the unaudited pro forma financial information are based upon available information and certain estimates and assumptions. Actual results may differ from the pro forma adjustments and from the estimates and assumptions used. The Company believes that the estimates and assumptions used provide a reasonable basis for presenting the effects of the transactions as described in Exhibit 99.1. The pro forma adjustments made in connection with the development of the unaudited pro forma financial information do not purport to be indicative of the Company's results of operations or the Company's financial position that actually would have occurred had such transactions been consummated as set forth in Exhibit 99.1. The unaudited pro forma financial information is not intended to indicate the results that may be expected for any future period.
The information in this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1, shall be treated as "furnished," and not "filed," for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 7, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
The following tables present SNI's unaudited pro forma consolidated and combined financial information and should be read in conjunction with the material captioned "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in SNI's quarterly report on for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2009 and in SNI's current report on filed December 3, 2009, and SNI's historical combined financial statements and the related notes thereto.
Form 10-Q
Form 8-K
 
The unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet data as of September 30, 2009, gives effect to the consummation of the Transaction as if it had occurred on September 30, 2009. The unaudited pro forma consolidated and combined results of operations data for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 and for the year ended December 31, 2008, gives effect to the consummation of the Transaction as if it occurred on January 1, 2008. The unaudited interim pro forma consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a basis consistent with the audited combined financial statements and, in the opinion of management, include all adjustments (including normal recurring adjustments) necessary for a fair presentation of such data. The results for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results for a full year.
 
The unaudited pro forma consolidated information is for illustrative and informational purposes only and is not intended to represent, or be indicative of, what SNI's results of operations or financial position would have been had the Transaction occurred on the dates indicated. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information also should not be considered representative of SNI's future financial position or results of operations.
 
 
 
 
See notes to unaudited pro forma consolidated and combined financial statements.
 
 
 
 
See notes to unaudited pro forma consolidated and combined financial statements.
 
 
 
 
See the notes to SNI's consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
 


