FILE:SNI/SNI-8K-20091124171827.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) On November 18, 2009, the Company amended the Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan ("SERP") and the Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan ("Deferred Compensation Plan"), and adopted the Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. Supplemental Contribution Plan (the "Supplemental Contribution Plan"), all to be consistent with changes previously made by the Company to the Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. Pension Plan ("Pension Plan") and the Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. 401K Savings Plan ("401K Plan"). The amendments to the SERP and the Deferred Compensation Plan, and a description of the new Supplemental Contribution Plan are summarized below. These are only summaries and are qualified in their entirety by the terms of the amendments and the plan.
Amendment to the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
The Amendment to the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, effective January 1, 2010, freezes the plan with respect to otherwise eligible employees who have not completed at least one year of eligible service (as defined in the Pension Plan) as of December 31, 2009, so that the SERP will mirror similar changes previously made by the Company to the Pension Plan.
Amendment to the Deferred Compensation Plan
The Amendment to the Deferred Compensation Plan, effective January 1, 2010, (i) extends eligibility to management employees with annual salaries in excess of $200,000, and (ii) provides a matching contribution on deferrals of base salary and annual incentive.
Adoption of the Supplemental Contribution Plan
The Supplemental Contribution Plan (i) provides "excess" age and service credits to participants whose age and service contributions under the 401K Plan are subject to limits imposed by the Internal Revenue Service, and (ii) provides enhanced age and service credits to designated participants who have attained at least age 45 with at least 5 years of service as of January 1, 2010.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 


