FILE:SNI/SNI-8K-20090806093633.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 6, 2009, we released information regarding results of operations for the quarter and year-to-date periods ended June 30, 2009. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.
The discussion and the information contained in the press release contain certain forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations. Forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, trends, and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements. Such risks, trends and uncertainties, which in most instances are beyond our control, include changes in advertising demand and other economic conditions; consumers' tastes; program costs; labor relations; technological developments; competitive pressures; interest rates; regulatory rulings; and reliance on third-party vendors for various products and services. The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "intend," and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements, which are as of the date of this filing, should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date the statement is made.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: August 6, 2009

Exhibit 99
PRESS RELEASE
 
Aug. 6, 2009
For immediate release
CINCINNATI  Scripps Networks Interactive Inc. (NYSE: SNI) today reported operating results for the second quarter 2009.
Results for the three-month period ended June 30 reflect continued strong growth in affiliate fee revenue offset by modestly lower advertising revenue for the company's lifestyle television networks and the continuing effects of a repositioning of Shopzilla, the company's online comparison shopping business.
Consolidated revenue for the quarter decreased 3.7 percent year over year to $391 million with total revenue from the company's Lifestyle Media business segment up slightly for the period compared with last year.
Consolidated second quarter expenses decreased 1.1 percent year over year.
Consolidated second quarter net income attributable to Scripps Networks Interactive was $79.5 million, or 48 cents per share compared with $53.3 million, or 33 cents, in the second quarter 2008. Net income reported for the second quarter 2008 included a charge of $26.4 million, or 16 cents per share, that was related to the company's spin-off from The E. W. Scripps Company in July of last year. Because the company was not operated independently from its former parent before July 1, 2008, prior-year net income for the period included an estimate of corporate expenses.
Consolidated segment profit for the company during the second quarter 2009 was $166 million compared with $179 million in the prior-year period. (See Note 2 for a definition of segment profit). The company generated $82.4 million in cash from continuing operating activities and $42.3 million in free cash flow during the three-month period.
From the company's Lifestyle Media business segment, which includes HGTV and Food Network, total revenue for the period was $351 million, up slightly from $349 million in the prior-year quarter. Affiliate fee revenue increased 15 percent year over year on improved rates for HGTV and expanding distribution of all of the company's television networks. Other television networks operated by the company include DIY Network, Fine Living Network (FLN) and Great American Country (GAC). For the full year, the company expects affiliate fee revenue to increase around 15 percent.
Advertising revenue from the Lifestyle Media segment decreased 3.8 percent in the second quarter. The rate of decline moderated sequentially from the previous quarter, reflecting improving trends in the overall advertising marketplace.
The company continued to invest in new, original programming during the period to build viewership and increase audience market share at all of its networks. Total Lifestyle Media expenses for the quarter increased 2.1 percent. The company expects full-year programming expenses to increase by 9 to 11 percent. Non-programming costs are expected to be flat to down slightly for the year.
Lifestyle Media segment profit during the second quarter was $172 million compared with $175 million during the prior year.
Revenue from the company's Interactive Services business segment, which includes online comparison shopping services Shopzilla and BizRate, was $40.8 million during the second quarter compared with $57.2 million during the same period in 2008. Initiatives under way to reposition and differentiate Shopzilla's products are starting to show positive trends. Most notably, leads to Shopzilla merchant partners in the quarter grew 14 percent year over year. This qualified lead volume metric is important because it measures the value Shopzilla is delivering to its direct merchant partners, as well as the level of engagement that consumers are having with the core content on its branded comparison shopping Web sites at BizRate.com and Shopzilla.com.
In addition to the revenue tradeoffs associated with the competitive repositioning, Shopzilla's results were held back by continued weak consumer demand for retail products and the effects of a less-favorable sponsored-link revenue sharing agreement with Google. uSwitch results are being reported as discontinued operations. The company announced during the quarter that it is seeking a buyer for the energy-switching subsidiary.
Interactive Services expenses declined 24 percent during the second quarter as the company continued to scale the business to match market conditions.
Interactive Services segment profit was $7.3 million in the second quarter compared with $12.9 million during the same period a year earlier. The company expects Shopzilla segment profit to be above $30 million for the full year.
"The resilience and popularity of our audience-engaging franchises led to a solid operating performance in the second quarter," said Kenneth W. Lowe, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Scripps Networks Interactive. "We continued to demonstrate our dominance in the core food and shelter content categories, which led to total revenue growth in our Lifestyle Media business segment. In the second quarter, robust affiliate fee growth offset a modest decline in advertising for our core television networks. Food Network and DIY Network, in particular, performed extremely well during the quarter, delivering all-time highs in primetime audiences. HGTV delivered a strong audience as well, as creative programming enhancements we've made clearly are resonating with shelter content fans.
"In our Interactive Services segment, Shopzilla achieved another profitable quarter. We're beginning to see positive results from the strategic repositioning of the business that we initiated to make it more competitive and sustainable. We're making progress enhancing customer satisfaction, expanding comprehensive product search content, and delivering greater value to merchants who partner with us for leads."
Here are second-quarter results by operating segment:
Lifestyle Media
Lifestyle Media affiliate fee revenue grew 15 percent to $80.0 million. Advertising revenue was $261 million, down 3.8 percent.
Total expenses increased 2.1 percent. Programming expenses increased 9.1 percent to $78.1 million. Non-programming costs decreased 2.7 percent to $100 million.
Lifestyle Media segment profit was $172 million compared with $175 million in the prior-year period.
Operating revenue at HGTV was $164 million, up 0.4 percent. HGTV now reaches 98 million subscribers compared with about 95 million at the end of the second quarter 2008.
Food Network operating revenue was $128 million, up 1.7 percent. Food Network reaches 98 million subscribers, up from about 96 million at the end of the second quarter 2008.
Revenue at DIY Network was up 5.6 percent to $18.1 million. DIY can be seen in about 51 million households, up from about 48 million households a year ago.
Fine Living Network (FLN) revenue was $11.0 million, down 23 percent, reflecting lower-than-anticipated audience levels since becoming a rated network at the beginning of the year. Fine Living reaches 55 million households vs. 50 million households last year.
Revenue at Great American Country (GAC) increased 4.3 percent to $6.7 million. Great American Country can be seen in about 56 million homes compared with about 54 million homes a year ago.
Revenue from the Lifestyle Media segment's interactive businesses (SN Digital) was $20.8 million, down 0.9 percent.
Interactive Services
Interactive Services revenue was $40.8 million compared with $57.2 million.
Segment expenses decreased 24 percent to $33.5 million.
Segment profit was $7.3 million compared with $12.9 million.
Conference call
The senior management team of Scripps Networks Interactive will discuss the company's second quarter results during a telephone conference call at 10 a.m. EDT today. Scripps Networks Interactive will offer a live webcast of the conference call. To access the webcast, visit and follow the Investor Relations link at the top of the page. The webcast link can be found next to the microphone icon.
www.scrippsnetworksinteractive.com
To access the conference call by telephone, dial 1-800-230-1092 (U.S.) or 612-288-0340 (international) approximately ten minutes before the start of the call. Callers will need the name of the call, "second quarter earnings report," to be granted access. Callers also will be asked to provide their name and company affiliation. The media and general public are granted access to the conference call on a listen-only basis.
A replay line will be open from 12 p.m. EDT Aug. 6 until 11:59 p.m. EDT Aug. 13. The domestic number to access the replay is 1-800-475-6701 and the international number is 1-320-365-3844. The access code for both numbers is 996741. A replay of the conference call will also be available online. To access the audio replay, visit approximately four hours after the call, choose Investor Relations, then follow the Audio Archives link on the left side of the page.
www.scrippsnetworksinteractive.com
Forward-looking statements
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements related to the company's businesses that are based on management's current expectations. Forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, trends
and uncertainties, including changes in advertising demand and other economic conditions that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. The company's written policy on forward-looking statements can be found on page F-3 of its 2008 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date the statement is made.
About Scripps Networks Interactive
Scripps Networks Interactive Inc. is one of the leading developers of lifestyle-oriented content for television and the Internet, where on-air programming is complemented with online video, social media areas and e-commerce components on companion Web sites and broadband vertical channels. The company's media portfolio includes: Lifestyle Media, with popular lifestyle television and Internet brands HGTV, Food Network, DIY Network, Fine Living Network (FLN) and country music network Great American Country (GAC); and Interactive Services, with leading online search and comparison shopping services BizRate and Shopzilla
.
SCRIPPS NETWORKS INTERACTIVE, INC.
CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
For comparison purposes, results in the first half of 2008 include estimates of Scripps Networks Interactive's portion of The E. W. Scripps Company's corporate expenses for those periods. Such estimates are not representative of our costs as a stand-alone company.
 
Net income per share amounts may not foot since each is calculated independently.
See notes to results of operations.
SCRIPPS NETWORKS INTERACTIVE, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
SCRIPPS NETWORKS INTERACTIVE, INC.
CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
1. OTHER CHARGES AND CREDITS
In the second quarter of 2008, E. W. Scripps redeemed their outstanding notes which were previously allocated to us in our combined financial statements. The associated loss on extinguishment from such redemption, which was not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes, was allocated to us in our statement of operations resulting in a reduction to year-to-date net income of $26.4 million, $.16 per share.
2. SEGMENT INFORMATION
We determine our business segments based upon our management and internal reporting structure. Our reportable segments are strategic businesses that offer different products and services.
Lifestyle Media includes five national television networks, Internet businesses and other electronic content services primarily in the United States. Our networks also operate domestically and internationally through licensing agreements with other entities. We own approximately 69% of Food Network and approximately 94% of Fine Living Network ("FLN").
Interactive Services includes our online comparison shopping service, Shopzilla, and its related online comparison shopping brand, BizRate. Shopzilla and BizRate are product comparison shopping services that help consumers find products offered for sale on the Web by online retailers. Shopzilla and BizRate also operate a Web-based consumer feedback network which collects millions of consumer reviews of stores and products each year.
Our chief operating decision maker (as defined by FAS No. 131, "") evaluates the operating performance of our business segments using a measure we call segment profit. Segment profit excludes interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, divested operating units, restructuring activities, investment results and certain other items that are included in net income determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Refer to Note 4for reconciliations to GAAP measures.
Segment Reporting
Non-GAAP Financial Measures,
Items excluded from segment profit generally result from decisions made in prior periods or from decisions made by corporate executives rather than the managers of the business segments. Depreciation and amortization charges are the result of decisions made in prior periods regarding the allocation of resources and are therefore excluded from the measure. Financing, tax structure and divestiture decisions are generally made by corporate executives. Excluding these items from our business segment performance measure enables us to evaluate business segment operating performance for the current period based upon current economic conditions and decisions made by the managers of those business segments in the current period.
Information regarding the operating performance of our business segments determined in accordance with FAS 131 and reconciliation to our results of operations is as follows:
 
Corporate costs in 2008 reflect an estimate of SNI's portion of The E. W. Scripps Company's corporate expenses. Corporate expenses in 2009 include one-time costs related to the spin-off that totaled $2.0 million in the second quarter and $5.7 million for the year-to-date period.
3. SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Our Lifestyle Media division earns revenue primarily from the sale of advertising time in our national television networks' programming, affiliate fees paid by cable and satellite television operators that carry our network programming, the licensing of its content to third parties, the licensing of its brands for consumer products such as books and kitchenware, and from the sale of advertising on our Lifestyle Media affiliated Web sites (SN Digital).
Supplemental information for Lifestyle Media is as follows:
 
 
4. NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
In addition to the results prepared in accordance with GAAP provided in this release, the Company has presented segment profit and free cash flow. A reconciliation of segment profit to operating income determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for each business segment is as follows:
 
The Company defines free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities less dividends paid to noncontrolling interests and acquisitions of property, plant and equipment. The Company measures free cash flow as it believes it is an important indicator for management and investors as to the Company's liquidity, including its ability to reduce debt, make strategic investments and return capital to shareholders. A reconciliation of free cash flow is as follows:
 
Since segment profit and free cash flow are non-GAAP measures, they should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flow provided by operating activities and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP.


