FILE:SNI/SNI-8K-20101104095201.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 4, 2010, we released information regarding results of operations for the quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 30, 2010. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibits 99.
The information in this Form 8-K and the attached Exhibit is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
On November 4, 2010, the Company announced its financial results for the quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 30, 2010. The full text of the press release is set forth in Exhibit 99. The Company has also released certain supplemental financial information that can be accessed through the Company's website at www.scrippsnetworksinteractive.com.
The information in this Form 8-K and the attached Exhibit as well as the supplemental information referenced above is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 "Regulation FD Disclosure" and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 4, 2010

 
For immediate release
Nov. 4, 2010
KNOXVILLE, Tenn.Scripps Networks Interactive Inc. (NYSE: SNI) today reported operating results for the third quarter 2010.
Consolidated revenues for the quarter increased 40 percent to $509 million from the prior-year period. Excluding Travel Channel, in which the company acquired a controlling interest on Dec. 15, 2009, consolidated revenue increased 22 percent to $445 million, year-over-year.
Results for the three-month period ended Sept. 30 reflect strong double-digit growth in advertising revenue of $319 million, up 34 percent, and affiliate fee revenue of $140 million, up 72 percent year-over-year. The growth was driven by strong performance from the company's Lifestyle Media business segment, which includes HGTV, Food Network and Travel Channel. Excluding the Travel Channel, advertising revenue increased 19 percent and affiliate fee revenue increased 40 percent.
Also contributing to improved consolidated results was a 7.2 percent increase in revenues from the company's Interactive Services segment, which includes Shopzilla's growing suite of shopping-related Web sites. The growth in Shopzilla revenues is attributable to the company's strong growth in its European properties and positive signs that the company's ongoing initiative to reposition the business in the U. S. is beginning to pay off.
Consolidated expenses for the quarter increased 29 percent from the prior-year period to $285 million. The increase in expenses was due primarily to the consolidation of Travel Channel results and the restoration of marketing budgets to support brand-building initiatives at all of the company's television networks.
 
Income from continuing operations before taxes increased 52 percent to $191 million from the prior-year period. For the third quarter 2010, total segment profit increased 55 percent to $224 million. (See note 2 for definition of segment profit).
Third-quarter net income attributable to Scripps Networks Interactive was $102 million, or $0.61 per share, compared with $65.3 million, or $0.39 per share, in the third quarter 2009. Excluding a favorable tax adjustment and the effect of transition costs related to the Travel Channel, net income attributable to Scripps Networks Interactive would be $98.8 million, or $0.59 per share.
"Scripps Networks Interactive had an outstanding third quarter, benefitting from robust affiliate revenue growth and continued strong advertising demand, particularly for our targeted lifestyle television networks," said Kenneth W. Lowe, chairman, president and chief executive officer of the company. "All of our networks and our online shopping related businesses contributed to double-digit revenue and earnings growth."
"At the Travel Channel, we've significantly expanded our growing list of national advertisers while simultaneously increasing the size of our audience," Lowe said. "We're successfully leveraging the popularity of Travel's stellar talent, including Adam Richman, Anthony Bourdain and Andrew Zimmern, and are deep into developing new programming concepts which you'll be seeing in the months ahead."
"The newly rebranded Cooking Channel is delivering positive results with audiences steadily increasing each month since the network's debut. Compared with Fine Living's footprint last September, total-day audiences have increased 43 percent and prime time has improved 15 percent," Lowe said. "Cooking Channel recently launched two new shows, one of which, is the network's highest rated series premiere yet."
Week in a Day with Rachael Ray
"And, we've turned the corner at Shopzilla, where we've been working diligently to improve our position in the market with both consumers and advertisers to set the stage for renewed growth," Lowe said. "We view Shopzilla's positive results for the quarter as the inflection point in our efforts to restage this business and enhance its competitive position as one of the most influential players in online retail."
Here are third-quarter results by operating segment:
Lifestyle Media
Lifestyle Media revenue was $462 million, up 42 percent. Affiliate fee revenue grew 71 percent to $139 million. Advertising revenue was $316 million, up 34 percent. Excluding Travel Channel, Lifestyle Media revenue was up 23 percent, affiliate revenue increased 39 percent and advertising revenue was up 18 percent.
Total expenses increased 31 percent to $230 million.
Programming expenses increased 24 percent to $98.7 million. Programming expenses excluding Travel Channel were up 5.7 percent.
Non-programming costs increased 38 percent to $131 million, due to:
 
 
 
During the third quarter, Lifestyle Media segment profit was up 55 percent to $232 million compared with $150 million in the prior-year period. Lifestyle Media segment profit margin was 50 percent, up from 46 percent in the prior-year third quarter.
Revenue at HGTV was $174 million, up 14 percent. HGTV now reaches 100 million U.S. households, up more than 800,000 from the end of third quarter 2009.
Revenue at Food Network was $160 million, up 35 percent. Food Network reaches 100 million U.S. households, up from 99 million at the end of the third quarter 2009.
Revenue at Travel Channel increased 14 percent to $62.3 million, on a pro-forma basis. Travel Channel reaches 96 million U.S. households, up from 95 million at the end of the third quarter 2009.
Revenue at DIY Network was up 29 percent to $22.8 million. DIY can be seen in 54 million U.S. households, up 1.9 million households from a year ago.
Revenue at Cooking Channel (formerly Fine Living Network) was $12.2 million, up 9.3 percent. These results include a $3.0 million increase in amortization for distribution incentives related to the rebranding of the Fine Living Network to the Cooking Channel. Excluding this item, revenue at the Cooking Channel was $15.2 million, up 36 percent from the prior-year quarter. The company completed its rebranding of Fine Living Network to the Cooking Channel on May 31. Cooking Channel reaches 58 million U.S. households vs. 56 million that Fine Living reached during the same timeframe last year.
Revenue at Great American Country (GAC) increased 18 percent to $7.6 million. GAC can be seen in 60 million U.S. households compared with 57 million homes at the end of the third quarter 2009.
Revenue from the Lifestyle Media segment's digital businesses, which includes its network-branded Web sites, was $21.5 million, up 23 percent.
Interactive Services
Revenue increased 7.2 percent to $41.8 million compared with the year-ago quarter.
Segment expenses increased 6.4 percent to $34.7 million.
Segment profit increased 11 percent to $7.1 million compared with the year-ago quarter.
The improved results are attributable to the significant expansion of Shopzilla's share in Europe and to the company's ongoing efforts to enhance the competitive position of its U. S. online comparison shopping Web sites, which includes BizRate.com, Beso, Tada.com and Shopzilla.com.
 
 
Shopzilla's U.S. business is poised for growth after undertaking significant efforts to restage the business in response to changing market dynamics. Helping to drive growth is the improved utilization of the 80 million monetized product search results now under management. Further adding to the expected improvement in results is increased visitation as a result of better search indexing and broadening of the product portfolio to include Beso.com, a leader in product discovery for taste-based products.
Redirects per user session were up 17 percent year-over-year during the quarter. The growth in redirects per session is a positive indication that the Web sites are helping consumers more effectively find what they are looking for and producing more qualified leads for Shopzilla's advertising partners.
2010, Full-year Guidance
The company provided the following outlook for 2010.
Lifestyle Media
 
Interactive Services
The full-year segment profit forecast for the company's Shopzilla comparison shopping business also is unchanged. Shopzilla segment profit is expected to be $33 million to $35 million for the year.
International
International operating losses for the full-year are now expected to be $10 million to $12 million. International operating losses for the first nine months ended September 30, 2010 were $7.4 million.
Other items
 
 
 
Conference call
The senior management team of Scripps Networks Interactive will discuss the company's third quarter results during a telephone conference call at 10 a.m. EDT today. Scripps Networks Interactive will offer a live webcast of the conference call. To access the webcast, visit and follow the Investor Relations link at the top of the page. The webcast link can be found next to the microphone icon.
www.scrippsnetworksinteractive.com
To access the conference call by telephone, dial 800-230-1085 (U.S.) or 612-288-0337 (international) approximately ten minutes before the start of the call. Callers will need the name of the call, "Third Quarter Earnings Call," to be granted access. Callers also will be asked to provide their name and company affiliation. The media and general public are granted access to the conference call on a listen-only basis.
A replay line will be open from 12:30 p.m. EDT Nov. 4 until 11:59 p.m. EDT Nov. 18. The domestic number to access the replay is 800-475-6701 and the international number is 320-365-3844. The access code for both numbers is 173668. A replay of the conference call will also be available online. To access the audio replay, visit approximately four hours after the call, choose Investor Relations then follow the Audio Archives link on the left side of the page.
www.scrippsnetworksinteractive.com
Forward-looking statements
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements related to the company's businesses that are based on management's current expectations. Forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, trends and uncertainties, including changes in advertising demand and other economic conditions that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. The company's written policy on forward-looking statements can be found on page F-3 of its 2009 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date the statement is made.
About Scripps Networks Interactive
Scripps Networks Interactive is one of the leading developers of lifestyle-oriented content for television and the Internet, where on-air programming is complemented with online video, social media areas and e-commerce components on companion Web sites and broadband vertical channels. The company's media portfolio includes Lifestyle Media, which is comprised of popular lifestyle television and Internet brands HGTV, Food Network, Travel Channel, DIY Network, Cooking Channel and country music network Great American Country; and Interactive Services, with leading online search and comparison shopping services BizRate, Beso and Shopzilla.
 
SCRIPPS NETWORKS INTERACTIVE, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
Net income per share amounts may not foot since each is calculated independently.
See notes to results of operations.
 
SCRIPPS NETWORKS INTERACTIVE, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
SCRIPPS NETWORKS INTERACTIVE, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
 
1. OTHER CHARGES AND CREDITS
Our third quarter 2010 income tax provision includes favorable adjustments attributed to changes in both estimated foreign tax credits and state apportionment factors reflected in our filed tax returns. Net income was increased by $4.3 million, $.03 per share.
Operating results in the third quarter of 2010 include $3.5 million of transition costs following our acquisition of a controlling interest in the Travel Channel in December of 2009. Net income attributable to SNI for the third quarter of 2010 was reduced $1.4 million, $.01 per share.
For the year-to-date period of 2010, these Travel Channel transition costs were $27.6 million. Year-to-date operating results in 2010 also include $11.0 million of marketing and legal expenses incurred to support the company's affiliate agreement renewal negotiations for Food Network and HGTV. These items reduced year-to-date net income attributable to SNI $16.9 million, $.10 per share.
During the second quarter of 2010, we reduced the valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset resulting from the uSwitch sale in December of 2009. The reduction in the valuation allowance reflects the utilization of the uSwitch capital loss against capital gains that were generated in periods prior to the separation from The E. W. Scripps Company (" E. W. Scripps"). In accordance with the tax allocation agreement with E. W. Scripps, we were notified in the second quarter that these capital gains were available for use by SNI. Accordingly, results for our discontinued operations in 2010 reflect an income tax benefit of $9.3 million. Year-to-date net income attributable to SNI was increased $.06 per share.
2. SEGMENT INFORMATION
We determine our business segments based upon our management and internal reporting structure. Our reportable segments are strategic businesses that offer different products and services.
Lifestyle Media includes our national television networks, HGTV, Food Network, Travel Channel, DIY Network, Cooking Channel (previously branded as Fine Living Network ("FLN")), and Great American Country ("GAC"). Lifestyle Media also includes Web sites that are associated with the aforementioned television brands and other Internet-based businesses serving food, home, and travel related categories such as HGTVPro.com and FrontDoor.com. The Food Network and Cooking Channel are included in the Food Network Partnership of which we own approximately 69%. We also own 65% of Travel Channel. Each of our networks is distributed by cable and satellite distributors and telecommunication service providers.
Interactive Services includes our online comparison shopping service, Shopzilla, and its related online comparison shopping brands, BizRate and Beso. Our product comparison shopping services help consumers find products offered for sale on the Web by online retailers. Shopzilla also operates a Web-based consumer feedback network within the BizRate brand that collects consumer reviews of stores and products.
Our chief operating decision maker evaluates the operating performance of our business segments using a measure we call segment profit. Segment profit excludes interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, divested operating units, restructuring activities, investment results and certain other items that are included in net income determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Refer to Note 5for reconciliations to GAAP measures.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures,
Items excluded from segment profit generally result from decisions made in prior periods or from decisions made by corporate executives rather than the managers of the business segments. Depreciation and amortization charges are the result of decisions made in prior periods regarding the allocation of resources and are therefore excluded from the measure. Financing, tax structure and divestiture decisions are generally made by corporate executives. Excluding these items from our business segment performance measure enables us to evaluate business segment operating performance for the current period based upon current economic conditions and decisions made by the managers of those business segments in the current period.
 
 
Information regarding the operating performance of our business segments and a reconciliation to our results of operations is as follows:
 
Corporate includes the operating results of the venture we formed with Chello Zone Media in the fourth quarter of 2009, operating results from the international licensing of our national networks' programming, and the costs associated with our international expansion initiatives. The venture with Chello Zone Media, of which we own 89%, was formed to launch new lifestyle-oriented channels in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Our continued investment in international expansion initiatives increased the third quarter 2010 segment loss at corporate by $2.4 million and increased the 2010 year-to-date segment loss by $7.4 million.
 
 
3. SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Our Lifestyle Media division earns revenue primarily from the sale of advertising time on our national television networks, affiliate fees paid by cable and satellite television operators that carry our network programming, the licensing of its content to third parties, the licensing of its brands for consumer products such as books and kitchenware, and from the sale of advertising on our Lifestyle Media affiliated Web sites.
Supplemental information for Lifestyle Media is as follows:
 
 
 
 
4. TRAVEL CHANNEL
On December 15, 2009 we acquired a 65 percent controlling interest in the Travel Channel (the "Travel Channel Acquisition").
The following table summarizes Travel Channel's quarterly financial information for 2009.
 
Prior to December 15, 2009, the Travel Channel was owned and operated by Cox TMI Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Cox Communications, Inc. ("Cox"). The summarized results above reflect the historical combined results of operations for the Travel Channel and were prepared on a basis of accounting that was in accordance with GAAP, but the amounts are not necessarily indicative of Travel Channel's actual results had they been operating as a separate, stand-alone company for the periods presented. The amounts summarized above include allocations for certain corporate overhead expenses that were based on Cox management's best estimate of amounts attributable to the Travel Channel. Additionally, the Travel Channel had a number of service agreements with a third party covering affiliate sales, advertising sales and transmission and quality control/library services. The costs of these services are included in the quarterly results summarized above. These services have been transitioned to SNI. Costs allocated to Travel Channel for such services following transition could differ from the amounts included in the historical results above.
The fourth quarter 2009 amounts include both the periods prior to and subsequent to the Travel Channel Acquisition.
 
 
5. NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
In addition to the results prepared in accordance with GAAP provided in this release, the Company has presented segment profit. A reconciliation of segment profit to operating income determined in accordance with GAAP for each business segment is as follows:
 
The Company defines free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities less dividends paid to noncontrolling interests and acquisitions of property, plant and equipment. The Company measures free cash flow as it believes it is an important indicator for management and investors as to the Company's liquidity, including its ability to reduce debt, make strategic investments and return capital to shareholders. A reconciliation of free cash flow is as follows:
 
Since segment profit and free cash flow are non-GAAP measures, they should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flow provided by operating activities and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP.
 


