FILE:SNI/SNI-8K-20121101094618.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 1, 2012, we released information regarding results of operations for the quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 30, 2012. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.
The information in this Form 8-K and the attached Exhibit is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On November 1, 2012, the Company announced its financial results for the quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 30, 2012. The full text of the press release is set forth in Exhibit 99. The Company has also released certain supplemental financial information that can be accessed through the Company's website at www.scrippsnetworksinteractive.com.
The information in this Form 8-K and the attached Exhibit as well as the supplemental information referenced above is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 "Regulation FD Disclosure" and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 1, 2012

EXHIBIT 99
PRESS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
For immediate release
Nov. 1, 2012
KNOXVILLE, Tenn.  Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. (NYSE: SNI) today reported operating results for the third quarter 2012.
Consolidated revenues for the quarter increased 12 percent to $566 million from the prior-year period. Results for the three-month period ended Sept. 30 reflect strong advertising revenue of $377 million, up 10 percent, and affiliate fee revenue of $175 million, up 18 percent year-over-year.
Expenses for the quarter increased 11 percent from the prior-year period to $315 million. The increase was driven primarily by higher employee costs and investments in planned domestic and international growth initiatives. Also contributing to the increase was higher marketing and promotional expenses to drive viewership at all of the company's lifestyle television networks.
Total segment profit increased 15 percent to $251 million. (See for a definition of segment profit).
note 2
Third quarter income from continuing operations attributable to Scripps Networks Interactive was $118 million, or $0.78 per diluted share, compared with $105 million, or $0.65 per diluted share, in the third quarter 2011.
"Our positive third quarter results demonstrate in a powerful way the ubiquitous nature of our popular lifestyle brands," said Kenneth W. Lowe, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Scripps Networks Interactive. "Our networks and related businesses engage millions of media consumers every day, not just on television, but on smart phones, tablets, newsstands and in thousands of retail outlets across America. We've established ourselves as clear leaders in our ability to influence consumer purchasing decisions in the home, food and travel categories. And in the process, we've created tremendous value for our shareholders," Lowe said.
Revenues by network were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue from the company's digital businesses, which include its network-branded websites, was $27.7 million, up 12 percent.
Conference call
The senior management team of Scripps Networks Interactive will discuss the company's third quarter results during a telephone conference call at 10 a.m. ET today. Scripps Networks Interactive will offer a live webcast of the conference call. To access the webcast, visit and follow the Investors link at the top of the page. The webcast link can be found next to the microphone icon on the investor relations landing page.
www.scrippsnetworksinteractive.com
To access the conference call by telephone, dial 800-230-1085 (U.S.) or 612-288-0337 (international) approximately ten minutes before the start of the call. Callers will need the name of the call, "SNI Third Quarter Earnings Call," to be granted access. Callers also will be asked to provide their name and company affiliation. The media and general public are granted access to the conference call on a listen-only basis.
A replay line will be open from 12:30 p.m. ET Nov. 1 until 11:59 p.m. ET Nov. 15. The domestic number to access the replay is 800-475-6701 and the international number is 320-365-3844. The access code for both numbers is 266000. A replay of the conference call also will be available online. To access the audio replay, visit approximately four hours after the call, choose Investors then follow the Audio Archives link on the top right side of the investor relations landing page.
www.scrippsnetworksinteractive.com
Forward-looking statements
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements related to the company's businesses that are based on management's current expectations. Forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, trends and uncertainties, including changes in advertising demand and other economic conditions that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. The company's written policy on forward-looking statements can be found on page F-3 of its 2011 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date the statement is made.
About Scripps Networks Interactive
Scripps Networks Interactive is one of the leading developers of lifestyle-oriented content for television and the Internet, where on-air programming is complemented with online video, social media areas and e-commerce components on companion websites and broadband vertical channels. The company's media portfolio includes popular lifestyle television and Internet brands Food Network, HGTV, Travel Channel, DIY Network, Cooking Channel and country music network Great American Country.
 
SCRIPPS NETWORKS INTERACTIVE, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
Net income per share amounts may not foot since each is calculated independently.
SCRIPPS NETWORKS INTERACTIVE, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
SCRIPPS NETWORKS INTERACTIVE, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
1. OTHER CHARGES AND CREDITS
In August 2011, the Company announced that SNI would be acquiring a 50-percent equity interest in UKTV for 239 million and 100 million to acquire the outstanding preferred stock and debt due to Virgin Media, Inc. from UKTV. To minimize the cash flow volatility resulting from British Pound to U.S. dollar currency exchange rate changes, we subsequently entered into foreign currency forward contracts that effectively set the U.S. dollar value for the transaction. We settled these foreign currency exchange forward contracts around the September 30, 2011 closing of the transaction and recognized losses from the contracts totaling $25.3 million. These losses reported within the "Miscellaneous" caption in our consolidated statements of operations reduced net income attributed to SNI $15.7 million, $.10 per share.
Our tax provision in the third quarter of 2011 includes favorable adjustments attributed to reaching agreements with certain tax authorities for positions taken in prior period returns and adjustments to foreign income items, state apportionment factors and credits reflected in our filed tax returns. Net income attributable to SNI was increased $14.5 million, $.09 per share.
During the second quarter of 2011, our Board of Directors approved the sale of our Shopzilla business and its related online comparison shopping brands. We received consideration totaling approximately $160 million upon finalizing the sale of the business on May 31, 2011. The results of operations for this business have been retrospectively presented as discontinued operations within our consolidated financial statements for all periods. Discontinued operations in the second quarter of 2011 reflect a loss on divestiture of $53.3 million related to the sale of the Shopzilla business. No income tax benefit related to the capital losses attributed to the sale was recognized. Year-to-date net income attributable to SNI was decreased $.31 per share.
In August 2010, we contributed the Cooking Channel to the Food Network Partnership (the "Partnership"). At the close of our 2010 fiscal year, the noncontrolling owner had not made a required pro-rata capital contribution to the Partnership and as a result its ownership interest was diluted from 31 percent to 25 percent. Accordingly, following the Cooking Channel contribution, profits from the partnership were allocated to the noncontrolling owner at its reduced ownership percentage. In February 2011, the noncontrolling owner made the pro-rata contribution to the Partnership and its ownership interest was returned to the pre-dilution percentage as if the contribution had been made as of the date of the Cooking Channel contribution. The retroactive impact of restoring the noncontrolling owner's interest in the Partnership increased net income attributed to noncontrolling interest $8.0 million in the first quarter of 2011. Year-to-date net income attributable to SNI was decreased $4.7 million, $.03 per share.
2. SEGMENT INFORMATION
We determine our business segments based upon our management and internal reporting structure. We manage our operations through one reportable operating segment, Lifestyle Media.
Lifestyle Media includes our national television networks, Food Network, HGTV, Travel Channel, DIY Network, Cooking Channel and Great American Country ("GAC"). Lifestyle Media also includes websites that are associated with the aforementioned television brands and other Internet-based businesses serving food, home and travel related categories. The Food Network and Cooking Channel are included in the Food Network Partnership of which we own approximately 69%. We also own 65% of Travel Channel. Each of our networks is distributed by cable and satellite distributors and telecommunication service providers.
The results of businesses not separately identified as reportable segments are included within our corporate and other caption. Corporate and other includes the results of the lifestyle-oriented channels we operate in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia, operating results from the international licensing of our national networks' programming, and other interactive and digital business initiatives that are not associated with our Lifestyle Media or international businesses.
Our chief operating decision maker evaluates the operating performance of our business segments and makes decisions about the allocation of resources to our business segments using a measure we call segment profit. Segment profit excludes interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, divested operating units, restructuring activities, investment results and certain other items that are included in net income determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Refer to Note 4for reconciliations to GAAP measures.
Non-GAAP
Financial Measures,
Items excluded from segment profit generally result from decisions made in prior periods or from decisions made by corporate executives rather than the managers of the business segments. Depreciation and amortization charges are the result of decisions made in prior periods regarding the allocation of resources and are therefore excluded from the measure. Financing, tax structure and divestiture decisions are generally made by corporate executives. Excluding these items from our business segment performance measure enables us to evaluate business segment operating performance for the current period based upon current economic conditions and decisions made by the managers of those business segments in the current period.
Information regarding the operating performance of our business segments and a reconciliation to our results of operations is as follows:
 
Operating results from our international operations and the costs associated with other interactive and digital business initiatives increased the segment loss at corporate and other by $5.4 million in the third quarter of 2012 and $17.2 million for the year-to-date period of 2012 compared with $2.1 million in the third quarter of 2011 and $4.3 million for the year-to-date period of 2011.
3. SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Our Lifestyle Media division earns revenue primarily from the sale of advertising time on our national television networks, affiliate fees paid by cable and satellite television operators that carry our network programming, the licensing of its content to third parties, the licensing of its brands for consumer products such as books and kitchenware, and from the sale of advertising on our Lifestyle Media affiliated websites.
Supplemental information for Lifestyle Media is as follows:
 
 
4. NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
In addition to the results prepared in accordance with GAAP provided in this release, the Company has presented segment profit. A reconciliation of segment profit to operating income determined in accordance with GAAP for each business segment is as follows:
 
The Company defines free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities less dividends paid to noncontrolling interests and acquisitions of property and equipment. The Company measures free cash flow as it believes it is an important indicator for management and investors as to the Company's liquidity, including its ability to reduce debt, make strategic investments and return capital to shareholders. A reconciliation of free cash flow is as follows:
 
Since segment profit and free cash flow are non-GAAP measures, they should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flow provided by operating activities and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP.


