FILE:SNI/SNI-8K-20121228170213.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 21, 2012, Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. (the "Company") amended its employment agreement with John F. Lansing, President, Scripps Networks, which expires on December 31, 2013. The amendment provides that if Mr. Lansing retires prior to the expiration of the agreement by giving at least 90 days advance notice, he will be entitled to receive normal severance and, as additional severance, the amount that he would have earned from the date of termination through the end of 2013. In addition, Mr. Lansing's 2010 restricted share unit retention award was amended to accelerate the vesting of 40% of the restricted share units subject to the award and to provide that the remainder of the units will vest 1/3 in March 2013, 1/3 in March 2014 and 1/3 in March 2015, but with vesting to accelerate if his employment terminates under circumstances in which he is entitled to receive severance under his employment agreement, as amended.
The foregoing summary of the amendment to Mr. Lansing's employment agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the amendment, which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
December 21, 2012
Mr. John F. Lansing
9721 Sherrill Boulevard
Knoxville, Tennessee 37932
 
Dear John:
This Amendment No. 1 (this "") to your Employment Agreement with Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. (the ""), dated as of March 29, 2010 (the ""), amends the Employment Agreement as expressly stated herein.
Amendment
Company
Employment Agreement
 
 
"For purposes of this Employment Agreement, as amended, including without limitation for purposes of determining the Non-Compete Period in Section 9(a) and your entitlement to severance benefits under Section 10(d) of this Employment Agreement, as amended, Good Reason shall also include an "orderly retirement", which shall mean your voluntary termination with the Company, provided that you notify the Company in writing not less than 90 days in advance of the effective date of termination."
 
"Termination without Cause shall include, without limitation, the termination of your employment upon the expiration of the Term as set forth in paragraph 1 above."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the foregoing correctly sets forth our understanding, please sign, date and return this Amendment to the undersigned.
 


