FILE:SNI/SNI-8K-20120803145928.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 1, 2012, Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. (the "Company") amended its employment agreement with Kenneth W. Lowe, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. The amendment extended the term of Mr. Lowe's employment to December 31, 2015, with an automatic renewal of two successive one year terms unless the Company provides prior notice of its intention not to renew. The amendment also extended Mr. Lowe's right to continued life insurance coverage to 24 months from the date of termination of employment and eliminated Mr. Lowe's right to receive severance, including cash severance and incentives, upon non-renewal of the employment agreement.
The foregoing summary of the employment agreement amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the employment agreement amendment, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 10.3 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
On August 1, 2012, Mr. Lowe was granted 100,000 Restricted Share Units that generally vest 25% on August 1, 2013, 25% on August 1, 2014 and 50% on August 1, 2015 provided he remains in the continuous employment of the Company, with accelerated vesting upon his involuntarily termination (termination without cause or for good reason) or upon a change in control. Mr. Lowe will forfeit the unvested portion of the award upon voluntary termination (without good reason).
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
August 1, 2012
Mr. Kenneth W. Lowe
1036 Craigland Court
Knoxville, TN 37919
 
Dear Ken:
This Amendment No. 2 (this "Amendment") to your Employment Agreement with Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. (the "Company"), dated as of March 29, 2010, as amended as of October 6, 2010 (the "Employment Agreement"), amends the Employment Agreement as expressly stated herein.
 
 
 
 
 
"If, pursuant to paragraph 1, the Company gives proper notice that it does not intend to employ you beyond the expiration of the Term, and your employment hereunder ends as a result, if you execute and do not later revoke or materially violate the Release, Waiver and Non-Compete Agreement in a form materially similar to the document attached hereto as Exhibit A, you will be entitled to the benefits described in paragraphs 10(d)(iv), (v) and (vi)."
 
 
 
If the foregoing correctly sets forth our understanding, please sign, date and return all three copies of this Amendment to the undersigned for execution on behalf of the Company; after this Agreement has been executed by the Company and a fully-executed copy returned to you, it shall constitute a binding agreement between us.
 
 


