FILE:SNI/SNI-8K-20120209095153.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 9, 2012, we released information regarding results of operations for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2011. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.
The information in this Form 8-K and the attached Exhibit is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
On February 9, 2012, the Company announced its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2011. The full text of the press release is set forth in Exhibit 99. The Company has also released certain supplemental financial information that can be accessed through the Company's website at .
www.scrippsnetworksinteractive.com
The information in this Form 8-K and the attached Exhibit as well as the supplemental information referenced above is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 "Regulation FD Disclosure" and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 9, 2012

 
 
 
For immediate release
Feb. 9, 2012
KNOXVILLE, Tenn.  Scripps Networks Interactive Inc. (NYSE: SNI) today reported operating results for the fourth quarter 2011.
Consolidated revenues for the quarter increased 10 percent to $553 million from the prior-year period. Results for the three-month period ended Dec. 31 reflect strong double-digit growth in advertising revenue of $394 million, up 11 percent, and affiliate fee revenue of $147 million, up 5.7 percent year-over-year.
Consolidated expenses for the quarter increased 6.1 percent from the prior-year period to $296 million. The increase was attributable to higher programming amortization expense and fees related to the company's investment in the UKTV partnership.
Fourth-quarter segment profit for the company increased to $257 million, up 14 percent compared with the fourth quarter 2010. (See note 3 for a definition of segment profit).
Fourth-quarter income from continuing operations attributable to Scripps Networks Interactive was $135 million, or $0.84 per share, compared with $123 million, or $0.73 per share, in the fourth quarter 2010.
"The high level of engagement our focused lifestyle networks have created with media consumers, and the value our television and interactive brands deliver to advertisers as preferred marketing platforms, is reflected in the company's strong fourth-quarter operating results," said Kenneth W. Lowe, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Scripps Networks Interactive. "Our consistent track record of double-digit revenue and segment profit growth continued during the three-month period, and contributed to a very good 2011."
Revenues by network are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue from the Lifestyle Media segment's digital businesses, which includes its network-branded Web sites, was $30.4 million, up 4.1 percent.
Full-year Results
Consolidated operating revenue in 2011 was $2.1 billion, up 10 percent from the prior year. Advertising revenue was $1.4 billion, up 11 percent from the prior year. Affiliate fee revenue was $589 million, up 6.1 percent from the prior year.
Segment profit increased to $977 million, up 17 percent from the prior year.
Consolidated income from continuing operations attributable to Scripps Networks Interactive was $473 million, or $2.86 per share compared with $398 million, or $2.37 per share from the prior year.
2012 Full-year Guidance
The company provided the following outlook for 2012.
Total revenue is expected to increase 8 percent to 10 percent.
Programming expenses are expected to increase 13 percent to 15 percent to help drive increased viewership across all of the company's networks.
Non-programming expenses are expected to increase 10 to 12 percent. This increase is related to the company's marketing strategy to increase viewership across its networks. It also includes accelerated investments in developing international, interactive and digital businesses.
Other items
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
Conference call
The senior management team of Scripps Networks Interactive will discuss the company's fourth quarter results during a telephone conference call at 10 a.m. EST today. Scripps Networks Interactive will offer a live webcast of the conference call. To access the webcast, visit and follow the Investor Relations link at the top of the page. The webcast link can be found next to the microphone icon.
www.scrippsnetworksinteractive.com
To access the conference call by telephone, dial 800-230-1951 (U.S.) or 612-332-0335 (international) approximately ten minutes before the start of the call. Callers will need the name of the call, "Fourth Quarter Earnings Call," to be granted access. Callers also will be asked to provide their name and company affiliation. The media and general public are granted access to the conference call on a listen-only basis.
A replay line will be open from 12:30 p.m. EST Feb. 9 until 11:59 p.m. EST Feb. 23. The domestic number to access the replay is 800-475-6701 and the international number is 320-365-3844. The access code for both numbers is 233451. A replay of the conference call will also be available online. To access the audio replay, visit approximately four hours after the call, choose Investor Relations then follow the Audio Archives link on the left side of the page.
www.scrippsnetworksinteractive.com
Forward-looking statements
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements related to the company's businesses that are based on management's current expectations. Forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, trends and uncertainties, including changes in advertising demand and other economic conditions that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. The company's written policy on forward-looking statements can be found on page F-3 of its 2010 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date the statement is made.
About Scripps Networks Interactive
Scripps Networks Interactive is one of the leading developers of lifestyle-oriented content for television and the Internet, where on-air programming is complemented with online video, social media areas and e-commerce components on companion websites and broadband vertical channels. The company's media portfolio includes popular lifestyle television and Internet brands HGTV, Food Network, Travel Channel, DIY Network, Cooking Channel and country music network Great American Country.
 
3
SCRIPPS NETWORKS INTERACTIVE, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
Net income per share amounts may not foot since each is calculated independently.
See notes to results of operations.
SCRIPPS NETWORKS INTERACTIVE, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
SCRIPPS NETWORKS INTERACTIVE, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
1. OTHER CHARGES AND CREDITS
In August 2011, the Company announced that SNI would be acquiring a 50-percent equity interest in UKTV for 239 million and 100 million to acquire the outstanding preferred stock and debt due to Virgin Media, Inc. from UKTV. To minimize the cash flow volatility resulting from British Pound to U.S. dollar currency exchange rate changes, we subsequently entered into foreign currency forward contracts that effectively set the U.S. dollar value for the transaction. We settled these foreign currency exchange forward contracts around the September 30, 2011 closing of the transaction and recognized losses from the contracts totaling $25.3 million. These losses reported within the "Miscellaneous" caption in our consolidated statements of operations reduced year-to-date net income attributable to SNI $15.7 million, $.10 per share.
UKTV 
Operating results in 2011 include transaction related costs of $6.5 million associated with our acquisition of a 50-percent equity interest in UKTV. Net income attributable to SNI was decreased $4.0 million, $.02 per share.
Our tax provision in the fourth quarter of 2011 includes a favorable tax adjustment primarily attributed to expiring statutes of limitations in certain tax jurisdictions and the related reduction of our liability for uncertain tax positions. Net income attributable to SNI was increased $10.5 million, $.07 per share. In the third quarter of 2011, we recorded $14.5 million of favorable income tax adjustments attributed to reaching agreements with certain tax authorities for positions taken in prior period returns and adjustments to foreign income items, state apportionment factors and credits reflected in our filed tax returns. These 2011 income tax adjustments increased year-to-date net income attributable to SNI by $25.0 million, $.15 per share.
Income Tax Adjustments 
During the fourth quarter of 2010, we reached agreement with certain state tax authorities on income tax positions taken in our prior period tax returns. The settlements and related reduction of our liability for uncertain tax positions provided an income tax benefit of $15.7 million in the fourth quarter, increasing net income attributable to SNI by $.09 per share. Our third quarter 2010 tax provision also included a favorable $4.3 million adjustment attributed to changes in both estimated foreign tax credits and state apportionment factors reflected in our filed tax returns. These 2010 income tax adjustments increased year-to-date net income attributable to SNI by $20.0 million, $.12 per share.
During 2010 we completed the rebranding of the Fine Living Network ("FLN") to the Cooking Channel and subsequently contributed the membership interest of the Cooking Channel to the Food Network Partnership (the "Partnership") in August of 2010. In accordance with the terms of the Partnership agreement, the noncontrolling interest owner was required to make a pro-rata capital contribution to maintain its proportionate interest in the Partnership. At the close of our 2010 fiscal year, the noncontrolling owner had not made the required $52.8 million contribution and as a result its ownership interest in the Partnership was diluted from 31 percent to 25 percent. Accordingly, following the Cooking Channel contribution, profits were allocated to the noncontrolling owner at its reduced ownership percentage, reducing net income attributed to noncontrolling interest by $8.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. Net income attributable to SNI in 2010 was increased $4.7 million, $.03 per share.
Food Network Partnership noncontrolling interest 
In February 2011, the noncontrolling owner made the $52.8 million pro-rata contribution to the Partnership and its ownership interest was returned to the pre-dilution percentage as if this pro-rata contribution had been made as of the date of the Cooking Channel contribution. The retroactive impact from restoring the noncontrolling owner's interest in the Partnership increased net income attributed to noncontrolling interest $8.0 million in the first quarter of 2011. Year-to-date net income attributable to SNI in 2011was decreased $4.7 million, $.03 per share.
Operating results in the fourth quarter of 2010 include $2.3 million of transition costs following our acquisition of a controlling interest in the Travel Channel in December of 2009. Net income attributable to SNI for the fourth quarter of 2010 was reduced $0.9 million, $.01 per share.
Travel Channel and other costs 
For the year-to-date period of 2010, these Travel Channel transition costs were $29.9 million. Year-to-date operating results in 2010 also include $11.0 million of marketing and legal expenses incurred to support the company's affiliate agreement renewal negotiations for Food Network and HGTV. These items reduced year-to-date net income attributable to SNI $17.8 million, $.11 per share.
2. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
During the second quarter of 2011, our Board of Directors approved the sale of our Shopzilla business and its related online comparison shopping brands. We received consideration totaling approximately $160 million upon finalizing the sale of the business on May 31, 2011. The Shopzilla business' assets, liabilities and results of operations have been retrospectively presented as discontinued operations within our consolidated financial statements for all periods.
 
Discontinued operations in 2011 reflect a loss on divestiture of $54.8 million related to the sale of the Shopzilla business. No income tax benefit related to the capital losses attributed to the sale has been recognized. Net income attributable to SNI was decreased $.33 per share. If Shopzilla achieves certain performance targets in 2012, we will receive $5 million in contingent cash consideration.
The income tax benefit recorded in 2010 includes a reduction in the valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset resulting from the sale of our uSwitch business in December of 2009. The reduction in the valuation allowance is attributed to the partial utilization of the uSwitch capital loss against capital gains that were generated in periods prior to the Company's separation from The E. W. Scripps Company ("E. W. Scripps"). In accordance with the tax allocation agreement with E. W. Scripps, we were notified in the second quarter of 2010 that these capital gains were available for use by SNI. The income tax benefit increased income from discontinued operations $9.3 million. Net income attributable to SNI was increased $.06 per share.
3. SEGMENT INFORMATION
We determine our business segments based upon our management and internal reporting structure. Our reportable segment, Lifestyle Media, is a strategic business that offers different products and services.
Lifestyle Media includes our national television networks, HGTV, Food Network, Travel Channel, DIY Network, Cooking Channel and Great American Country ("GAC"). Lifestyle Media also includes websites that are associated with the aforementioned television brands and other Internet-based businesses serving food, home and travel related categories. The Food Network and Cooking Channel are included in the Food Network Partnership of which we own approximately 69%. We also own 65% of Travel Channel. Each of our networks is distributed by cable and satellite distributors and telecommunication service providers.
Our chief operating decision maker evaluates the operating performance of our business segments and makes decisions about the allocation of resources to our business segments using a measure we call segment profit. Segment profit excludes interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, divested operating units, restructuring activities, investment results and certain other items that are included in net income determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Refer to Note 5for reconciliations to GAAP measures.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures,
Items excluded from segment profit generally result from decisions made in prior periods or from decisions made by corporate executives rather than the managers of the business segments. Depreciation and amortization charges are the result of decisions made in prior periods regarding the allocation of resources and are therefore excluded from the measure. Financing, tax structure and divestiture decisions are generally made by corporate executives. Excluding these items from our business segment performance measure enables us to evaluate business segment operating performance for the current period based upon current economic conditions and decisions made by the managers of those business segments in the current period.
Information regarding the operating performance of our business segments and a reconciliation to our results of operations is as follows:
 
Corporate includes the results of the lifestyle-oriented channels we operate in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia, operating results from the international licensing of our national networks' programming, and the costs associated with our international expansion initiatives.
Our continued investment in international expansion initiatives increased the segment loss at corporate by $3.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 and $7.4 million for the year-to-date period of 2011 compared with $3.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 and $11.3 million for the year-to-date period of 2010.
Corporate costs in 2011 also include transaction related costs of $6.5 million that were associated with our acquisition of a 50-percent equity interest in UKTV.
4. SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Our Lifestyle Media division earns revenue primarily from the sale of advertising time on our national television networks, affiliate fees paid by cable and satellite television operators that carry our network programming, the licensing of its content to third parties, the licensing of its brands for consumer products such as books and kitchenware, and from the sale of advertising on our Lifestyle Media affiliated websites.
Supplemental information for Lifestyle Media is as follows:
 
 
 
5. NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
In addition to the results prepared in accordance with GAAP provided in this release, the Company has presented segment profit. A reconciliation of segment profit to operating income determined in accordance with GAAP for each business segment is as follows:
 
The Company defines free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities less dividends paid to noncontrolling interests and acquisitions of property and equipment. The Company measures free cash flow as it believes it is an important indicator for management and investors as to the Company's liquidity, including its ability to reduce debt, make strategic investments and return capital to shareholders. A reconciliation of free cash flow is as follows:
 
Since segment profit and free cash flow are non-GAAP measures, they should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flow provided by operating activities and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP.


