Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Statements in this report which are not historical facts are forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements may contain words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, estimates, or other wording indicating future results or expectations. Forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in forward looking statements. Factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Factors That May Affect Future Results below, and elsewhere in this report. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward looking statements to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this report. Overview SanDisk was founded in 1988 to develop and market flash data storage systems. We sell our products to the consumer electronics and industrial/communications markets. In fiscal 2001, approximately 78% of our product sales were attributable to the consumer electronics market, particularly sales of CompactFlash and SmartMedia card products for use in digital camera applications. Our CompactFlash products have lower average selling prices and gross margins than our higher capacity FlashDisk and FlashDrive products. In addition, a substantial portion of our products are sold into the retail channel, which usually has shorter customer order lead times than our other channels. A majority of our sales to the retail channel are turns business, with orders received and fulfilled in the same quarter, thereby decreasing our ability to accurately forecast future production needs. We believe sales to the consumer market will continue to represent a substantial majority of our sales, and may increase as a percentage of sales in future years, as the popularity of consumer applications, including digital cameras, increases. Our operating results are affected by a number of factors including the volume of product sales, competitive pricing pressures, availability of foundry capacity, variations in manufacturing cycle times, fluctuations in manufacturing yields and manufacturing utilization, the timing of significant orders, our ability to match supply with demand, changes in product and customer mix, market acceptance of new or enhanced versions of our products, changes in the channels through which our products are distributed, timing of new product announcements and introductions by us and our competitors, the timing of license and royalty revenues, fluctuations in product costs, increased research and development expenses, and exchange rate fluctuations. We have experienced seasonality in the past. As the proportion of our products sold for use in consumer electronics applications increases, our revenues may become increasingly subject to seasonal increases in the fourth quarter of each year and declines in the first quarter of the following year. See Factors That May Affect Future Results Our Operating Results May Fluctuate Significantly Which May Adversely Affect Our Stock Price and There is Seasonality in Our Business. Beginning in late 1995, we adopted a strategy of licensing our flash technology, including our patent portfolio, to third party manufacturers of flash products. To date, we have entered into patent cross license agreements with several companies, and intend to pursue opportunities to enter into additional licenses. Under our current license agreements, licensees pay license fees, royalties, or a combination thereof. In some cases, the compensation to us may be partially in the form of guaranteed access to flash memory manufacturing capacity from the licensee company. The timing and amount of royalty payments and the recognition of license fees can vary substantially from quarter to quarter depending on the terms of each agreement and, in some cases, the timing of sales of products by the other parties. As a result, license and royalty revenues have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to continue to fluctuate in the future. Given the relatively high gross margins associated with license and royalty revenues, gross margins and net income are likely to fluctuate more with changes in license and royalty revenues than with changes in product revenues. We market our products using a direct sales organization, distributors, manufacturers representatives, private label partners, OEMs and retailers. In 2001, retail sales accounted for 54% of total product revenues, compared to 28% in 2000. We expect that sales through the retail channel will comprise an increasing share of our product revenues in the future, and that a substantial portion of our sales into the retail channel will be made to participants 24 Table of Contents that will have the right to return unsold products. Our policy is to defer recognition of revenues from these sales until the products are sold to the end customers. Historically, a majority of our sales have been to a limited number of customers. Sales to our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 49%, 48%, and 57%, respectively, of our product revenues for 2001, 2000, and 1999. In 2001 and 2000, no single customer accounted for greater than 10% of our total revenues. In 1999, revenues from one customer exceeded 10% of our total revenues. We expect that sales of our products to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our product revenues for the foreseeable future. We have also experienced significant changes in the composition of our customer base from year to year and expect this pattern to continue as market demand for our customers products fluctuates. The loss of, or a significant reduction in purchases by any of our major customers, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Factors That May Affect Future Results Sales to a Small Number of Customers Represent a Significant Portion of Our Revenues. All of our products require silicon wafers, the majority of which are currently manufactured for us by Toshibas wafer facility at Yokkaichi, Japan, under our joint venture agreement, as well as UMC in Taiwan. Industry wide demand for semiconductors decreased significantly in 2001, due to decreased demand in the cellular phone markets and the broad, general economic downturn leading to a US recession. Semiconductor manufacturers, including some of our suppliers and competitors, added new advanced wafer fab capacity prior to the downturn. This additional capacity, along with slowing economic conditions, resulted in excess supply and led to intense pricing pressure. From the fourth quarter of 2000 to the fourth quarter of 2001, the average sales price per megabyte we sold decreased by 68%, far in excess of our ability to reduce our cost per megabyte. Consequently we saw a dramatic reduction in our product gross margins, which resulted in substantial operating losses in 2001. If industry wide demand for our products continues to be below the industry wide available supply, our product prices could decrease further causing our operating losses to continue in 2002. Under our wafer supply agreements, there are limits on the number of wafers we can order and our ability to change that quantity, either up or down, is restricted. Accordingly, our ability to react to significant fluctuations in demand for our products is limited. If customer demand falls below our forecast and we are unable to reschedule or cancel our orders for wafers or other long lead time items such as controller chips or printed circuit boards, we may end up with excess inventories, which could result in higher operating expenses and reduced gross margins. If customer demand exceeds our forecasts, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of wafers to fill customer orders, which could result in lost sales and lower revenues. If we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of flash memory wafers with acceptable prices and yields from our current and future wafer foundries, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. We have from time to time taken write downs for excess or obsolete inventories and lower of cost or market price adjustments. In 2001, such write downs and lower of cost or market adjustments were approximately $85.0 million. We may be forced to take additional write downs for excess or obsolete inventory in future quarters if the current deterioration in market demand for our products continues and our inventory levels continue to exceed customer orders. In addition, we may record additional lower of cost or market price adjustments to our inventories if continued pricing pressure results in a net realizable value that is lower than our cost. Although we continuously try to reduce our inventory in line with the current level of business, we are obligated to honor existing purchase orders, which we have placed with our suppliers. In the case of FlashVision manufacturing, both we and Toshiba are obligated to purchase their share of the production output, which makes it more difficult for us to reduce our inventory. Excess inventory not only ties up our cash, but also can result in substantial losses if such inventory, or large portions thereof, has to be revalued due to lower market pricing or product obsolescence. These inventory adjustments decrease gross margins and in 2001 resulted in, and could in the future result in, fluctuations in gross margins and net earnings in the quarter in which they occur. See Factors That May Affect Future Results Our Operating Results May Fluctuate Significantly. Export sales are an important part of our business, representing 55%, 57% and 53% of our total revenues in 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively. Our sales may be impacted by changes in economic conditions in our international markets. Economic conditions in our international markets, including Japan, Asia and the European Union, may adversely affect our revenues to the extent that demand for our products in these regions declines. While most of our 25 Table of Contents sales are denominated in U.S. Dollars, we invoice certain Japanese customers in Japanese Yen and are subject to exchange rate fluctuations on these transactions which could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Factors That May Affect Future Results Our international operations make us vulnerable to changing conditions and currency fluctuations. For the foreseeable future, we expect to realize a significant portion of our revenues from recently introduced and new products. Typically, new products initially have lower gross margins than more mature products because the manufacturing yields are lower at the start of manufacturing each successive product generation. In addition, manufacturing yields are generally lower at the start of manufacturing any product at a new foundry. In 2001, we experienced start up costs of approximately $22.0 million associated with ramping up NAND wafer production at FlashVision . During the start up phase, the fabrication equipment and operating expenses are applied to a relatively small output of production wafers, making this output very expensive. To remain competitive, we are focusing on a number of programs to lower manufacturing costs, including development of future generations of NAND flash memory. There can be no assurance that we will successfully develop such products or processes or that development of such processes will lower manufacturing costs. If the current industry wide and worldwide economic slowdown continues throughout fiscal 2002, we may be unable to efficiently utilize the NAND flash wafer production from FlashVision, which would force us to amortize the fixed costs of the fabrication facility over a reduced wafer output, making these wafers significantly more expensive. See Factors That May Affect Future Results We must achieve acceptable manufacturing yields. Critical Accounting Policies & Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to customer programs and incentives, product returns, bad debts, inventories, investments, income taxes, warranty obligations, restructuring, and contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue recognition. We recognize net revenues when the earnings process is complete, as evidenced by an agreement with the customer, transfer of title and acceptance if applicable, fixed pricing and collectibility is reasonably assured. Because of frequent sales price reductions and rapid technology obsolescence in the industry, sales made to distributors and retailers under agreements allowing price protection and or right of return are deferred until the retailers or distributors sell the merchandise. Customer Incentives, Returns and Allowances. We record estimated reductions to revenue for customer programs and incentive offerings including promotions and other volume based incentives, when these programs are granted to our customers. These incentives generally apply only to our retail customers, which represented 75% of our product revenues in fourth quarter of 2001. If market conditions were to decline, we may take actions to increase customer incentive offerings to our retail customers, possibly resulting in an incremental reduction of revenue at the time the incentive is offered. In addition, we record a provision for estimated sales returns and allowances on product sales in the same period as the related revenues are recorded. Our reserve for returns was not material at December 31, 2001 and 2000. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Methodology. We evaluate the collectibility of our accounts receivable based on a combination of factors. In circumstances where we are aware of a specific customers inability to meet its financial obligations to us (e.g., bankruptcy filings, substantial down grading of credit ratings), we record a specific reserve for bad debts against amounts due to reduce the net recognized receivable to the amount we reasonably believe will be collected. For all other customers, we recognize reserves for bad debts based on the length of time the receivables are past due based on our historical experience. If circumstances change (i.e., higher than expected 26 Table of Contents defaults or an unexpected material adverse change in a major customers ability to meet its financial obligations to us), our estimates of the recoverability of amounts due us could be reduced by a material amount. Warranty Costs. We provide for the estimated cost of product warranties at the time revenue is recognized. While we engage in product quality programs and processes, our warranty obligation is affected by product failure rates and repair or replacement costs incurred in correcting a product failure. Should actual product failure rates, repair or replacement costs differ from our estimates, increases to our warranty liability would be required. Valuation of Financial Instruments. Our short term investments include investments in marketable equity and debt securities. We also have equity investments in semiconductor wafer manufacturing companies, UMC of $194.9 million and Tower of $16.6 million, as of December 31, 2001. In determining if and when a decline in market value below amortized cost of these investments is other than temporary, we evaluate the market conditions, offering prices, trends of earnings, price multiples, and other key measures for our investments in marketable equity securities and debt instruments. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, we recognize an impairment loss in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. Due to the slowdown in the semiconductor industry and economic recession in 2001, the market value of our UMC and Tower investments declined significantly. These declines were deemed to be other than temporary and losses totaling $302.3 were recognized. If the slowdown in the semiconductor industry continues in 2002, we may recognize additional losses on these investments. Inventories Slow Moving and Obsolescence. We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of the inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions, including assumptions about changes in average selling prices. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs may be required. Use of Estimates. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from our estimates. Deferred Tax Assets. As of December 31, 2001, we had a net deferred tax asset of approximately $36 million that has been fully offset by a valuation allowance. Due to our current losses, we have not used projections of future taxable income in determining the amount of the valuation allowance required. Results of Operations We operate in one business segment, flash memory products. Our products are sold throughout the world. In the United States and foreign countries our products are sold through direct, OEM, reseller, and distributor channels. Our chief decision maker, the President and Chief Executive Officer, evaluate our performance based on total our results. Revenue is evaluated based on geographic region and product category. Separate financial information is not available by product category in regards to asset allocation, expense allocation, or profitability. Product Revenues. In 2001, our product revenues were $316.9 million, a decrease of 40% from $526.4 million in 2000. The decrease was primarily due to the downturn in the worldwide economy, industry wide excess supply of flash memory, and reduced demand from OEM customers who were liquidating existing inventories throughout most of 2001. All of these factors reduced the demand for our products and resulted in intense pricing pressures causing the average selling price of our products to decline significantly. In 2001, the largest decline in revenues came from MultiMediaCards, due to the slowdown in the market for digital music players and CompactFlash, due to the decline in average selling price. In 2001, our flash memory product unit sales declined 19% and our average selling price per megabyte of flash memory shipped declined 50% compared to 2000. However, the decline in average selling price per megabyte was even more severe, at 68%, when comparing the fourth quarter of 2001 to the same period in 2000. In 2000, our product revenues increased 156% to $526.4 million from $205.8 million in 1999. The increase consisted of an increase of 173% in unit sales, which was partially offset by a 7% decline in average selling prices 27 Table of Contents per unit. In 2000, the largest increase in unit volume came from sales of CompactFlash products that represented 47% of product revenues and MultiMediaCard products that represented 21% of product revenues. The continuing move towards higher capacity cards in 2000 partially offset a decline in the average selling price per megabyte of capacity shipped. In 2000, the average megabyte capacity per unit shipped increased 17% while the average selling price per megabyte of flash memory shipped declined 22% compared to the prior year. Our backlog as of December 31, 2001 was $19.5 million compared to $63.3 million in 2000 and $157.2 million in 1999. The decrease in 2001 was primarily due to a reduction in orders from our OEM customers and a significant reduction in order lead times due to industry wide overcapacity. Because of the deterioration in market conditions throughout most of 2001, our quarterly turns business, the business we book and ship in the same quarter, reached approximately 80% of our product shipments in the third and fourth quarters of 2001. In 2001, OEM sales decreased to 34% of product revenues in 2001, compared to 57% in 2000. Retail sales, which are typically booked and shipped in the same quarter, increased to 54% of our product revenues, compared to 28% in 2000. In the fourth quarter of 2001, sales through our retail channels accounted for approximately 75% of product revenues.We expect sales to the retail channel to continue to be a significant portion of our revenue in 2002. See Factors That May Affect Future Results Our Operating Results May Fluctuate Significantly and There is Seasonality in Our Business.Since orders constituting our current backlog are subject to changes in delivery schedules or cancellations, backlog is not necessarily an indication of future revenue. License and Royalty Revenues. We currently earn patent license fees and royalties under several cross license agreements, including agreements with Hitachi, Intel, Lexar, Sharp, Samsung, SmartDisk, Sony, SST, TDK and Toshiba. License and royalty revenues from patent cross license agreements were $49.4 million in 2001, compared to $75.5 million in 2000 and $41.2 million in 1999. The decrease in license and royalty revenues in 2001 was primarily due to lower patent royalties from lower royalty bearing sales by some of our licensees resulting in decreased patent license revenues recognized. The increase in license and royalty revenues in 2000 was primarily due to patent royalties from increased sales by certain of our licensees, and $4.7 million of revenue recognized in conjunction with the settlement of the Lexar litigation. Revenues from licenses and royalties were 13% of total revenues in 2001 and 2000, and 17% in 1999. Our income from patent licenses and royalties can fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. A substantial portion of this income comes from royalties based on the actual sales by our licensees. Given the current market outlook for 2002, sales of licensed flash products by our licensees may be lower than the corresponding sales in recent quarters, which may cause a drop in our royalty revenues. Gross Profits (Losses). In fiscal 2001, gross profits declined to negative $26.0 million, or negative 7% of total revenues from $244.8 million, or 41% of total revenues in 2000 and $94.8 million, or 38% of total revenues in 1999. Product gross margins decreased to negative 24% in 2001, from positive 32% in 2000 and positive 26% in 1999. The decline in gross margins in 2001 was primarily due to lower sales volume, severely reduced average selling prices, inventory write downs of approximately $85.0 million and start up costs associated with our FlashVision foundry joint venture of approximately $22.0 million. The increases in gross margins in 2000 were primarily due to the lower cost per megabyte of our 256 megabit flash memory products, which represented the majority of our product sales in 2000. Due to weak economic conditions, excess supply in the markets for our products and lower demand from customers as they continued to reduce their inventories, we experienced intense pricing pressures in 2001. We expect our average selling prices per megabyte to decline significantly in 2002 and possibly beyond, until market supply and demand for our products returns to equilibrium. Although we are taking significant steps to lower our product costs, given the current market conditions, we cannot guarantee that our product cost will decline as quickly as our average selling prices. If our average selling prices decline faster than our costs, our gross margin will be negatively impacted in 2002. Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist principally of salaries and payroll related expenses for design and development engineers, prototype supplies and contract services. Research and development expenses increased to $58.9 million in 2001 from $46.1 million in 2000 and $26.9 million in 1999. As a percentage of revenues, research and development expenses were 16% in 2001, 8% in 2000 and 11% in 1999. In 28 Table of Contents 2001, the change was primarily due to an increase of $13.3 million in project related expenses.The additional project expenses in 2001 were to support the development of new generations of NAND flash data storage products. In 2000 the increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to an increase in salaries and payroll related expenses associated with additional personnel of $9.4 million and an increase in project related expenses of $3.9 million. We expect our research and development expenses to continue to increase in future quarters to support the development and introduction of new generations of flash data storage products, including our joint venture with Toshiba, our co development agreement with Sony and our development of advanced controller chips. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses include salaries, sales commissions, benefits and travel expenses for our sales, marketing, customer service and applications engineering personnel. These expenses also include other selling and marketing expenses such as independent manufacturers representative commissions, advertising and tradeshow expenses. Sales and marketing expenses decreased to $42.6 million in 2001 from $49.3 million in 2000 and $25.3 million in 1999. The decrease in 2001 was primarily due to a decrease of $5.6 million commission expenses due to lower product revenues, a decrease in marketing expenses of $1.1 million and a reduction of $0.7 million in travel expenses. The increase in 2000 was primarily due to an increase of $6.0 million in salaries and payroll related expense, an increase of $5.7 commission expenses due to higher product revenues and an increase of $8.0 million in marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses represented 12% of total revenues in 2001 compared to 8% in 2000 and 10% in 1999. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase as sales of our products grow and as we continue to develop the retail channel and brand awareness for our products. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses include the cost of our finance, information systems, human resources, shareholder relations, legal and administrative functions. General and administrative expenses were $17.0 million in 2001 compared to $24.8 million in 2000 and $12.6 million in 1999. The decrease in 2001 was primarily due to a decrease of $3.2 million in legal fees, a reduction of $3.2 million in the allowance for doubtful accounts related to lower accounts receivable balances and a decrease of $0.7 million in salaries and related expenses associated with reduced headcount. The increase in 2000 was primarily due to an increase of $4.5 million in salaries and related expenses associated with additional personnel, an increase of $6.5 million in legal fees and an increase of $3.0 million in the allowance for doubtful accounts associated with higher trade accounts receivable balances from increased revenues. General and administrative expenses represented 5% of total revenues in 2001 compared to 4% in 2000 and 5% in 1999. General and administrative expenses could increase in the future if we pursue litigation to defend our patent portfolio and grow our infrastructure to support our growth. See Factors That May Affect Future Results Risks Associated with Patents, Proprietary Rights and Related Litigation. Restructuring Charges. In the third quarter of 2001, we adopted a plan to transfer all of our card assembly and test manufacturing operations from our Sunnyvale location to offshore subcontractors. As a result we recorded a restructuring charge of $8.5 million. The charge included $1.1 million of severance and employee related costs for a reduction in workforce of approximately 193 personnel, equipment write off charges of $6.4 million and lease commitments of $1.0 million on a vacated warehouse facility. See Note 10 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. As a part of our plan to transfer all card assembly and test manufacturing operations to offshore subcontractors, we abandoned excess equipment and recorded a charge of $6.4 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2001. We are attempting to sublease one warehouse building in San Jose, California. Given the current real estate market conditions in the San Jose area, we do not expect to be able to sublease this building before the end of 2003 and as a result, we recorded a charge of $1.0 million in the third quarter of 2001. Of the $8.5 million restructuring charge, cash payments of $0.8 million were paid in 2001. After writing off certain non cash charges, accruals of $1.7 million remain as of December 31, 2001, primarily related to severance and benefits to be paid out during fiscal 2002 and excess facility charges, which will be paid over the respective lease terms. We believe that the savings resulting from the restructuring activity will contribute to a reduction in manufacturing and operating expense levels of approximately $11.8 million in fiscal 2002. Equity in Income of Joint Venture. In 2001, equity in income of joint ventures of $2.1 million included our share of net income from our FlashVision joint venture and losses from our DPI joint venture. 29 Table of Contents Interest Income/Expense. Interest income was $12.3 million in 2001 compared to $22.8 million in 2000 and $8.3 million in 1999. The decrease in 2001 was primarily due to a reduction in cash and investment balances resulting from cash used by operations and strategic investments in Tower Semiconductor and FlashVision. In addition, overall market interest rates were lower in 2001 due to reductions in the Federal funds rate. We expect interest income to decline and interest expense to increase in 2002 relative to 2001 due to interest expense payable on the convertible notes issued in late 2001 and early 2002 and the continuing impact of the reduction in the Federal funds rate in the fourth quarter of 2001. Loss on investment in foundries. The market value of our investments in UMC and Tower Semiconductor have declined significantly due to the downturn in the economy and excess supply in the semiconductor industry. We determined that the decline in value of these investments was other than temporary and losses were recorded in 2001. In our determination of the substantial and other than temporary decline in the value of our investments in UMC and Tower, we considered the substantial and sustained decline in the companies share price, the financial condition and results of operations of each company and the down turn in the semiconductor industry and economy in general. The value of our investment in UMC had declined to $194.9 million at December 31, 2001. We recorded a loss of $275.8 million on our UMC investment in 2001, or $166.9 million net of taxes, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards Number 115. If the fair value of our UMC investment declines further, it may be necessary to record additional losses. In addition, in future periods, if our UMC shares are sold, there may be a gain or loss, due to fluctuations in the market value of UMCs stock. The value of our Tower investment and wafer credits had declined to $16.6 million at December 31, 2001. A loss of $20.6 million, which included the write off of wafer credits received, was recognized in 2001. In addition, we recorded a loss of $5.5 million on our exchange of 75% of our Tower wafer credits for 1,284,007 ordinary shares at $12.75 per share. These losses totaling $26.1 million, or $15.8 million net of tax benefit, were recorded in loss on foundry investment in 2001. If the fair value of our Tower investment declines further, it may be necessary to record additional losses. We periodically assess the value of prepaid wafer credits for recoverability and write down the value as necessary. Other Income (Loss), Net. Other Income (Loss), net was a loss of $1.0 million in 2001 compared to income of $572,000 in 2000 and income of $1.3 million in 1999. The loss in 2001 was primarily due to foreign currency transaction losses on our Yen denominated assets. Other income in 2000 and 1999 came primarily from foreign currency transaction gains. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes. Our 2001 effective tax benefit rate was approximately 33%, while our 2000 and 1999 effective tax rates were approximately 39% and 33%, respectively. Our 2001 tax benefit was generated primarily from our ability to benefit from the 2001 net operating loss using carryback capacity along with the unrealized gain on our investment in UMC shares. The 2001 tax benefit is limited to the amount of tax refund that we will receive from our loss carryback and the amount available to offset unrealized tax gains related to the UMC investment. As of December 31, 2001, we had recorded the maximum carryback benefit available and therefore future losses may not give rise to a current tax benefit. Our assessment of the amount of valuation allowance required will be influenced by the amount of unrealized tax gains on investments. Any increase in the mark to market value of the investments may result in the recognition of some portion of the valuation allowance. This may cause the interim tax rate to fluctuate significantly. Liquidity and Capital Resources At December 31, 2001, we had working capital of $415.1 million, which included $189.4 million in unrestricted cash and unrestricted cash equivalents and $105.5 million in unrestricted short term investments, excluding our investment in UMC. Under the terms of the FlashVision lease agreement, we as guarantor are required to pledge cash and equity securities up to the full value of the outstanding lease commitments guaranteed by us. As of December 31, 2001, we had guaranteed $129.5 million of FlashVisions lease commitments and pledged $64.7 million of cash and cash equivalents and $64.7 million of our UMC equity securities. This pledged cash and cash 30 Table of Contents equivalents and marketable equity securities are included in Restricted cash and cash equivalents and Restricted investment in UMC on our balance sheet. Operating activities used $72.1 million of cash in 2001 primarily due to our net loss, an increase in deferred tax assets of $134.5 million, a decrease in accounts payable of $39.2 million, and a decrease in deferred revenue of $34.9 million. These were partially offset by cash provided by a decline in accounts receivable of $51.2 million a reduction in inventories of $40.6 million and an increase in other current liabilities, related party of $31.3 million. Cash provided by operations was $84.9 million 2000 and $17.0 million in 1999. Net cash provided by investing activities was $25.1 million in 2001. Proceeds from net sales of investments of $155.5 million were partially offset by $15.0 million invested in FlashVision, our foundry joint venture with Toshiba, $42.5 million invested in Tower, $2.0 million invested in DPI, our joint venture with Photo Me International and $26.2 million of capital equipment purchases. Net cash used in investing activities was $137.9 million in 2000 and $214.4 million in 1999. Net cash provided by financing activities was $130.2 million in 2001, which included the $121.5 million net proceeds from the issuance of long term convertible subordinated notes in the fourth quarter of 2001, and $8.6 million from the sale of common stock through our stock option and employee stock purchase plans.In 2000, financing activities provided $13.2 million and $328.2 million in 1999. On December 24, 2001, we completed a private placement of $125.0 million of 4 % Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2006, or Notes, and on January 10, 2002, the initial purchasers completed the exercise of their option to purchase an additional $25.0 million of Notes, for which we received net proceeds of approximately $145.9 million. Based on the aggregate principal amount at maturity of $150.0 million, the Notes provide for semi annual interest payments of $3.4 million each on May 15 and November 15. The Notes are convertible into shares of our common stock at any time prior to the close of business on the maturity date, unless previously redeemed or repurchased, at a conversion rate of 54.2535 shares per $1,000 principal amount of the Notes, subject to adjustment in certain events. At anytime on or after November 17, 2004, we may redeem the notes in whole or in part at a specified percentage of the principal amount plus accrued interest. The debt issuance costs are being amortized over the term of the Notes using the interest method. We intend to fulfill our debt service obligations from cash generated by our operations, if any, and from our existing cash and investments. If necessary, among other alternatives, we may add lease lines of credit to finance capital expenditures and obtain other long term debt and lines of credit. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our debt service obligations, including our obligations under the Notes. In January 2000, the USIC foundry was merged into the UMC parent company. In exchange for our USIC shares, we received 111 million UMC shares. These shares were valued at approximately $396 million at the time of the merger, resulting in a pretax gain of $344.2 million ($203.9 million after tax) in the first quarter of 2000. All of the UMC shares we received as a result of the merger were subject to trading restrictions imposed by UMC and the Taiwan Stock Exchange. As of December 31, 2001, the trading restrictions had expired on 66.7 million shares. The remaining 44.4 million shares will become available for sale over a two year period beginning in January 2002. We also received 20.0 million and 22.2 million shares as stock dividends from UMC in 2001 and 2000. Due to the decline in UMC stock price from the weakness in the semiconductor industry, the value of the Companys investment in UMC had declined to $194.9 at December 31, 2001. In 2001, it was determined that the decline in the market value of the investment was other than temporary, as defined by generally accepted accounting principles and a loss of $275.8 million, or $166.9 million net of taxes was recorded in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards Number 115. The loss was included in loss on investment in foundry. If the fair value of the UMC investment declines further, it may be necessary to record additional losses. In addition, in future periods, there may be a gain or loss due to fluctuations in the market value of UMC stock or if UMC shares are sold. On June 30, 2000, we closed a transaction with Toshiba providing for the joint development and manufacture of 512 megabit and 1 gigabit flash memory chips and Secure Digital Card controllers. As part of this transaction, SanDisk and Toshiba formed FlashVision, a joint venture to equip and operate a silicon wafer manufacturing line at Dominion Semiconductor in Virginia. In January 2001, we invested the final $15.0 million of our $150.0 million cash commitment in FlashVision. We are obligated to guarantee one half of all FlashVision lease amounts up to a 31 Table of Contents maximum guarantee of $175.0 million. As of December 31, 2001, we had guarantee obligations in the amount of $129.5 million, with ABN AMRO Bank, N.V. as agent for a syndicate of financial institutions, on the equipment lease lines to equip FlashVisions manufacturing clean room with advanced wafer processing equipment. Although FlashVision recently terminated the ABN AMRO lease facility, as further discussed below, under the terms of the FlashVision lease agreements, we as guarantor were subject to certain financial covenants. We obtained a compliance waiver for the third quarter of 2001 and negotiated an amendment to the lease agreement which included a modification of the covenant requirements and required us to pledge cash and equity securities up to the full value of the outstanding guaranteed lease commitments. As of December 31, 2001, we had pledged cash of $64.7 million and UMC equity securities of $64.7 million. While these assets were pledged, they were not available to us to be used to fund operations. In December 2001, we signed a binding memorandum of understanding, or MOU, with Toshiba under which we and Toshiba agreed to restructure our FlashVision business by consolidating our FlashVision advanced NAND wafer fabrication manufacturing operations at Toshibas memory fabrication facility at Yokkaichi, Japan. In April 2002, we and Toshiba finalized certain agreements related to the restructuring. The Yokkaichi fabrication facility, or Yokkaichi, is Toshibas most advanced memory fabrication facility and has approximately twice the wafer fabrication capacity of Dominion. Through this consolidation, we expect Yokkaichi to provide more cost competitive NAND flash wafers than is possible at Dominion. Under the terms of the agreements, Toshiba will transfer the FlashVision owned and leased NAND production tool set from Dominion to Yokkaichi and has agreed to bear substantially all of the costs associated with the equipment transfers, which are expected to be completed in 2002. Once the consolidation is completed, Yokkaichis total NAND wafer output will match the combined prior NAND capacity of Yokkaichi and Dominion. The FlashVision operation at Yokkaichi will continue essentially the same 50 50 joint venture and on essentially the same terms as it has had at Dominion in Virginia. Under our joint venture agreement, we are contractually obligated, and expect to continue to be obligated after the restructuring of our FlashVision joint venture, to purchase half of FlashVisions NAND wafer production output. In March 2002, FlashVision notified ABN AMRO that it was exercising its right of early termination under the lease facility and repaid all amounts outstanding thereunder in April 2002. Accordingly, we are no longer subject to the financial covenants or collateralization requirements of the ABN AMRO bank lease. FlashVision completed interim financing in the form of a bridge loan from Toshiba in April 2002 and we anticipate that FlashVision will finalize a new equipment lease arrangement by the end of the second quarter of 2002. The transfer and qualification of the advanced fabrication equipment from Dominion, Virginia to Yokkaichi, Japan is a highly complex operation. It is quite possible that we may encounter difficulties and delays. Although the additional costs associated with these potential delays will generally be borne by Toshiba, our results of operations may suffer if this equipment transfer is not completed on time and production does not commence at Yokkaichi as planned, thereby reducing the total NAND production capacity available to us. On July 4, 2000, we entered into a share purchase agreement to make a $75.0 million investment in Tower, in Israel, representing approximately 10% ownership of Tower. The investment is subject to the completion of certain milestones. During 2001, Tower satisfied the closing conditions of the share purchase agreement and completed the first two milestones. Under the terms of the agreement, we invested $42.5 million to purchase 1,599,931 ordinary shares and obtain wafer credits of $21.4 million. In September 2001, we agreed to convert 75% of our wafer credits to equity at a price of $12.75 per share and received an additional 1,284,007 ordinary shares. Due to the continued weakness in the semiconductor industry, the value of our Tower investment and remaining wafer credits had declined to $16.6 million at December 31, 2001. It was determined that this decline was other than temporary, as defined by generally accepted accounting principles and a loss of $20.6 million was recorded in the second half of 2001. In addition we recognized a loss of $5.5 million on the exchange of 75% of our Tower wafer credits for 1,284,007 ordinary shares at $12.75 per share. These losses totaling $26.1 million, or $15.8 million net of tax benefit were recorded in loss on foundry investment in 2001. Under our original agreement, additional contributions by us will take the form of mandatory warrant exercises for ordinary shares at an exercise price of $30.00 per share if other milestones are met by Tower. The warrants will expire five years from the date of grant, and in the event the key milestones are not achieved, the exercise of these warrants will not be mandatory. However, in March 2002, we modified our share purchase agreement with Tower by agreeing to advance the payments for the third and fourth milestones to April 5, 2002 and October 1, 2002, respectively. The payment for the third milestone of $11.0 million was paid on April 5, 2002 and the payment for the fourth milestone of $11.0 million will be paid on October 1, 2002. We will make this payment whether or not Tower actually achieves its previously agreed upon milestone obligations. In exchange for this, and as part of the modification to the share purchase agreement, Tower has agreed that of the aggregate payment of $22.0 million 32 Table of Contents represented by the third and fourth milestone payments, (i) 60% of this amount, or $13.2 million, will be applied to the issuance of additional ordinary Tower shares based on the average closing price of Tower shares on the NASDAQ in the thirty consecutive trading days preceding each payment date, referred to as the ATP, (provided, however, that pursuant to the purchase agreement as modified, the ATP shall not exceed $12.50 per share) and (ii) 40% of this amount, or $8.8 million, will be credited to our pre paid wafer account, to be applied against orders placed with Towers new fabrication facility, when completed; provided, however, that until July 1, 2005, these amounts added to the pre paid wafer account may only be applied towards a maximum of 7.5% of wafer purchases. As a result of our investment of $11.0 million for the third milestone, we received 1,071,497 additional Tower ordinary shares and $4.4 million in prepaid wafer credits. On a quarterly basis, we will assess the value of the prepaid wafer credits considering the timing and quantity of our planned wafer purchases from Tower, the contractual limitations on the amount of wafer credits that can be applied to purchases on an annual basis, the status of foundry construction and general economic conditions. If we determine that the value of these wafer credits is not recoverable, we will record a write down. Currently, we expect Tower to supply us a portion of the ASIC controller chips used in our flash cards. We currently expect first wafer production to commence at the new fabrication facility in the first half of 2003. Towers completion of the wafer foundry facility is dependent on its ability to obtain additional financing for the foundry construction from equity and other sources and the release of grants and approvals for changes in grant programs from the Israel governments Investment Center. If Tower is unable to obtain additional financing, complete foundry construction in a timely manner or successfully complete the development and transfer of advanced CMOS process technologies and ramp up of production, the value of our investment in Tower will decline significantly or possibly become worthless and we may be unable to obtain the wafers needed to manufacture our products, which would harm our results of operations. In addition, the value of our investment in Tower may be adversely affected by a further deterioration of conditions in the market for foundry manufacturing services and the market for semiconductor products generally. If the fair value of the Tower investment declines further, it may be necessary to record additional losses. On August 9, 2000, we entered into a joint venture, DPI, with PMI for the manufacture, installation, marketing, and maintenance of self service, digital photo printing labs, or kiosks, bearing the SanDisk brand name in locations in the U.S. and Canada. Under the agreement, we invested $2.0 million. In April 2002, we and PMI agreed that SanDisk would scale down its kiosk activities while PMI will assume responsibility to finance and direct the future growth of DPI. Under the new agreement, we will convert approximately $400,000 in receivables due from DPI to equity in DPI and will no longer be required to make additional equity investments in DPI or guarantee DPIs equipment leases. DPI has experienced delays in its U.S. market rollout of the kiosks, due primarily to modifications to improve the kiosks operation as a standalone, reliable, user friendly photo printing device. These delays have provided opportunities for several competitors to enter the digital photo printing market with alternative products, which may offer more attractive features or lower costs than the DPI kiosks. We cannot assure you that these kiosks, if and when they are introduced, will function reliably as intended, or that they will receive favorable acceptance from consumers. If DPI is unsuccessful, our investment may become worthless, requiring us to record a loss equal to the total amount invested. We account for this investment under the equity method, and recorded a loss of $1.4 million as our share of the equity in loss of joint venture in 2001. On November 2, 2000, we made a strategic investment of $7.2 million in Divio, Inc., or Divio. Divio is a privately held manufacturer of digital imaging compression technology and products for future digital camcorders that will be capable of using our flash memory cards to store home video movies, replacing the magnetic tape currently used in these systems. Under the agreement, we own approximately 10% of Divio and are entitled to one board seat. A number of companies are developing compression chip products that may be superior to, or may be offered at a lower cost than the Divio chips. These competing products may render Divios products uncompetitive and thereby significantly reduce the value of our investment in Divio. 33 Table of Contents The following summarizes our contractual obligations and off balance sheet arrangements at December 31, 2001, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods (in thousands). Total Less Than 1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years After 5 Years CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS: Convertible subordinated notes payable (See Note 4.) $ 125,000 (1) $ $ $ 125,000 $ Operating leases 10,754 2,623 4,838 3,293 Purchase commitments for flash memory wafers 32,500 32,500 Total contractual cash obligations $ 168,254 $ 35,123 $ 4,838 $ 128,293 $ (1) On January 10, 2002, we sold an additional $25.0 million of the Notes pursuant to the exercise by the initial purchasers of their option. As of December 31, 2001 OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS: Guarantee of FlashVision foundry equipment lease $ 129,500 Depending on the demand for our products, we may decide to make additional investments, which could be substantial, in assembly and test manufacturing equipment or foundry capacity to support our business in the future. We may also invest in or acquire other companies product lines or assets. Our operating expenses may increase as a result of the need to hire additional personnel to support our sales and marketing efforts and research and development activities, including our collaboration with Toshiba for the joint development of 512 megabit and 1 gigabit flash memory chips and Sony for the joint development of the next generation Memory Stick. We plan to fund our short term operations from our current cash and short term investment balances and cash generated from operations. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents and short term investments will be sufficient to meet our currently anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements for the next twelve months. However, if our average product selling prices continue to decline significantly, as they did in 2001, or demand for our products declines and we are required to purchase more wafers than we need due to our FlashVison joint venture commitments, we may not be able to generate enough cash from our operations and will have to rely solely on our current cash and short term investment balances to fund our operating activities. Impact of Currency Exchange Rates A portion of our revenues is denominated in Japanese Yen. We enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge against changes in foreign currency exchange rates. At December 31, 2001, one forward contract with a notional amount of $9.8 million was outstanding. No forward contacts were outstanding at December 31, 2000. Future exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 141, Business Combinations and No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS No. 141 supersedes Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion 16 Business Combinations and SFAS No. 38 Accounting for Pre acquisition Contingencies, and eliminates the pooling of interests method of accounting for business combinations except for qualifying business combinations that were initiated prior to July 1, 2001. SFAS No. 141 also includes new criteria to recognize intangible assets separately from goodwill. The requirements of SFAS 141 are effective for any business combination accounted for by the purchase method that is completed after June 30, 2001 (i.e., the acquisition date is July 1, 2001 or after). We did not engage in any merger or acquisition 34 Table of Contents activity during the year and therefore, application of SFAS 141 is not expected to have a material impact on results of operation and financial position in 2002. SFAS No. 142, supersedes APB Opinion No. 17, Intangible Assets, and states that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are no longer amortized but are reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. Separable intangible assets that are not deemed to have an indefinite life will continue to be amortized over their useful lives. The discontinuing of amortization provisions under SFAS No. 142 of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets apply to assets acquired after June 30, 2001. In addition, the impairment provisions of SFAS 142 apply to assets acquired prior to July 1, 2001 upon adoption of SFAS 142. Application of the non amortization provisions and changes in estimated useful lives of intangibles of FAS 142 for goodwill is not expected to have a material impact on results of operation and financial position in 2002. In October 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets (SFAS No. 144), which supersedes SFAS No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to be disposed of. The primary objective of SFAS No. 144 is to develop one accounting model based on the framework established in SFAS No. 121 for long lived assets to be disposed of by sale, and to address significant implementation issues. The provisions of this statement are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001, and interim periods within those fiscal years, with early application encouraged. We are evaluating the impact of SFAS No. 144 on our financial position and results of operations. In November 2001, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) issued EITF Issue No. 01 09 (EITF 01 09), Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer/Reseller, which addresses the accounting for consideration given by a vendor to a customer including both a reseller of the vendors products and an entity that purchases the vendors products from a reseller. EITF 01 09 also codifies and reconciles related guidance issued by the EITF including EITF No. 00 25 Vendor Income Statement Characterization of Consideration Paid to a Reseller of the Vendors Products (EITF 00 25). EITF 01 09 outlines the presumption that consideration given by a vendor to a customer, a reseller or a customer of a reseller is to be treated as a deduction from revenue. Treatment of such payments as an expense would only be appropriate if two conditions are met: a) the vendor receives an identifiable benefit in return for the consideration paid that is sufficiently separable from the sale such that the vendor could have entered into an exchange transaction with a party other than the purchaser or its products in order to receive that benefit; and b) the vendor can reasonably estimate the fair value of that benefit. We will adopt EITF 01 09 effective January 1, 2002. The adoption of EITF 01 09 is not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position in 2002. Factors That May Affect Future Results Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which may adversely affect our operating results and our stock price. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future. This fluctuation is a result of a variety of factors, including the following: unpredictable or declining demand for our products; decline in the average selling prices of our products due to competitive pricing pressures; Seasonality in sales of our products; natural disasters affecting the countries in which we conduct our business, particularly Japan, where our sole source of NAND flash memory wafer capacity is located and, to a lesser extent, Taiwan, China and the United States; excess capacity of flash memory from our competitors and our own flash wafer capacity, which may continue the acceleration in the decline in our average selling prices; 35 Table of Contents difficulty of forecasting and management of inventory levels, particularly, building a large inventory of unsold product due to non cancelable contractual obligations to purchase materials such as flash wafers, controllers, printed circuit boards and discrete components; expenses related to obsolescence or devaluation of unsold inventory; adverse changes in product and customer mix; slower than anticipated market acceptance of new or enhanced versions of our products; competing flash memory card standards, which displace the standards used in our products; changes in our distribution channels; fluctuations in our license and royalty revenue; fluctuations in product costs, particularly due to fluctuations in manufacturing yields and utilization; Availability of sufficient silicon wafer foundry capacity to meet customer demand; shortages of components such as capacitors and printed circuit boards required for the manufacturing of our products; significant yield losses, which could affect our ability to fulfill customer orders and could increase our costs; manufacturing flaws affecting the reliability, functionality or performance of our products, which could increase our product costs, reduce demand for our products or require product recalls; increased research and development expenses; exchange rate fluctuations, particularly the U.S. Dollar to Japanese Yen exchange rate; changes in general economic conditions, particularly in Japan and the European Union; and reduced sales to our retail customers if consumer confidence declines or economic conditions worsen. Difficulty of estimating future silicon wafer needs may cause us to overestimate our needs and build excess inventories, or underestimate our needs and have a shortage of silicon wafers, either of which will harm our financial results. When we order silicon wafers from our foundries, we have to estimate the number of silicon wafers needed to fill product orders several months into the future. If we overestimate this number, we will build excess inventories, which could harm our gross margins and operating results. On the other hand, if we underestimate the number of silicon wafers needed to fill product orders, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of wafers, which could harm our product revenues. Because the majority of our CompactFlash, SmartMedia card, MultiMediaCard and Secure Digital card are sold into emerging consumer markets, it has been difficult to accurately forecast future sales. In addition, bookings visibility remains low due to the current economic uncertainty in our markets. A substantial majority of our quarterly sales are currently, and have historically been, from orders received and fulfilled in the same quarter, which makes accurate forecasting very difficult. Our product order backlog may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter. We depend on third party foundries for silicon wafers and any shortage or disruption in our supply from these sources will reduce our revenues, earnings and gross margins. All of our flash memory card products require silicon wafers, the majority of which are currently supplied by Toshibas wafer facility at Yokkaichi, Japan, as well as UMC in Taiwan. After the restructuring of our FlashVision business, all of our NAND flash memory wafers are now supplied by Toshibas Yokkaichi wafer facilities. If Toshiba, FlashVision and UMC are uncompetitive or are 36 Table of Contents unable to satisfy these requirements, our business, financial condition and operating results may suffer. Any disruption in supply from these sources due to natural disaster, power failure, labor unrest or other causes could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the terms of our wafer supply agreements with Toshiba, FlashVision and UMC, we are obligated to provide a rolling forecast of anticipated purchase orders for the next six calendar months. Generally, the estimates for the first three months of each forecast are binding commitments. The estimates for the remaining months may only be changed by a certain percentage from the previous months forecast. This limits our ability to react to fluctuations in demand for our products. For example, if customer demand falls below our forecast and we are unable to reschedule or cancel our wafer orders, we may end up with excess wafer inventories, which could result in higher operating expenses and reduced gross margins. Conversely, if customer demand exceeds our forecasts, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of wafers to fill customer orders, which could result in dissatisfied customers, lost sales and lower revenues. If we are unable to obtain scheduled quantities of wafers with acceptable price and yields from any foundry, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. At the beginning of the second quarter of 2002, the demand for foundry wafers began to grow and the leading foundries started to allocate their capacity as well as extend delivery lead times and raise prices. If this trend continues, we may encounter shortages in our supply of wafers and we may also incur higher manufacturing cost for some of our products, which would make us unable to meet our customer demand and adversely impact our product gross margins. Variability of expense levels and significant fixed costs will harm our business if our revenues do not exceed our operating expenses. Despite the significant actions we took in 2001 to align expense levels with decreased revenues, we may need to hire additional personnel in certain business areas or otherwise increase our operating expenses in the future to support our sales and marketing efforts and research and development activities. We have significant fixed costs and we cannot readily reduce these expenses over the short term. If our revenues do not increase proportionately to our operating expenses, or if revenues decrease or do not meet expectations for a particular period, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. Variability of average selling prices and gross margins resulting from changes in our product mix and price reductions for certain of our products may cause our gross margins and net profitability to suffer. Our product mix varies quarterly, which affects our overall average selling prices and gross margins. Our CompactFlash, SmartMedia card, MultiMediaCard and Secure Digital card products, which currently represent the majority of our product revenues, have lower average selling prices and gross margins than our higher capacity FlashDisk and FlashDrive products. We believe that sales of CompactFlash, SmartMedia card, MultiMediaCard and Secure Digital card products will continue to represent a significant percentage of our product revenues as consumer applications, such as digital cameras and digital music players, become more popular. Flash data storage markets are intensely competitive, and price reductions for our products are necessary to meet consumer price points. Due to continued oversupply in flash memory foundry capacity throughout 2001 and the economic slow down in 2001, the decline in our average selling price per megabyte of 50% was much more severe than the 22% decrease we experienced in 2000 and price declines for our products could continue to be significant in the next several quarters. If we cannot reduce our product manufacturing costs in future periods to offset further price reductions, our gross margins and net profitability will suffer. In the fourth quarter of 2001, we commenced retail sales of Memory Stick cards supplied to us under an OEM supply and purchase agreement with Sony. We cannot assure you that the gross margins on the sale of Memory Stick products will be comparable to the gross margins from the sale of our other products. License fees and royalties from our patent cross license agreements are variable and fluctuate from period to period making it difficult to predict our royalty revenues. Our intellectual property strategy consists of cross licensing our patents to other manufacturers of flash products. Under these arrangements, we earn license fees and royalties on individually negotiated terms. The timing of revenue recognition from these payments is dependent on the terms of each contract and on the timing of product shipments by the third parties. Our income from patent licenses and royalties can fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. A substantial portion of this income comes from royalties based on the actual sales by our licensees. Given the current market outlook for the second quarter of 2002 and beyond, sales of licensed flash products by our licensees may be substantially lower than the corresponding sales in recent quarters, which may cause a substantial drop in our royalty revenues. Because these revenues have 37 Table of Contents higher gross margins than our product revenues, our overall gross margins and net income (loss) fluctuate significantly with changes in license and royalty revenues. We cannot assure you that our existing licensees will renew their licenses upon expiration, or that we will be successful in signing new licensees in the future. Our selling prices may decline due to excess capacity in the market for flash memory products and if we cannot reduce our manufacturing costs to offset these price declines, our gross margins and net profitability will be harmed. Throughout 2001, worldwide flash memory supply exceeded customer demand, causing excess supply in the markets for our products and significant declines in average selling prices. If this situation continues throughout 2002, price declines for our products could continue to be significant. If we cannot reduce our product manufacturing costs to offset these reduced prices, our gross margins and net profitability will be adversely impacted. Our business depends significantly upon sales of products in the highly competitive consumer market, a significant portion of which are made to retailers and through distributors, and if our distributors and retailers are not successful in this market, we could experience substantial product returns, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2001 and the first quarter of 2002, we continued to receive more product revenue and ship more units of products for consumer electronics applications, including digital cameras and PDAs, compared to other applications. The consumer market is intensely competitive and is more price sensitive than our other target markets. In addition, we must spend more on marketing and promotion in consumer markets to establish brand name recognition and drive demand. A significant portion of our sales to the consumer electronics market are made to retailers and through distributors. Sales through these channels typically include rights to return unsold inventory. As a result, we do not recognize revenue until after the product has been sold through to the end user. If our distributors and retailers are not successful in this market, there could be substantial product returns, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. There is seasonality in our business which may impact our product sales, particularly in the fourth and first quarters of the fiscal year. Sales of our products in the consumer electronics market may be subject to seasonality. As a result, product sales may be impacted by seasonal purchasing patterns with higher sales generally occurring in the fourth quarter of each year followed by declines in the first quarter of the following year. In addition, in the past we have experienced a decrease in orders in the first quarter from our Japanese OEM customers primarily because most customers in Japan operate on a fiscal year ending in March and prefer to delay purchases until the beginning of their next fiscal year. In transitioning to new processes and products, we face production and market acceptance risks which have caused, and may in the future cause, significant product delays that could harm our business. General. Successive generations of our products have incorporated semiconductor devices with greater memory capacity per chip. Two important factors have enabled us to decrease the cost per megabyte of our flash data storage products: the development of higher capacity semiconductor devices and the implementation of smaller geometry manufacturing processes. A number of challenges exist in achieving a lower cost per megabyte, including: lower yields often experienced in the early production of new semiconductor devices; manufacturing flaws with new processes including manufacturing processes at our subcontractors which may be extremely complex; problems with design and manufacturing of products that will incorporate these devices, which may result in delays or product recalls; and production delays. 38 Table of Contents Because our products are complex, we periodically experience significant delays in the development and volume production ramp up of our products. Similar delays could occur in the future and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. New products based on NAND MLC flash technology may encounter production delays and problems impacting production reliability and yields, which may cause our revenues and gross margins to decline. We have developed new products based on NAND MLC (Multi Level Cell) flash technology, a flash architecture designed to store two bits in each flash memory cell. High density flash memory, such as NAND MLC flash, is a complex technology that requires strict manufacturing controls and effective test screens. Problems encountered in the shift to volume production for new flash products could impact both reliability and yields, and result in increased manufacturing costs and reduced product availability. NAND MLC technology is highly complex and has not previously been successfully commercialized. We may not be able to manufacture future generations of NAND MLC products with yields sufficient to result in lower costs per megabyte. If we are unable to bring future generations of high density flash memory into full production as quickly as planned or if we experience unplanned yield or reliability problems, our revenues and gross margins will decline. The Secure Digital card standard has been slow to develop as a major new standard and may not be widely adopted by consumers. We, along with Matsushita and Toshiba, jointly developed and jointly promote the Secure Digital card. The Secure Digital card incorporates advanced security and copyright protection features required by the emerging markets for the electronic distribution of music, video and other copyrighted works. Although the Secure Digital card is designed specifically to address the copy protection rights of the content providers, there can be no assurance that these content providers will find these measures sufficient or will agree to support them. Furthermore, despite numerous design wins, the Secure Digital card standard has been slow to develop as a major new standard and we cannot assure you that consumers will widely adopt the Secure Digital card. Conversely, broad acceptance of our Secure Digital card by consumers will likely reduce demand for our MultiMediaCard and CompactFlash card products. During 2001, we experienced a substantial decline in sales of MultiMediaCards which was not matched by a corresponding increase in sales of Secure Digital cards. See The success of our business depends on emerging markets and new products. Memory Stick products sold by us may not generate substantial revenues for us or contribute to our gross margins. In September 2001, we signed an agreement with Sony involving their Memory Stick card format. Under the agreement, Sony will supply us a portion of their Memory Stick output for us to resell under our brand name. Sony has also agreed to purchase a portion of their NAND memory chip requirements from us provided that we meet market competitive pricing for these components. In addition, we and Sony agreed to co develop and co own the specifications for the next generation Memory Stick. Each of us will have all rights to manufacture and sell this new generation Memory Stick. We cannot assure you that this new business will generate substantial revenues or gross margin contributions for us. Consumers may prefer to purchase the Sony brand Memory Stick over our SanDisk brand Memory Stick. Furthermore, the second generation Memory Stick is still in the early stages of development and is not expected to generate significant sales before 2003. We cannot assure you that the second generation Memory Stick will achieve commercial success in the marketplace when it is introduced. We are transitioning our technology to NAND based products which requires us to significantly increase our inventory of NAND flash chips and if these products do not achieve customer acceptance, may result in inventory write offs that adversely affect our business. The transition to NAND based products is very complex, and requires good execution from our manufacturing, technology, quality, marketing, and sales and customer support staffs. If the current soft market conditions continue throughout 2002 and beyond, or if we are unable for any reason to achieve customer acceptance of our card products built with these NAND flash chips, we will experience a significant increase in our inventory, as we are contractually obligated, and will continue to be obligated after the restructuring of our FlashVision business, to purchase half of FlashVisions NAND wafer production output. This may result in inventory write offs and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See Our investment in new flash memory wafer production may result in increased expenses and fluctuations in operating results. In the third quarter of 2001, we began to purchase controller wafers from UMC and are continuing development of advanced flash memory technology utilizing the 0.15 micron technology design rules at UMC. 39 Table of Contents Our FlashVision joint venture with Toshiba makes us vulnerable to certain risks, including potential inventory write offs, disruptions or shortages of supply, limited ability to react to fluctuations in product demand, direct competition with Toshiba, and guarantee obligations, any of which could substantially harm our business and financial condition. On June 30, 2000, we closed a transaction with Toshiba providing for the joint development and manufacture of 512 megabit and 1 gigabit flash memory chips and Secure Digital card controllers. As a part of this transaction, we and Toshiba formed and contributed initial funding to FlashVision, a joint venture to equip and operate a silicon wafer manufacturing line at Dominion Semiconductor in Virginia. We and Toshiba will each separately market and sell any 512 megabit and 1 gigabit flash memory chips developed and manufactured by our joint venture. Accordingly, we will compete directly with Toshiba for sales of these advanced chips. We and Toshiba have restructured our FlashVision business and transferred certain assets to Toshibas Yokkaichi fabrication facility in Japan, which may cause production delays and reduce NAND wafer supply available to us, which could adversely impact our operating results. In April 2002, we and Toshiba finalized certain of the agreements related to the restructuring of our FlashVision business and the transfer of its operations to Toshibas Yokkaichi fabrication facility in Japan. Under the terms of the agreements, Toshiba will transfer the FlashVision owned and leased NAND production tool set from Dominion to Yokkaichi and has agreed to bear substantially all of the costs associated with the equipment transfers, which are expected to be completed in 2002. The transfer and qualification of the advanced fabrication equipment from Dominion, Virginia to Yokkaichi, Japan is a highly complex operation. It is quite possible that we may encounter difficulties and delays. Although the additional costs associated with potential delays will be borne substantially by Toshiba, our results of operations may suffer if this equipment transfer is not completed on time and production does not commence at Yokkaichi as planned, thereby reducing the total NAND production capacity available to us. In addition, we incurred substantial start up expenses related to the hiring and training of manufacturing personnel, facilitizing the clean room and installing equipment at the Dominion fabrication facility. Although as a part of our agreement with Toshiba to restructure our FlashVision business we will recapture substantially all of the Dominion start up expenses incurred by us, we will incur similar start up expenses in connection with the new Yokkaichi fabrication facility. In addition, we may not achieve the expected cost benefits of this transition until the second half of 2002, if at all. We will incur start up costs and pay our share of ongoing operating activities even if we do not utilize our full share of the new Yokkaichi output. We face challenges and possible delays relating to the expected shift in a portion of our production at Yokkaichi to 0.13 micron NAND, which could adversely affect our operating results. We were using the new production capacity at Dominion to manufacture NAND flash memory wafers with minimum lithographic feature size of 0.16 micron. Late in 2002, we expect to start shifting a portion of our production output at Yokkaichi to 0.13 micron NAND. Such minimum feature sizes are considered today to be among the most advanced for mass production of silicon wafers. Therefore, it is difficult to predict how long it will take to achieve adequate yields, reliable operation, and economically attractive product costs based on our new designs. Introduction of new feature sizes and technologies are subject to the same risks and uncertainties after the restructuring of our FlashVision business. We currently rely and will continue to rely on Toshiba to address these challenges. With our investments in the Dominion facility and in Toshibas Yokkaichi facility after the restructuring of our FlashVision business, we are now and will continue to be exposed to the adverse financial impact of any delays or manufacturing problems associated with wafer production lines. Any problems or delays in volume production at the Yokkaichi fabrication facility could adversely impact our operating results in 2002 and beyond. All of our NAND flash memory wafers are supplied by Toshibas Yokkaichi facilities and any disruption in this supply will reduce our revenues, earnings and gross margins. Until the transition of the Dominion tool set is completed, we will rely solely on Toshibas current Yokkaichi fabrication facility to supply all of our NAND wafers. If we experience increased demand during the transition period, we may not be able to procure a sufficient number of wafers from Toshibas current Yokkaichi fabrication facility to meet this demand, which would harm our business and operating results. Even if FlashVision establishes the new Yokkaichi fabrication facility, the Yokkaichi fabrication facilities may not produce satisfactory quantities of wafers with acceptable prices, reliability and yields. Any failure in this regard would be particularly harmful to our business, financial condition and results of operations, 40 Table of Contents as we will not have an alternate source of supply. In addition, any disruption in supply from the Yokkaichi fabrication facility due to natural disaster, power failure, labor unrest or other causes could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we have no experience in operating a wafer manufacturing line and we intend to rely on the existing manufacturing organizations at the Yokkaichi fabrication facilities. The new Yokkaichi fabrication facility will be tasked to copy exactly the same manufacturing flow employed by Toshiba in its existing Yokkaichi fabrication facility, but they may not be successful in manufacturing these advanced NAND flash products on a cost effective basis or at all. If Toshiba and FlashVision are uncompetitive, are unable to satisfy our wafer supply requirements, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. Our obligations under our wafer supply agreements with Toshiba and FlashVision, or failure to obtain customer acceptance, may result in excess inventories and lead to inventory write offs, and any technical difficulties or manufacturing problems may result in shortages in supply, either of which would adversely affect our business. Under the terms of our wafer supply agreements with Toshiba, we are obligated to purchase half of FlashVisions NAND wafer production output and we will also purchase NAND wafers from Toshibas current Yokkaichi fabrication facility on a foundry relationship basis. If the current soft market conditions continue throughout 2002 and beyond, or if we are unable for any reason to achieve customer acceptance of our card products built with these NAND flash chips, we will experience a significant increase in our inventory, which may result in inventory write offs and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Apart from our commitment to purchase FlashVision wafer output from Yokkaichi after the restructuring, under our foundry relationship with Toshiba, we order NAND wafers under purchase orders at market prices that cannot be cancelled. If we place purchase orders with Toshiba and our business condition deteriorates, we may end up with excess inventories of NAND wafers, which could harm our business and financial condition. Should customer demand for NAND flash products be less than our available supply, we may suffer from reduced revenues and increased expenses, and increased inventory of unsold NAND flash wafers, which could adversely affect our operating results. On the other hand, under the terms of our foundry relationship with Toshiba and wafer supply agreements with FlashVision, we are obligated to provide a rolling forecast of anticipated purchase orders for the next six calendar months, which are difficult to estimate. Generally, the estimates for the first three months of each forecast are binding commitments. The estimates for the remaining months may only be changed by a certain percentage from the previous months forecast. This limits our ability to react to fluctuations in demand for our products. At the beginning of the second quarter of 2002, the demand for foundry wafers began to grow and the leading foundries started to allocate their capacity as well as extend delivery lead times and raise prices. If this trend continues, we may encounter shortages in our supply of wafers and we may also incur higher manufacturing cost for some of our products, which would make us unable to meet our customer demand and adversely impact our product gross margins. In addition, in order for us to sell NAND based CompactFlash, MultiMediaCards and Secure Digital cards, we have been developing new controllers, printed circuit boards and test algorithms because the architecture of NAND flash is significantly different from our prior NOR flash designs. Any technical difficulties or delays in the development of these elements could prevent us from taking advantage of the available NAND output and could adversely affect our results of operations. See Our investment in new flash memory wafer production may result in increased expenses and fluctuations in operating results. We may have guarantee or indemnification obligations on FlashVIsion lease amounts under a permanent replacement facility. Under June 2000 our joint venture agreement with Toshiba, we agreed to guarantee one half of all FlashVision lease amounts up to a maximum guarantee of $175.0 million. As of March 31, 2002, we had guarantee obligations in the amount of $148.8 million in favor of ABN AMRO Bank N.V., or ABN AMRO, as agent for a syndicate of financial institutions, on the equipment lease lines to equip FlashVision. This guarantee constituted senior indebtedness under the Notes. In March 2002, FlashVision exercised its right of early termination under the lease facility and repaid all amounts outstanding thereunder in April 2002. FlashVision completed interim financing in the form of a bridge loan from Toshiba in April 2002 and we currently anticipate that FlashVision will finalize a new equipment lease arrangement by the end of the second quarter of 2002. We may be required to guarantee or indemnify Toshiba against our portion of any obligations incurred by FlashVision under any new equipment lease arrangement. 41 Table of Contents Our $75.0 million investment in Tower Semiconductor is subject to certain inherent risks, including those associated with certain Israeli regulatory requirements, political unrest and financing difficulties, which could harm our business and financial condition. On July 4, 2000, we entered into a share purchase agreement to make a $75.0 million investment in Tower Semiconductor, or Tower, in Israel, representing approximately 10% ownership of Tower. The investment is subject to the completion of certain milestones relative to the construction of a new wafer fabrication facility by Tower. During 2001, Tower satisfied the closing conditions of the share purchase agreement and completed the first two milestones. Under the terms of the agreement, we invested $42.5 million to purchase 1,599,931 ordinary shares and obtain wafer credits of $21.4 million. In September 2001, we agreed to convert 75% of our wafer credits to equity at a price of $12.75 per share and received an additional 1,284,007 ordinary shares. Due to the continued weakness in the semiconductor industry, the value of our Tower investment and remaining wafer credits had declined to $16.6 million on December 31, 2001. It was determined that this decline was other than temporary, as defined by generally accepted accounting principles and a loss of $20.6 million was recorded in the second half of 2001. In addition, we recognized a loss of $5.5 million on our exchange of 75% of our Tower wafer credits for ordinary shares. These losses totaling $26.1 million, or $15.8 million net of tax benefit, were recorded in loss on investment in foundry in 2001. In March 2002, we modified our share purchase agreement with Tower by agreeing to advance the payments for the third and fourth milestones. The payment for the third milestone of $11.0 million was paid on April 5, 2002 and the payment for the fourth milestone of $11.0 million will be paid on October 1, 2002. We will make this payment whether or not Tower actually achieves its previously agreed upon milestone obligations. In exchange for this, and as part of the modification to the share purchase agreement, Tower has agreed that of the aggregate payment of $22.0 million represented by the third and fourth milestone payments, (i) 60% of this amount, or $13.2 million, will be applied to the issuance of additional ordinary Tower shares based on the average closing price of Tower shares on the NASDAQ in the thirty consecutive trading days preceding each payment date, referred to as the ATP, (provided, however, that pursuant to the purchase agreement as modified, the ATP shall not exceed $12.50 per share) and (ii) 40% of this amount, or $8.8 million, will be credited to our pre paid wafer account, to be applied against orders placed with Towers new fabrication facility, when completed; provided, however, that until July 1, 2005, these amounts added to the pre paid wafer account may only be applied towards a maximum of 7.5% of wafer purchases. As a result of our investment of $11.0 million for the third milestone, we received 1,071,497 additional Tower ordinary shares and $4.4 million in prepaid wafer credits. On a quarterly basis, we will assess the value of the prepaid wafer credits considering the timing and quantity of our planned wafer purchases from Tower, the contractual limitations on the amount of wafer credits that can be applied to purchases on an annual basis, the status of foundry construction and general economic conditions. If we determine that the value of these wafer credits is not recoverable, we will record a write down. The final contribution by us, if any, will take the form of a mandatory warrant exercise for 366,690 ordinary shares at an exercise price of $30.00 per share if the final milestone is met by Tower. The final milestone warrant will expire in July 2005, and in the event the milestone is not achieved, the exercise of the warrant will not be mandatory. If Towers stock price is trading below $30.00 per share on the day, if ever, that the final contribution is made, we will receive wafer credits in an amount equal to the number of shares purchased on the final contribution date multiplied by the difference between $30.00 and the ATP (provided, however, that the ATP shall not be less than $12.50). If we make timely milestone payments, Tower is contractually obligated to fill our wafer orders with up to 15% of available wafers from the new fabrication facility. We currently expect Tower to supply us a portion of the ASIC controller chips used in our flash cards. Towers new foundry facility is currently on schedule to begin production in the first half of 2003. Completion of Towers wafer foundry facility is dependent on several factors and may never occur, which may harm our business and results of operations. Towers completion of the wafer foundry facility is dependent on its ability to obtain additional financing for the foundry construction from equity and other sources and the release of grants and approvals for changes in grant programs from the Israel governments Investment Center. If Tower is unable to obtain additional financing, complete foundry construction in a timely manner or is unable to successfully complete the development and transfer of advanced CMOS process technologies and ramp up of production, the 42 Table of Contents value of our investment in Tower will decline significantly or possibly become worthless and we may be unable to obtain the wafers needed to manufacture our products, which would harm our results of operations. In addition, the value of our investment in Tower may be adversely affected by a further deterioration of conditions in the market for foundry manufacturing services and the market for semiconductor products generally. If the fair value of the Tower investment declines further, we may record additional losses. We cannot assure you that the Tower facility will be completed or will begin production as scheduled, or that the processes needed to fabricate our wafers will be qualified at the new facility. Moreover, we cannot assure you that this new facility will be able to achieve acceptable yields or deliver sufficient quantities of wafers on a timely basis at a competitive price. Furthermore, if the depressed business conditions for semiconductor wafers persists throughout 2002 and beyond, Tower may be unable to operate their new fabrication facility at an optimum capacity utilization, which would cause them to operate at a loss. The current political unrest and violence in Israel may hinder the completion of and delay competitive production from Towers fabrication facility, which would harm our business. Although we do not believe the current political unrest and escalation of violence in Israel represent a major security problem for Tower since Migdal Haemek, Israel is in a relatively secure geographic location, the unrest may expand and even if it remains at current levels, could cause scheduling delays, as well as economic uncertainty, which could cause potential foundry customers to go elsewhere for their foundry business. Moreover, if U.S. military actions in Afghanistan, or elsewhere, result in retaliation against Israel, Towers fabrication facility may be adversely impacted. Fluctuations in the market value of our UMC foundry investment affect our financial results. In 1997, we invested $51.2 million in United Silicon, Inc., or USIC, a semiconductor manufacturing subsidiary of United Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC, which was merged into the UMC parent company on January 3, 2000. In exchange for our USIC shares, we received 111 million UMC shares. Our equity investment in UMC was valued at $214.2 million at March 31, 2002 and included an unrealized gain of $19.3 million, or $8.3 million net of taxes, in the first quarter of 2002, which was included in other comprehensive income. In fiscal year 2001, we recorded a loss on investment in foundry of $275.8 million, or $166.9 million net of taxes, on our UMC investment. If the fair value of our UMC investment declines in future periods, we may record additional losses for those periods. In addition, in future periods, we may recognize a gain or loss upon the sale of our UMC shares, which will impact our financial results. The success of our business depends on emerging markets and new products. In order for demand for our products to grow, the markets for new products that use CompactFlash, the MultiMediaCard, and Secure Digital card such as digital cameras, portable digital music players and cellular phones must develop and grow. If sales of these products do not grow, our revenues and profit margins could be adversely impacted. In 2001, we experienced a substantial drop in demand from our MultiMediaCard customers, which we believe is attributable to the switch by these customers to the Secure Digital card, as well as the generally soft market conditions. The success of our new product strategy will depend upon, among other things, the following: our ability to successfully develop new products with higher memory capacities and enhanced features at a lower cost per megabyte; the development of new applications or markets for our flash data storage products; the adoption by the major content providers of the copy protection features offered by our Secure Digital card products; 43 Table of Contents the extent to which prospective customers design our products into their products and successfully introduce their products; and the extent to which our products or technologies become obsolete or noncompetitive due to products or technologies developed by others. 512 megabit and 1 gigabit flash memory card products. On June 30, 2000, we closed a transaction with Toshiba providing for the joint development of 512 megabit and 1 gigabit flash memory chips and the manufacture of Secure Digital card controllers. As part of this venture, we and Toshiba plan to employ Toshibas 0.16 micron and future 0.13 micron NAND flash integrated circuit manufacturing technology and SanDisks multilevel cell flash and controller system technology. During the third quarter of 2000, we announced with Toshiba the completion of the joint development of the 512 megabit NAND flash chip employing Toshibas 0.16 micron manufacturing process technology. We began employing the 512 megabit technology in the second half of 2001, and expect to commence shipments of cards employing the 1 gigabit technology in the first half of 2002. The development of the next generation .13 micron, 1 gigabit and 2 gigabit NAND flash memory chips is highly complex. We cannot assure you that we and Toshiba will successfully develop and bring into full production with acceptable yields and reliability these new products or the underlying technology, or that any development or production ramp will be completed in a timely or cost effective manner. If we are not successful in any of the above, or if our cost structure is not competitive, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We may be unable to maintain market share which would reduce our potential revenues and benefit our competitors. During periods of excess supply in the market for our flash memory products, such as we experienced in 2001 and continue to experience in 2002, we may lose market share to competitors who aggressively lower their prices. Conversely, under conditions of tight flash memory supply, we may be unable to increase our production volumes at a sufficiently rapid rate so as to maintain our market share. Ultimately, our growth rate depends on our ability to obtain sufficient flash memory wafers and other components to meet demand. If we are unable to do so in a timely manner, we may lose market share to our competitors. Currently, we are experiencing severe price competition for our products which is adversely impacting our product gross margins and overall profitability. Because of our international operations, we must comply with numerous international laws and regulations and we are vulnerable to political instability and currency fluctuations. Political risks. Currently, the majority of our flash memory and controller wafers are produced by Toshiba in Japan and UMC in Taiwan. After the restructuring of our FlashVision business, all of our flash memory and controller wafers are now produced overseas by Toshiba and UMC. We also use third party subcontractors in Taiwan and China for the assembly and testing of some of our card and component products. We may therefore be affected by the political, economic and military conditions in Taiwan. Taiwan is currently engaged in various political disputes with China and in the past both countries have conducted military exercises in or near the others territorial waters and airspace. The Taiwanese and Chinese governments may escalate these disputes, resulting in an economic embargo, a disruption in shipping routes or even military hostilities. This could harm our business by interrupting or delaying the production or shipment of flash memory wafers or card products by our Taiwanese foundry and subcontractors. See We depend on our suppliers and third party subcontractors. We use a third party subcontractor in China for the assembly and testing of our CompactFlash products. As a result, our business could be harmed by the effect of political, economic, legal and other uncertainties in China. Under its current leadership, the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies, including the encouragement of foreign trade and investment and greater economic decentralization. The Chinese government may not continue to pursue these policies and, even if it does continue, these policies may not be successful. The Chinese government may also significantly alter these policies from time to time. In addition, China does not currently have a comprehensive and highly developed legal system, particularly with respect to the protection of intellectual property rights. As a result, enforcement of existing and future laws and contracts is uncertain, and the implementation and interpretation of such laws may be inconsistent. Such inconsistency could lead to piracy and degradation of our intellectual property protection. 44 Table of Contents Although we do not believe the current political unrest and escalation of violence in Israel represent a major security problem for Tower since Migdal Haemek, Israel is in a relatively secure geographic location, the unrest may expand and even if it remains at current levels, could cause scheduling delays, as well as economic uncertainty, which could cause potential foundry customers to go elsewhere for their foundry business. Moreover, if U.S. military actions in Afghanistan, or elsewhere, result in retaliation against Israel, Towers fabrication facility and our engineering design center in Israel may be adversely impacted. We cannot assure you that the Tower facility will be completed or will begin production as scheduled, or that the processes needed to fabricate our wafers will be qualified at the new facility. Moreover, we cannot assure you that this new facility will be able to achieve acceptable yields or deliver sufficient quantities of wafers on a timely basis at a competitive price. Furthermore, if the depressed business conditions for semiconductor wafers persists throughout 2002 and beyond, Tower may be unable to operate their new fabrication facility at an optimum capacity utilization, which would cause them to operate at a loss. In addition, while the political unrest has not yet posed a direct security risk to our engineering design center in Israel, it may cause unforeseen delays in the development of our products and may in the future pose such a direct security risk. Economic risks. We price our products primarily in U.S. Dollars. Given the recent economic conditions in Asia and the European Union and the weakness of the Euro, Yen and other currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar, our products may be relatively more expensive in these regions, which could result in a decrease in our sales. While most of our sales are denominated in U.S. Dollars, we invoice certain Japanese customers in Japanese Yen and are subject to exchange rate fluctuations on these transactions, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. General risks. Our international business activities could also be limited or disrupted by any of the following factors: the need to comply with foreign government regulation; general geopolitical risks such as political and economic instability, potential hostilities and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; natural disasters affecting the countries in which we conduct our business, particularly Japan, such as the earthquakes experienced in Taiwan in 1999 and in Japan and China in previous years; imposition of regulatory requirements, tariffs, import and export restrictions and other barriers and restrictions; longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection, particularly as we increase our sales through the retail distribution channel, and general business conditions deteriorate; adverse tax rules and regulations; weak protection of our intellectual property rights; and delays in product shipments due to local customs restrictions. We depend on our suppliers and third party subcontractors for several of our critical components and our business could be harmed if we are unable to obtain a sufficient supply of these components on a timely basis. We rely on our vendors, some of which are sole source suppliers, for several of our critical components. We do not have long term supply agreements with some of these vendors. Our business, financial condition and operating results could be significantly harmed by delays or reductions in shipments if we are unable to develop alternative sources or obtain sufficient quantities of these components. For example, after the restructuring of our FlashVision business, we now rely on Toshibas Yokkaichi fabrication facility for all of our flash memory wafers. Any disruption in the supply of wafers from the Yokkaichi fabrication facility would severely adversely impact our business. Until the transition of the Dominion tool set is completed, we will rely solely on the current Yokkaichi fabrication facility for our NAND wafers. If we experience increased demand during this transition period, we may not be able to 45 Table of Contents procure a sufficient number of wafers from Toshiba to meet this demand, which would harm our business and operating results. We also rely on third party subcontractors for a substantial portion of wafer testing, packaged memory final testing, card assembly and card testing, including Silicon Precision Industries Co., Ltd. in Taiwan and Celestica, Inc. in China. These subcontractors will also be assembling and testing a majority of our mature, high volume products. In the fourth quarter of 2001, we completed the transfer of all of our card assembly and test manufacturing operations from our Sunnyvale location to these offshore subcontractors. We have no long term contracts with these subcontractors and cannot directly control product delivery schedules. Any significant problems that occur at our subcontractors, or their failure to perform at the level we expect could lead to product shortages or quality assurance problems, which could increase the manufacturing costs of our products and have adverse effects on our operating results. Furthermore, we are moving to turnkey manufacturing with some of our subcontract suppliers, which may reduce our visibility and control of their inventories of purchased parts necessary to build our products. Our markets are highly competitive and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business will be harmed. Flash memory manufacturers and memory card assemblers. We compete in an industry characterized by intense competition, rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, declining average selling prices and rapid product obsolescence. Our competitors include many large domestic and international companies that have greater access to advanced wafer foundry capacity, substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, broader product lines and longer standing relationships with customers. Our primary competitors include companies that develop and manufacture storage flash chips, such as Hitachi, Samsung, Micron Technology and Toshiba. In addition, we compete with companies that manufacture other forms of flash memory and companies that purchase flash memory components and assemble memory cards. Companies that manufacture socket flash, linear flash and components include Advanced Micro Devices, Atmel, Fujitsu, Intel, Macronix, Mitsubishi, Sharp Electronics and ST Microelectronics. Companies that combine controllers and flash memory chips developed by others into flash storage cards include Dane Elec Manufacturing, Delkin Devices, Inc., Feiya Technology Corporation, Fuji, Hagiwara, I/O Data, Ingentix, Kingston Technology, Lexar Media, M Systems, Matsushita Battery, Matsushita Panasonic, Memorex, PNY, Pretec, Silicon Storage Technology, Silicon Tek, Simple Technology, Sony Corporation, TDK Corporation, Toshiba and Viking Components. In addition, many companies have been certified by the CompactFlash Association to manufacture and sell their own brand of CompactFlash. We believe additional manufacturers will enter the CompactFlash market in the future. We have entered into agreements with, and face direct competition from, Toshiba and other competitors. We have entered into an agreement with Matsushita and Toshiba, forming the Secure Digital Association, or SD Association, to jointly develop and promote a next generation flash memory card called the Secure Digital card. Under this agreement, royalty bearing Secure Digital card licenses will be available to other flash memory card manufacturers, which will increase the competition for our Secure Digital card and other products. In addition, Matsushita and Toshiba have commenced selling Secure Digital cards that will compete directly with our products. While other flash card manufacturers will be required to pay the SD Association license fees and royalties, which will be shared among Matsushita, Toshiba and us, there will be no royalties or license fees payable among the three companies for their respective sales of the Secure Digital card. Thus, we will forfeit potential royalty income from Secure Digital card sales by Matsushita and Toshiba. In addition, we and Toshiba will each separately market and sell any 512 megabit and 1 gigabit flash memory chips developed and manufactured by our joint venture, FlashVision. Accordingly, we will compete directly with Toshiba for sales of these advanced chips. Moreover, we rely solely on Toshiba for the supply of all of our NAND wafers. We have entered into patent cross license agreements with several of our leading competitors including Hitachi, Intel, Lexar, Matsushita, SST, Samsung, Sharp, Sony, Toshiba and TDK. Under these agreements, each party may manufacture and sell products that incorporate technology covered by the other partys patent or patents related to flash memory devices. As we continue to license our patents to certain of our competitors, competition will increase and may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currently, we are engaged in licensing 46 Table of Contents discussions with several of our competitors. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in concluding licensing agreements under terms which are favorable to us, or at all. Alternative storage media. Competing products have been introduced that promote industry standards that are different from our products including Sonys standard floppy disk used for digital storage in its Mavica digital cameras, Panasonics Mega Storage cards, Iomegas Clik drive, a miniaturized, mechanical, removable disk drive, M Systems DiskOnKey, a USB based memory device, and the Secure MultiMediaCard from Hitachi and Infineon. Each competing standard may not be mechanically and electronically compatible with our products. If a manufacturer of digital cameras or other consumer electronic devices designs in one of these alternative competing standards, our products will be eliminated from use in that product. In addition, other companies, such as Sanyo, DataPlay and Matrix Semiconductor have announced products or technologies that may potentially compete with our products. IBMs Microdrive, a rotating disk drive in a Type II CompactFlash format competes directly with our larger capacity memory cards. M Systems DiskOnChip 2000 Millennium product competes against our NAND Flash Components in embedded storage applications such as set top boxes and networking appliances. Sony has licensed its proprietary Memory Stick to us and other companies and Sony has agreed to supply us a portion of their Memory Stick output for resale under our brand name. If consumer electronics products using the Memory Stick achieve widespread use, sales of our MultiMediaCard, Secure Digital card, SmartMedia card and CompactFlash products may decline. Our MultiMediaCard products also have faced significant competition from Toshibas SmartMedia flash cards. Alternative flash technologies. We also face competition from products based on multilevel cell flash technology from Intel and Hitachi. These products currently compete with our NAND MLC products. Multilevel cell flash is a technological innovation that allows each flash memory cell to store two bits of information instead of the traditional single bit stored by conventional flash technology. Furthermore, we expect to face competition both from existing competitors and from other companies that may enter our existing or future markets that have similar or alternative data storage solutions, which may be less costly or provide additional features. For example, Infineon has formed a joint venture with Saifun, an Israeli startup company, to develop a proprietary flash memory technology which will be targeted at low cost data storage applications. Price is an important competitive factor in the market for consumer products. Increased price competition could lower gross margins if our average selling prices decrease faster than our costs and could also result in lost sales. Sales to a small number of customers represent a significant portion of our revenues. Approximately one half of our revenues come from a small number of customers. For example, sales to our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 49%, 48%, and 57%, respectively, of our product revenues for 2001, 2000, and 1999. In 2001 and 2000, no single customer accounted for greater than 10% of our total revenues. In 1999, revenues from one customer exceeded 10% of our total revenues. If we were to lose one of our major customers or experience any material reduction in orders from any of these customers, our revenues and operating results would suffer. Our sales are generally made by standard purchase orders rather than long term contracts. In addition, the composition of our major customer base changes from year to year as the market demand for our customers products changes. We may not be successful selling our products on the Internet and these sales may undercut our traditional sales channels. Web based sales of our products today represent a small but growing portion of our overall sales. Sales on the Internet tend to undercut traditional distribution channels and may dramatically change the way our consumer products are purchased in future years. We cannot assure you that we will successfully develop the Internet sales channel or successfully manage the inherent conflict between the Internet and our traditional sales channels. 47 Table of Contents We must achieve acceptable wafer manufacturing yields or our costs will increase and production will decrease, which could negatively impact our business. The fabrication of our products requires wafers to be produced in a highly controlled and ultra clean environment. Semiconductor companies that supply our wafers sometimes have experienced problems achieving acceptable wafer manufacturing yields. Semiconductor manufacturing yields are a function of both our design technology and the foundrys manufacturing process technology. Low yields may result from design errors or manufacturing failures. Yield problems may not be determined or improved until an actual product is made and can be tested. As a result, yield problems may not be identified until the wafers are well into the production process. The risks associated with yields are even greater because we rely exclusively on independent offshore foundries for our wafers which increases the effort and time required to identify, communicate and resolve manufacturing yield problems. If the foundries cannot achieve planned yields, we will experience higher costs and reduced product availability, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that the Yokkaichi fabrication facilities will produce satisfactory quantities of wafers with acceptable prices, reliability and yields. Any failure in this regard could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. During the transition from the Dominion fabrication facility to the new Yokkaichi fabrication facility, when we will be solely reliant on the current Yokkaichi fabrication facility for our NAND wafers, any such failure will be particularly harmful to us as we will not have an alternate source of supply. In addition, we have no experience in operating a wafer manufacturing line and we intend to rely on the existing manufacturing organizations at the Yokkaichi fabrication facilities. The new Yokkaichi fabrication facility will be tasked to copy exactly the same manufacturing flow employed by Toshiba in its existing Yokkaichi fabrication facility but we cannot assure you that they will be successful in manufacturing these advanced NAND flash products on a cost effective basis or at all. There are risks associated with patents, proprietary rights and related litigation and if we cannot manage these risks effectively, our business may be harmed. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. In the past, we have been involved in significant disputes regarding our intellectual property rights and claims that we may be infringing third parties intellectual property rights. We expect that we may be involved in similar disputes in the future. We cannot assure you that: any of our existing patents will not be invalidated; patents will be issued for any of our pending applications; any claims allowed from existing or pending patents will have sufficient scope or strength; our patents will be issued in the primary countries where our products are sold in order to protect our rights and potential commercial advantage; or any of our products do not infringe on the patents of other companies. In addition, our competitors may be able to design their products around our patents. We intend to vigorously enforce our patents but we cannot be sure that our efforts will be successful. If we were to have an adverse result in any litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non infringing technology, discontinue the use of certain processes or obtain licenses to the infringing technology. Any litigation is likely to result in significant expense to us, as well as divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. We may be unable to license intellectual property to or from third parties as needed, or renew existing licenses, and have agreed to indemnify various suppliers and customers for alleged patent infringement, which could expose us to liability for damages, increase our costs or limit or prohibit us from selling certain products. If we decide to incorporate third party technology into our products or if we are found to infringe on others intellectual property, we could be required to license intellectual property from a third party. We may also need to license some of our 48 Table of Contents intellectual property to others in order to enable us to obtain cross licenses to third party patents. Currently, we have patent cross license agreements with several companies, including Hitachi, Intel, Lexar, Matsushita, SST, Samsung, Sharp, Smartdisk, Sony, TDK and Toshiba and we are in discussions with other companies regarding potential cross license agreements. We cannot be certain that licenses will be offered when we need them, or that the terms offered will be acceptable. If we do obtain licenses from third parties, we may be required to pay license fees or royalty payments. In addition, if we are unable to obtain a license that is necessary to the manufacture of our products, we could be required to suspend the manufacture of products or stop our wafer suppliers from using processes that may infringe the rights of third parties. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in redesigning our products or that the necessary licenses will be available under reasonable terms, or that our existing licensees will renew their licenses upon expiration, or that we will be successful in signing new licensees in the future. We have historically agreed to indemnify various suppliers and customers for alleged patent infringement. The scope of such indemnity varies, but may, in some instances, include indemnification for damages and expenses, including attorneys fees. We may periodically engage in litigation as a result of these indemnification obligations. We are not currently engaged in any such indemnification proceedings. Our insurance policies exclude coverage for third party claims for patent infringement. Any future obligation to indemnify our customers or suppliers could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be involved in litigation regarding our intellectual property rights or those of third parties, which would be costly and would divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. Litigation is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. Factors that could cause litigation results to differ include, but are not limited to, the discovery of previously unknown facts, changes in the law or in the interpretation of laws, and uncertainties associated with the judicial decision making process. Furthermore, parties that we have sued and that we may sue for patent infringement may counter sue us for infringing their patents. On or about August 3, 2001, the Lemelson Medical, Education & Research Foundation, or Lemelson Foundation, filed a complaint for patent infringement against us and four other defendants. The suit, captioned Lemelson Medical, Education, & Research Foundation, Limited Partnership vs. Broadcom Corporation, et al., Civil Case No. CIV01 1440PHX HRH, was filed in the United States District Court, District of Arizona. On November 13, 2001, the Lemelson Foundation filed an Amended Complaint, which made the same substantive allegations against us but named more than twenty five additional defendants. The Amended Complaint alleges that we, and the other defendants, have infringed certain patents held by the Lemelson Foundation pertaining to bar code scanning technology. By its complaint, the Lemelson Foundation requests that we be enjoined from our allegedly infringing activities and seeks unspecified damages. On February 4, 2002, we filed an answer to the amended complaint, wherein we alleged that we do not infringe the asserted patents, and further contend that the patents are not valid or enforceable. On October 15, 2001, we filed a complaint for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against Micron Technology, Inc., or Micron. In the suit, captioned SanDisk Corp. v. Micron Technology, Inc., Civil No. CV 01 3855 CW, the complaint seeks damages and an injunction against Micron for making, selling, importing or using flash memory cards that infringe our U.S. Patent No. 6,149,316. On February 15, 2002, Micron answered the complaint, denied liability, and counterclaimed seeking a declaration that the patent in suit is not infringed, is invalid, and is unenforceable. On April 19, 2002, Micron filed a motion seeking to amend its counterclaim to assert allegations that we have infringed or are infringing five patents: U.S. Patent No. 4,468,308; U.S. Patent No. 5,286,344; U.S. Patent No. 5,320,981; U.S. Patent No. 6,015,760; and U.S. Patent No. 6,287,978 B1. We intend to oppose Microns motion. On October 31, 2001, we filed a complaint for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against Memorex Products, Inc., Pretec Electronics Corporation, Ritek Corporation and Power Quotient International Co., Ltd. In the suit, captioned SanDisk Corp. v. Memorex Products, Inc., et. al., Civil No. CV 01 4063 VRW, we seek damages and injunctions against these companies from making, selling, importing or using flash memory cards that infringe our U.S. patent No. 5,602,987 or the 987 Patent. Defendants Memorex, Pretec and Ritek have filed answers denying the allegations. We filed a motion for a preliminary 49 Table of Contents injunction in the suit to enjoin Memorex, Pretec and Ritek from making, selling, importing or using flash memory cards that infringe our 987 Patent prior to the trial on the merits. On May 17, 2002, the Court denied our motion. Discovery has commenced. The Court has set a trial date for the later half of 2003. On November 30, 2001, we filed a complaint for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against Power Quotient International USA Inc, or PQI USA. In the suit, captioned SanDisk Corp. v. Power Quotient International USA Inc., Civil No. C 01 21111, we seek damages and an injunction against PQI USA from making, selling, importing or using flash memory cards that infringe our U.S. patent No. 5,602,987. The PQI USA complaint and litigation are related to the October 31, 2001 litigation referred to above. The products at issue in the PQI USA case are identical to those charged with infringement in the October 31, 2001 litigation. On December 21, 2001, PQI USA filed an answer to the complaint denying the allegations, which included a counter claim for a declaratory judgment of non infringement and invalidity of our 987 Patent. We have motioned for a preliminary injunction in the suit to enjoin PQI USA from making, selling, importing or using flash memory cards that infringe our 987 Patent prior to the trial on the merits. On April 8, 2002, the Court heard argument on the preliminary injunction motion and a decision on the motion is pending. Discovery has commenced. The Court has set a trial date for the later half of 2003. On or about March 5, 2002, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., or Samsung, filed a patent infringement lawsuit against us in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The lawsuit alleges that we infringe four Samsung United States patents, Nos. 5,473,563; 5,514,889; 5,546,341 and 5,642,309, and seeks a preliminary and permanent injunction against unnamed products of ours, as well as damages, attorneys fees and cost of the lawsuit. On March 28, 2002, we filed an answer and counterclaims denying infringement and asserting the Samsung patents are invalid and or unenforceable. The counterclaims asserted that Samsung breached a 1997 agreement between SanDisk and Samsung. On April 3, 2002, Samsung filed its first amended complaint. The amended complaint restricted Samsungs original infringement allegations with respect to the four patents listed above to SanDisk products that include NAND flash memory. A substantial percentage of SanDisk products include NAND flash memory devices. On April 26, 2002, we filed an answer to Samsungs first amended complaint and amended counterclaims. This answer and amended counterclaims again denied infringement and asserted that the Samsung patents are invalid and or unenforceable. In SanDisks amended counterclaims, we seek relief for both breach of the 1997 agreement and a declaration of our rights under the 1997 agreement. A trial has been schedule for October 2002 on this matter. On April 26, 2002, we filed a complaint against Samsung in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, Civil No. C02 2069 MJJ, for declaratory judgment of non infringement, invalidity, a declaration of rights under the 1997 agreement with Samsung and breach of contract. Rapid growth may strain our operations. Despite actions we took in 2001 to align expense levels with decreased revenues, we must continue to hire, train, motivate and manage our employees to accommodate future growth. In the past, we have experienced difficulty hiring the necessary engineering, sales and marketing personnel to support our growth. In addition, we must make a significant investment in our existing internal information management systems to support increased manufacturing, as well as accounting and other management related functions. Our systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support rapid growth, which could in turn harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks and threats, and government responses thereto, may negatively impact all aspects of our operations, revenues, costs and stock price The recent terrorist attacks in the United States, the U.S. retaliation for these attacks and the related decline in consumer confidence and continued economic weakness have had a substantial adverse impact on our retail sales. If consumer confidence does not recover, our revenues and results of operations may be adversely impacted in the second quarter of 2002 and beyond. In addition, any similar future events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers and suppliers and may affect the availability of materials needed to manufacture our products or the means to transport those materials to manufacturing facilities and finished products to customers. In addition, these events have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the U.S. and world economy in general and consumer confidence and spending in 50 Table of Contents particular, which could harm our sales. Any of these events could increase volatility in the U.S. and world financial markets which could harm our stock price and may limit the capital resources available to us and our customers or suppliers. This could have a significant impact on our operating results, revenues and costs and may result in increased volatility in the market price of our common stock. Our success depends on key personnel, including our executive officers, the loss of whom could disrupt our business Our success greatly depends on the continued contributions of our senior management and other key research and development, sales, marketing and operations personnel, including Dr. Eli Harari, our founder, President and Chief Executive Officer. Our success will also depend on our ability to recruit additional highly skilled personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in hiring or retaining such key personnel, or that any of our key personnel will remain employed with us. Anti takeover provisions in our charter documents, stockholder rights plan and in Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control and, as a result, negatively impact our stockholders We have taken a number of actions that could have the effect of discouraging a takeover attempt. For example, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan that would cause substantial dilution to a stockholder, and substantially increase the cost paid by a stockholder, who attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors. This could prevent us from being acquired. In addition, our certificate of incorporation grants the board of directors the authority to fix the rights, preferences and privileges of and issue up to 4,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder action. Although we have no present intention to issue shares of preferred stock, such an issuance could have the effect of making it more difficult and less attractive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Preferred stock may also have other rights, including economic rights senior to our common stock that could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. In addition, we are subject to the anti takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. This section provides that except in certain limited circumstances a corporation shall not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three year period following the time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of SanDisk. Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, volatile, which could result in investors losing all or part of their investments. The market price of our stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to continue to fluctuate in the future. For example, in the 12 months ending December 31, 2001, our stock price fluctuated significantly from a low of $8.61 to a high of $48.69. We believe that such fluctuations will continue as a result of future announcements concerning us, our competitors or principal customers regarding technological innovations, new product introductions, governmental regulations, litigation or changes in earnings estimates by analysts. In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations and the market prices of the securities of high technology and semiconductor companies have been especially volatile, often for reasons outside the control of the particular companies. These fluctuations as well as general economic, political and market conditions may have an adverse affect on the market price of our common stock. Our Digital Portal, Inc., or DPI, joint venture has an unproven product and an untested market and may not be successful. In April 2002, we and PMI agreed that we would scale down our kiosk activities while PMI will assume responsibility to finance and direct the future growth of DPI Under the new agreement, we will convert approximately $400,000 in receivables from DPI to equity in DPI and will no longer be required to make additional investments in DPI or guarantee DPIs equipment leases. If DPI is unsuccessful, our investment may become worthless, requiring us to record a loss equal to the total amount invested. 51 Table of Contents We have substantially increased our indebtedness, which may restrict our cash flow, make it difficult for us to obtain future financing, divert our resources from other uses, limit our ability to react to changes in the industry, and place us at a competitive disadvantage. On December 24, 2001, we completed a private placement of $125.0 million of 4 % Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2006, or Notes, and on January 10, 2002, we sold an additional $25.0 million of the Notes pursuant to the exercise by the initial purchasers of their option. As a result, we incurred $150.0 million aggregate principal amount of additional indebtedness, substantially increasing our ratio of debt to total capitalization. While the notes are outstanding, we will have debt service obligations on the notes of approximately $6.8 million per year in interest payments. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to meet these obligations and must instead use our existing cash or investments, we may have to reduce, curtail or terminate other activities of our business. We intend to fulfill our debt service obligations from cash generated by our operations, if any, and from our existing cash and investments. If necessary, among other alternatives, we may add lease lines of credit to finance capital expenditures and obtain other long term debt and lines of credit. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The level of our indebtedness, among other things, could: require the dedication of a substantial portion of any cash flow from our operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes; make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; cause us to use a significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents or possibly liquidate other assets to repay the total principal amount due under the Notes and our other indebtedness if we were to default under the Notes or our other indebtedness; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business and the industries in which we complete; place us at a possible competitive disadvantage with respect to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources; and make us more vulnerable in the event of a further downturn in our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our debt service obligations, including our obligations under the Notes. In 2000, we entered into a joint venture agreement with Toshiba, under which we formed FlashVision. We agreed to guarantee one half of all FlashVision lease amounts up to a maximum guarantee of $175.0 million. As of March 31, 2002, we had guarantee obligations in the amount of $148.8 million in favor of ABN AMRO on the equipment lease lines to equip FlashVision. This guarantee constituted senior indebtedness under the Notes. In March 2002, FlashVision exercised its right of early termination under the lease facility and repaid all amounts outstanding thereunder in April 2002. FlashVision completed interim financing in the form of a bridge loan from Toshiba in April 2002 and we currently anticipate that FlashVision will finalize a new equipment lease arrangement by the end of the second quarter of 2002. If, in connection with the restructuring of our FlashVision business and the early termination of the ABN AMRO lease facility, we and Toshiba are unable to refinance the bridge loan or if we undertake guarantee or indemnification obligations under any permanent replacement facility, we may use a portion of the proceeds from the Notes to repay these obligations. This would result in the diversion of resources from other important areas of our business and could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in permanently replacing FlashVisions lease facility. 52 Table of Contents We may not be able to satisfy a fundamental change offer under the indenture governing the Notes. The indenture governing the Notes contains provisions that apply to a fundamental change. A fundamental change as defined in the indenture would occur if we were to be acquired for consideration other than cash or securities traded on a major U.S. securities market. If someone triggers a fundamental change, we may be required to offer to purchase the Notes with cash. This would result in the diversion of resources from other important areas of our business and could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we have to make a fundamental change offer, we cannot be sure that we will have enough funds to pay for all the Notes that the holders could tender. Our failure to redeem tendered notes upon a fundamental change would constitute a default under the indenture and might constitute a default under the terms of our other indebtedness, which would significantly harm our business and financial condition. We may not be able to pay our debt and other obligations. If our cash flow is inadequate to meet our obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on the Notes or our other indebtedness, we would be in default under the terms thereof, which would permit the holders of the Notes to accelerate the maturity of the Notes and also could cause defaults under our other indebtedness. Any such default would harm our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. In addition, we cannot assure you that we would be able to repay amounts due in respect of the Notes if payment of the Notes were to be accelerated following the occurrence of any other event of default as defined in the indenture governing the Notes. Moreover, we cannot assure that we will have sufficient funds or will be able to arrange for financing to pay the principal amount due on the Notes at maturity. We may need additional financing, which could be difficult to obtain. We currently expect that our existing cash and investment balances, cash generated from operations and the proceeds from the sale of the Notes will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements to fund operations and expected capital expenditures for at least the next twelve months. However, in the event we need to raise additional funds during that time period or in future periods, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. From time to time, we may decide to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings to fund our activities. If we issue additional equity securities, our stockholders will experience additional dilution and the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock or debt securities. In addition, if we raise funds through debt financing, we will have to pay interest and may be subject to restrictive covenants, which could harm our business. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, if and when needed, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities, grow our business or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated industry changes, any of which could have a negative impact on our business. The Notes and other indebtedness have rights senior to those of our current stockholders. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization or upon acceleration of the Notes due to an event of default under the indenture and in certain other events, our assets will be available for distribution to our current stockholders only after all senior indebtedness, including the obligations under the Notes, have been paid in full. As a result, there may not be sufficient assets remaining to make any distributions to our stockholders. Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and marketable equity security prices. To mitigate some of these risks, we utilize currency forward contracts. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes, and no significant derivative financial instruments were outstanding at December 31, 2001. Interest Rate Risk. Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. This is accomplished by investing in widely diversified short term investments, consisting primarily of investment grade securities, substantially all of which either mature within the next twelve 53 Table of Contents months or have characteristics of short term investments. A hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $429,000 decline (less than 0.5%) in the fair value of our available for sale debt securities. Foreign Currency Risk. A substantial majority of our revenue, expense and capital purchasing activity are transacted in U.S. dollars. However, we do enter into transactions in other currencies, primarily the Japanese Yen. To protect against reductions in value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in foreign exchange rates, we have established a hedging program. Currency forward contracts are utilized in this hedging program. Our hedging program reduces, but does not always entirely eliminate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. An adverse change of 10% in exchange rates would result in a decline in income before taxes in 2001 of approximately $256,000. Market Risk. We also hold available for sale equity securities in our short term investment portfolio and equity investments in semiconductor wafer manufacturing companies. A reduction in prices of 10% of these marketable equity securities would result in a decrease in the fair value of our investments in marketable equity securities of approximately $17.0 million. As of December 31, 2001, we had net unrealized gains on short term equity securities totaling $96.8 million which were included in other comprehensive income. These unrealized gains include an unrealized gain of $95.8 million on the appreciation in value of our investment in UMC. The market value of our investment in UMC has fluctuated significantly in the past and may decline in the future due to downturns in the semiconductor industry, declines in demand for UMCs products or unfavorable economic conditions. If we sell UMC shares in future periods, we may recognize a gain or loss due to fluctuations in the market value of our UMC stock. All of the potential changes noted above are based on sensitivity analysis performed on our financial position at December 31, 2001. Actual results may differ materially. 54 Table of Contents 
 
