ITEM 7: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview Years Ended January 2, % of December 28, % of December 29, % of 2005 Revenue 2003 Revenue 2002 Revenue (Dollars, in thousands) Product revenues $ 1,602,836 90.2 % $ 982,341 91.0 % $ 492,900 91.1 % License and royalty revenues 174,219 9.8 % 97,460 9.0 % 48,373 8.9 % Total revenues 1,777,055 100.0 % 1,079,801 100.0 % 541,273 100.0 % Cost of product revenues 1,091,350 61.4 % 641,189 59.4 % 352,452 65.1 % Gross profit 685,705 38.6 % 438,612 40.6 % 188,821 34.9 % Operating expenses Research and development 124,994 7.0 % 84,200 7.8 % 63,177 11.7 % Sales and marketing 91,296 5.1 % 66,317 6.1 % 40,407 7.5 % General and administrative 50,824 2.9 % 31,057 2.9 % 27,086 5.0 % Total operating expenses 267,114 15.0 % 181,574 16.8 % 130,670 24.1 % Operating income 418,591 23.6 % 257,038 23.8 % 58,151 10.7 % Non operating income (loss), net 4,609 0.3 % (15,157 ) (1.4 )% (18,172 ) (3.4 )% Income before taxes 423,200 23.8 % 241,881 22.4 % 39,979 7.4 % Provision for income taxes 156,584 8.8 % 73,022 6.8 % 3,739 0.7 % Net income $ 266,616 15.0 % $ 168,859 15.6 % $ 36,240 6.7 % General. Our flash data storage cards are marketed and sold primarily in the consumer electronics market. We expect that as we reduce the price of our flash cards, consumers will demand an increasing number of megabytes of memory. In order to profitably capitalize on price elasticity in the market for flash data storage cards, we must reduce our cost per megabyte at a rate similar to the change in selling price per megabyte to the consumer. Our operating results are affected by a number of factors including, among others, the unit volume of product sales, the flash memory density of the products sold, competitive pricing pressures, availability of foundry capacity from both captive and non captive sources, the timing and volume of sell through by our distributors and retail customers to their customers, variations in manufacturing cycle times, fluctuations in manufacturing yields and manufacturing capacity utilization, the timing of significant orders, our ability to accurately forecast demand and obtain sufficient supply, changes in product and customer mix, market acceptance of new or enhanced versions of our products, changes in the channels through which our products are distributed, timing of new product announcements and introductions by us and our competitors, the timing of license and royalty revenues, fluctuations in product costs, increased research and development expenses, and exchange rate fluctuations. See Factors That May Affect Future Results. We operate in one business segment, flash memory products. Our chief decision maker, our President and Chief Executive Officer, evaluates our performance based on company wide, consolidated results. Revenue is evaluated based on geographic region and by product category. Separate financial information is not available by product category with respect to asset allocation, expense allocation or profitability. Memory Sourcing. NAND memory is the largest component of the cost of our products. We preferentially source NAND memory from ventures with Toshiba and our Toshiba foundry arrangement. We also purchase flash memory products from non captive sources, to supplement our captive supply, allowing us to flexibly capture more market share. This non captive supply enabled us to generate additional sales and profits even though the gross margin on our non captive supply is significantly lower 17 Table of Contents than the gross margin on our captive supply. However, our captive supply requires us to invest in capital assets, research and development and start up and other production costs. We expect to continue sourcing non captive flash memory. Licensing and Royalties. The timing and amount of royalty revenues and the recognition of license fees can vary substantially from quarter to quarter depending on the terms of our license agreements and the timing and volume of sales of products by our licensees. Gross margins and operating income fluctuate more with changes in license and royalty revenues than with changes in product revenues since license and royalty revenues have no variable costs of sale. Retail Sales. Our arrangements with retailers often involve complex terms. These terms include providing the retailer with a right to return unsold product, market development funds, cooperative advertising funds, price protection, promotions, and volume incentive rebates. In some cases, we consign inventory to our customers. These consignment activities reduce our working capital and involve administrative costs to track and account for our inventory. We defer recognition of revenue on sales to retailers and distributors until they sell the product they have purchased from us to their customers. We also have agreements with some of our customers in which we agree to protect their inventory balances against changes in our suggested retail price. Our retail business is seasonal, with the fourth quarter being the strongest due to holiday sales in North America. Memory Market Dynamics. Semiconductor memory markets have generally been characterized by cycles of undersupply leading to the building of additional capacity, which in turn has led to oversupply which reduces prevailing prices per megabyte in the market. In an oversupply environment, the value of our inventory decreases resulting in charges against earnings. In 2001 for example, we recorded approximately $85.0 million of charges related to inventory revaluation. We may be forced to reduce the carrying value of our inventory if market demand for our products deteriorates and our inventory levels exceed customer orders. In addition, we may record additional lower of cost or market price adjustments to our inventories if pricing pressure results in a net realizable value that is lower than our cost. Our business is characterized by constant focus on cost reduction. NAND flash memory cost reduction is achieved by transitioning to new generations of technology, larger wafer sizes or improving yields. Manufacturing yields are lower at the start of manufacturing each successive product generation. During the start up phase, the fabrication equipment and operating expenses are applied to a relatively small output of production wafers, making this output very expensive. In the next two to three years, we expect to make substantial new investments in additional fabrication capacity in the ventures with Toshiba. Critical Accounting Policies & Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including, among others, those related to customer programs and incentives, product returns, bad debts, inventories, investments, income taxes, warranty obligations, contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for our judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities when those values are not readily apparent from other sources. Estimates have historically approximated actual results. However, future results will differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. Revenue Recognition, Sales Returns and Allowances and Sales Incentive Programs. We recognize net revenues when the earnings process is complete, as evidenced by an agreement with the customer, transfer of title and acceptance, if applicable, fixed pricing and reasonable assurance of realization. Sales made to distributors and retailers are generally under agreements allowing price protection and or right of return and, therefore, the sales and related costs of these transactions are deferred until the retailers or distributors sell the merchandise to their end customer, or the rights of return expire. At January 2, 2005 18 Table of Contents and December 28, 2003, deferred income, from sales to distributors and retailers was $82.0 million and $90.1 million, respectively. Estimated sales returns are provided for as a reduction to product revenue and were not material for any period presented in our consolidated financial statements. Revenue from patent licensing arrangements is recognized when earned and estimable. The timing of revenue recognition is dependent on the terms of each license agreement and on the timing of product shipments of licensed products. We generally recognize royalty revenue when it is reported to us by our licensees, which is generally one quarter in arrears from our licensees sales. We recognize license fee revenue on a straight line basis over the life of the license. We have cross license arrangements that include a guarantee of access to flash memory supply. We recognize license fees received on a straight line basis over the life of the license, which corresponds to the term of the supply guarantees. We recognize no income associated with the license we receive back from the licensee because we have no vendor specific evidence as to the fair value of those rights. When we purchase product under our guaranteed capacity from our licensee, we recognize the gross profits from the sale of such goods in the ordinary manner and do not increase our license and royalty revenue because we have no vendor specific evidence of the fair value of the supply guarantee. At January 2, 2005 and December 28, 2003, deferred revenue from patent license agreements was $28.1 million and $34.5 million, respectively. The cost of revenues associated with patent license and royalty revenues was insignificant for each of the three years in the period ended January 2, 2005. We record estimated reductions to revenue for customer and distributor incentive programs and offerings, including price protection, promotions, co op advertising, and other volume based incentives and expected returns. Additionally, we have incentive programs that require us to estimate, based on historical experience, the number of customers who will actually redeem the incentive. Marketing development programs are either recorded as a reduction to revenue or as an addition to marketing expense in compliance with the consensus reached by the Emerging Issues Task Force, or EITF, of the Financial Standards Accounting Board, or FASB, on issue 01 09. Inventories and Inventory Valuation. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (approximating first in, first out) or market. Market value is based upon an estimated average selling price reduced by estimated costs of disposal. Should actual market conditions differ from our estimates, our future results of operations could be materially affected. Our inventory impairment charges permanently establish a new cost basis and are not subsequently reversed to income even if circumstances later suggest that increased carrying amounts are recoverable. Rather these amounts reverse into income only if, as and when the inventory is sold. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. We estimate the collectibility of our accounts receivable based on a combination of factors. In circumstances where we are aware of a specific customers inability to meet its financial obligations to us (e.g., bankruptcy filings or substantial down grading of credit ratings), we provide a specific allowance for bad debts against amounts due to reduce the net recognized receivable to the amount we reasonably believe will be collected. For all other customers, we provide allowances for bad debts based on the length of time the receivables are past due based on our historical experience. If circumstances change (e.g., higher than expected defaults or an unexpected material adverse change in a major customers ability to meet its financial obligations to us), our estimates of the collectibility of an account could be reduced by a material amount. Warranty Costs. The majority of our products are warrantied for one to five years. A provision for the estimated future cost to repair or replace non conforming products is recorded at the time of customer invoice. Our warranty obligation is affected by product failure rates and repair or replacement costs incurred in supporting a product failure. Should actual product failure rates, or repair or replacement costs differ from our estimates, increases or decreases to our warranty liability would be required. Accounting for Investments. If we hold equity interests representing less than 20% of the outstanding voting interests of an entity we invested in, we use the cost method of accounting. If we hold at least 20% but less than a majority of the outstanding voting interests of an entity we invested in, we use the equity 19 Table of Contents method of accounting. With respect to all equity investments, we review the degree of control that our investment and other arrangements give us over the entity we have invested in and our business to confirm that these conclusions are correct. Additionally, we evaluate whether entities that we have invested in are variable interest entities within the meaning of the Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46, Accounting for Variable Interest Entities. If those entities are variable interest entities, then we determine whether we are the primary beneficiary of that entity by reference to our contractual and business arrangements with respect to residual gains and residual losses on liquidation of that entity. Share Based Compensation. As discussed below, we historically accounted for employee stock based compensation using the intrinsic value method, and accordingly no expense has been recognized in our consolidated income statements for options granted to employees or directors under our stock option plans. We have also accounted for our employee purchase plan using the intrinsic value method and accordingly, we have not recognized any expense for the discount provided on the fair market value of the stock sold under our employee stock purchase plan. Valuation of Financial Instruments. Our short term investments include investments in marketable equity and debt securities. Our investments in these securities are carried at market value, with any increases or decreases above cost, or amortized cost in the case of debt securities, being recorded as a component of other comprehensive income. We evaluate market conditions, offering prices, trends of earnings, price multiples and other key measures to determine whether declines in market value below cost, or amortized cost in the case of debt securities, is other than temporary. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, we recognize an impairment loss in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. We have the financial capability and the intent to hold our loans to the ventures with Toshiba until maturity and accordingly those loans are carried at cost and their value in our financial statements is not adjusted to market value. Deferred Tax Assets. We provide a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that such an amount will not be realized. At January 2, 2005, we carried a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets of approximately $12.3 million based primarily on our more likely than not basis, the inability to take tax benefit for unrealized capital losses on our investments in foundries. At December 28, 2003, based on the weight of all available evidence, we carried no valuation allowance on our net deferred tax assets. At January 2, 2005, our valuation allowance associated with unrealized losses on our Tower investment was reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income. Foreign Currency. We determine the functional currency for our parent company and each of our subsidiaries by reviewing the currencies in which their respective operating activities occur. Transaction gains and losses arising from selling products and other activities other than the applicable functional currency are calculated using average exchange rates for the applicable period and reported as a non operating item in each period. Balance sheet items denominated in a currency other than the applicable functional currency are translated using the exchange rate in effect on the balance sheet date and are included as a separate component of other comprehensive income. As permitted under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 52, Foreign Currency Translation, we do not mark to market our contingent foreign currency exposure on our take or pay and lease guarantee obligations related to the ventures with Toshiba. Although we do not currently hedge our foreign currency exposure, we evaluate our foreign currency exposures and may enter into hedges or other risk mitigating arrangements in the future. Results of Operations Comparison of 2004 and 2003 Product Revenues. Our 2004 product revenues were $1.6 billion, an increase of 63% over $982.3 million in 2003. The increase in our product revenues was comprised of a 167% increase in the number of megabytes sold and a 38% reduction in our average selling price per megabyte. The markets 20 Table of Contents that we sell to have been price elastic. As the price per megabyte came down, the average memory density of our products sold increased significantly and our unit sales also increased by 53%. The growth in our unit sales is also attributable to growth in the markets for digital still cameras, USB flash drives, feature phones and, most recently, flash based digital audio players. In addition, our fiscal 2004 consisted of 53 weeks as compared to 52 weeks in the prior year. We expect our average selling price per megabyte to continue to decline, with growth in our megabytes sold to more than offset the price decline, resulting in continued revenue growth. License and Royalty Revenues. Our 2004 license and royalty revenues were $174.2 million, an increase of 79% from $97.5 million in 2003. The increase in license and royalty income was primarily due to increased royalty bearing sales by our licensees. Gross Margins. Our product gross margin in 2004 was 31.9% down 2.8% from 34.7% in 2003. The largest driver of the decline in product gross margins was an increased reliance on non captive memory sources. We earn significantly lower gross margins on non captive memory than on captive memory supply, and non captive memory accounted for approximately 35% and 24% of our memory sourcing in 2004 and 2003, respectively. Our captive gross margin improved by approximately two percentage points as our cost reductions were greater than the decline in average selling price per megabyte. This partially offset the impact of our higher non captive mix. We expect our 2005 gross margins will include incremental costs associated with FlashVisions 70 nanometer transition and the start up of Flash Partners 300 millimeter production line. Research and Development. Our research and development expenses for 2004 and 2003 were $125.0 million or 7.0% of revenues and $84.2 million or 7.8% of revenues, respectively. Our research and development expense growth of 48.5% was primarily due to increased payroll and payroll related expenses associated with higher headcount in support of our broadening product portfolio, higher vendor engineering costs and costs associated with the initial design and development of manufacturing process technology related to Flash Partners 300 millimeter production line. We grew our research and development headcount to 340 at the end of 2004 from 272 at the end of 2003. We expect that 2005 research and development expenses may increase as a percentage of revenues as Flash Partners start up costs will continue to be reflected as research and development expenses until the 300 millimeter NAND production line achieves technological feasibility. Sales and Marketing. Our 2004 sales and marketing expenses were $91.3 million or 5.1% of revenues compared with $66.3 million or 6.1% of revenues in 2003. Our sales and marketing expense growth of 37.7% was primarily related to increased tradeshow, advertising and branding, and payroll and payroll related expenses, all in support of our higher revenue base. In 2004, advertising and branding activities included television advertising in the United States, increased North American and Asia Pacific print media spending and advertising and merchandising for such product lines as USB drives, wireless mobile and Shoot & Store. General and Administrative. Our 2004 general and administrative expenses were $50.8 million or 2.9% of revenues compared with $31.1 million or 2.9% of revenues in 2003. Our general and administrative expense growth of 63.6% primarily relates to increased legal expenses related in part to higher litigation expenses to defend our intellectual property, increased staffing and consulting expenses to support our expanded business and compliance with the Sarbanes Oxley Act, as well as provisions for doubtful accounts due to the growth in accounts receivable balances. We expect that our expenditures on intellectual property litigation will increase in 2005 over 2004. Non Operating Income (Loss), net. Net non operating income items were $4.6 million. Non operating income was comprised of net interest income of $14.4 million, a settlement of $6.2 million from a third party brokerage firm related to the unauthorized disposition of our investment in UMC, an other than temporary reduction in the value of our investment in Tower of ($11.8) million and other items of ($4.2) million. Our non operating items for 2003 netted to ($15.2) million. 21 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes. Our 2004 effective tax rate was approximately 37% compared to an effective tax rate in 2003 of 30%. Our 2004 effective tax rate differs from the statutory rate primarily due to state tax expense, net of federal benefit. Our future tax rate may be impacted by state taxes, our ability to realize tax benefits from capital losses and the geographic mix of our earnings. Other Comprehensive Income. Foreign currency translation adjustments in 2004 were $5.6 million. Unrealized loss on investments was $38.2 million. We expect that over time our international operations will expand resulting in increased foreign currency exposure. Changes in prevailing interest rates in the United States would affect the fair market value of our short term investment portfolio, which generated the majority of our unrealized gains at the end of 2004. Other comprehensive income adjustments totaled $90.2 million in 2003. Cash Flows. Operating activities generated $227.7 million of cash during the year ended January 2, 2005. Significant contributors to the generation of cash from operations were net income of $266.6 million, non cash adjustments to income for depreciation and amortization of $38.9 million, allowances for doubtful accounts of $4.6 million, amortization/accretion related to original premium/discount on short term investments of $3.2 million and amortization of bond issuance costs of $2.6 million; decreases in deposits and other assets of $13.3 million, increases in accrued payroll and related expenses of $13.5 million and both current and non current other accrued liabilities of $15.2 million. These were partially offset by increases in the inventory balance of $79.5 million, accounts receivable of $14.9 million and decreases in deferred income on shipments to distributors and retailers and deferred revenue of $15.4 million, and decreases in accounts payable, income taxes payable and other current liabilities to related parties of $6.2 million. Operating activities generated $272.5 million during the year ended December 28, 2003. We used $523.0 million for investing activities. We increased our short term investment balance by $337.0 million, loaned $33.6 million to FlashVision, invested $23.1 million in Flash Partners, purchased $63.4 million of 200 millimeter semiconductor wafer manufacturing equipment to be used at Toshibas Yokkaichi Operations and purchased $62.4 million of test equipment and other capital items. We used $335.7 million for investing activities during the year ended December 28, 2003. We generated $24.7 million of cash from exercises of stock options and sales under our employee stock purchase plan. We generated $576.9 million from financing activities during the year ended December 28, 2003. As discussed under Liquidity and Capital Resources, we expect to grow our investments in Flash Partners and FlashVision in 2005. Comparison of 2003 and 2002 Product Revenues. In 2003, our product revenues were $982.3 million, an increase of 99% over $492.9 in 2002. The increase in our product revenues was primarily the result of higher unit volumes and higher average card capacities within the digital still camera market. In addition, we entered the market for USB flash drives which contributed to our 2003 revenue growth. Our megabytes sold increased 237% in 2003 compared to 2002, while our average selling price per megabyte decreased approximately 41%. License and Royalty Revenues. In 2003, our license and royalty revenues were $97.5 million, an increase of 101% from $48.4 million in 2002. The increase in license and royalty revenues between 2003 and 2002 was primarily the result of increased royalty bearing sales by our licensees. Gross Margins. Our product gross margin in 2003 was 34.7%, up 6.2% from 28.5% in 2002. The increase in product gross margin was the result of a fairly stable pricing environment particularly in the second half of 2003 resulting from constrained industry supply, combined with lower manufacturing costs resulting from the 160 nanometer to 130 nanometer conversion and economies of scale related to higher unit volumes. These positive contributors to gross margin were partially offset by FlashVision start up and tool relocation costs. In addition, during fiscal 2003, we sold approximately $16.2 million of inventory that had been fully written off in prior periods, which favorably impacted gross margin by approximately 2 percentage points for fiscal 2003. Research and Development. Our 2003 research and development expenses were $84.2 million or 7.8% of revenues compared with $63.2 million or 11.7% of revenues in 2002. Research and development 22 Table of Contents expenses in 2003 compared to 2002 represented a growth of 33.3%. The increase in research and development spending was attributable primarily to development and support of an increasing number of card formats and product lines. Our headcount grew to 272 at the end of 2003 from 198 at the end of 2002. Sales and Marketing. Our 2003 sales and marketing expenses were $66.3 million or 6.1% of revenues compared with $40.4 million or 7.5% of revenues in 2002. Our headcount grew to 127 at the end of 2003 from 108 at the end of 2002. Our expense growth was primarily due to increased headcount as well as increased spending for cooperative and product advertising, merchandising, product launches and promotional activities. General and Administrative. Our 2003 general and administrative expenses were $31.1 million or 2.9% compared with $27.1 million or 5.0% of revenues in 2002. The 14.7% increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to increased headcount resulting in higher total salaries and payroll related expenses offset by lower legal and intellectual property litigation expenses during the year. Our headcount grew to 152 at the end of 2003 from 130 at the end of 2002. Non operating Loss, net. Our non operating items for 2003 netted to ($15.2) million. Non operating income was comprised of net interest income of $2.1 million a loss on the misappropriation of our UMC shares of ($18.3) million, a gain on the authorized sale of shares of UMC of $3.7 million and ($2.7) million of other items. Our non operating items for 2002 netted to ($18.2) million. Provision for Income Taxes. Our effective tax rate in 2003 was 30% compared with 9% in 2002. Our 2003 tax rate differs from the statutory rate primarily due to state tax expense, a reversal of the tax benefit we recognized in 2001 and 2002 related to the unrealized gain on the disposition of our UMC shares, and to the benefit provided by the reversal of $47 million in valuation allowance carried on net deferred tax assets at the end of fiscal 2002 which could be taken principally because our net operating loss carryforwards have been fully realized. Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), net. Foreign currency translation adjustments were $8.0 million and unrealized gains on investments were $82.7 million for 2003. Other comprehensive loss adjustments totaled ($82.3) million for 2002. Cash Flows. Operating activities generated $272.5 million of cash during the year ended December 28, 2003. Significant contributors to the generation of cash from operations were net income of $168.9 million, non cash adjustments to income for depreciation and amortization of $23.0 million, loss on unauthorized sales of UMC shares of $18.3 million, amortization/accretion related to original premium/discount on short term investments of $2.0 million and allowances for doubtful accounts of $1.4 million; decreases in income taxes refund receivable of $1.6 million and prepaid expenses and other assets of $7.7 million, increases in deferred income on shipments to distributors and retailers and deferred revenue of $57.7 million, accounts payable of $51.3 million, other current liabilities to related parties of $29.1 million, income taxes payable of $26.2 million and accrued payroll and related expenses of $16.5 million. These were partially offset by increases in accounts receivable of $104.6 million and the inventory balance of $28.3 million. Operating activities generated $107.0 million during the year ended December 29, 2002. We used $335.7 million for investing activities. We increased our short term investment balance by $295.1 million, purchased $52.5 million of test equipment and other fixed assets. We received $22.8 million, resulting in a recognized a gain of $7.0 million from the authorized sale of UMC shares and received $20.0 million under the settlement agreement we entered into in connection with the unauthorized sale of UMC shares. We used $105.6 million for investing activities in December 29, 2002. We generated $55.3 million of cash from exercises of stock options and sales under our employee stock purchase plan and we completed an underwritten public offering of approximately 8.3 million shares resulting in net proceeds of $521.6 million. We generated $29.9 million for financing activities in December 29, 2002. 23 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquid Assets. At January 2, 2005, we had cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.3 billion. As of that date, the cost basis of our investment in 22.2 million UMC shares was $13.4 million and its market value was $14.2 million. As of January 2, 2005, we held 9.1 million Tower shares whose book value and market value was $20.5 million. As of that date, we also held a warrant to purchase approximately 360,000 Tower shares and we estimated the market value of that warrant to be less than $0.1 million. We have agreed not to dispose of 6.3 million of our 9.0 million Tower shares until 2006. Short Term Liquidity. As of January 2, 2005, our working capital balance was $1.5 billion. We do not expect any liquidity constraints in the next twelve months. In 2005, we currently expect to expend approximately $67.9 million on additional loans to FlashVision, approximately $230.0 million on investments in Flash Partners, $45.8 million on 200 millimeter semiconductor wafer manufacturing equipment to be installed at Toshibas Yokkaichi Operations and $62 million (of which $3.8 million was committed as of January 2, 2005) on property and equipment, which includes test equipment and other assets to be used in manufacturing. Long Term Requirements. Depending on the demand for our products, we may decide to make additional investments, which could be substantial, in wafer fabrication foundry capacity and assembly and test manufacturing equipment to support our business in the future. We may also make equity investments in other companies or engage in merger or acquisition transactions. Contingent Obligations. We agreed to reimburse Toshiba for 49.9% of losses it sustains under its guarantee of FlashVisions operating lease with Mizuho bank. As of January 2, 2005, the maximum exposure for both us and Toshiba under that guarantee was 23.1 billion Japanese yen and our maximum exposure was 11.5 billion Japanese yen. See Item 1. Business Ventures With Toshiba FlashVision. Our reimbursement agreement with Toshiba is an exhibit to this report and it should be read carefully in its entirety for a comprehensive understanding of our obligation. Toshiba Ventures. The terms of the FlashVision venture contractually obligate us to expand FlashVisions capacity. Our total future investment commitment as of January 2, 2005, was estimated to be 7.0 billion Japanese yen to be loaned to FlashVision to fund the acquisition of new equipment and equipment to upgrade FlashVisions production from 90 nanometers to 70 nanometers, and 5.4 billion Japanese yen for 200 millimeter semiconductor wafer manufacturing equipment to be installed at Toshibas Yokkaichi Operations. We currently do not have plans to expand FlashVisions capacity to include 300 millimeter wafers or lithography sizes smaller than 70 nanometers. The FlashVision master agreement and operating agreement are exhibits to this report and each one of them should be read carefully in its entirety for a comprehensive understanding of our obligations. The terms of the FlashVision venture contractually obligate us to purchase half of FlashVisions NAND wafer production output. This obligation is denominated in Japanese yen and is non cancellable. We cannot estimate the total amount of this commitment as of January 2, 2005 because our price is determined by reference to the future cost to produce the semiconductor wafers. As part of the FlashVision and Flash Partners agreements, we agreed to share in Toshibas costs associated with NAND product development and its common semiconductor research and development activities. As of January 2, 2005, we had accrued liabilities related to those expenses of $5.5 million. Our common research and development obligation is variable but capped at increasing fixed quarterly amounts through 2008 and is not subject to any payment caps thereafter. Our direct research and development contribution is determined based on a variable computation. The common R&D participation agreement and the product development agreement are exhibits to this report and should be read carefully in their entirety for a more complete understanding of these arrangements. We guaranteed on an unsecured and several basis 50% of Flash Partners lease obligation to Mitsui Leasing & Development Co., Ltd. Our maximum exposure under the guarantee is 25 billion Japanese yen. On December 23, 2004, the date of inception of our guarantee, Flash Partners had no outstanding lease 24 Table of Contents obligations and under the Financial Accounting Standards Boards Interpretation No. 45, Accounting for Guarantees, we concluded that the fair value of a guarantee was zero on that date. Flash Partners had no outstanding lease obligations as of January 2, 2005. However we expect Flash Partners to draw down the entire amount of the lease facility in 2005. See Item 1. Business Ventures With Toshiba Flash Partners. Flash Partners master lease agreement and our guarantee agreement with Mitsui Leasing & Development is an exhibit to this report and each one of them should be read carefully in its entirety for a comprehensive understanding of our obligation. The terms of the Flash Partners venture contractually obligate us to expand Flash Partners capacity. Although we intend to expand Flash Partners capacity to 62,500 wafer starts per month and beyond, we and Toshiba have committed to expand its capacity to 15,000 wafer starts per month. We currently estimate our funding obligation at the 15,000 wafer starts per month level to be approximately 55 billion Japanese yen of which 25 billion Japanese yen is expected to be financed through Flash Partners lease facility with Mitsui Leasing & Development. Flash Partners master agreement and operating agreement are exhibits to this report and each one of them should be read carefully in its entirety for a comprehensive understanding of our obligations. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Our contractual obligations and off balance sheet arrangements at January 2, 2005, and the effect those contractual obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow over the next five years is presented in textual and tabular format in Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Impact of Currency Exchange Rates As of January 2, 2005, we had no hedges in place against our risk of fluctuations in foreign currencies. Future exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our foreign currency transaction and translation adjustments were not material over the past three years. Although most of our transactions in the Peoples Republic of China are denominated in United States dollars, we have noted the significant growth in the local economy over the past several years. The Chinese yuan to United States dollar exchange rate is currently fixed by the Chinese government, but instability in the Chinese economy or exchange rates could lead to our subcontractors in the Peoples Republic of China demanding altered terms in their arrangements with us. For a discussion of foreign operating risks and foreign currency risks, see Factors That May Affect Future Results. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards The FASB adopted a revised Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, or SFAS 123R, Share Based Payments, with an effective date of June 15, 2005. We expect to adopt SFAS 123R in the third quarter of 2005, a transition provision allowed under SFAS 123R, and we currently do not expect to restate prior periods to conform with the new accounting standard. SFAS 123R will require us to recognize an expense based on the fair value of all share based payments to employees, including grants of options to buy shares of our common stock. We are unable to estimate the effect of adopting SFAS 123R because the actual amount will be determined by reference to inputs to our option pricing model at the time of future share based compensation awards. Adoption of SFAS 123R is expected to increase our operating expenses. The FASB adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 151, Inventory Costs, an Amendment to ARB No. 43, with an effective date of June 15, 2005. SFAS 151 requires that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and spoilage be recognized as current period charges and requires the allocation of fixed production overheads to inventory based on the normal 25 Table of Contents capacity of the applicable production facility. As permitted by SFAS 151, we will adopt SFAS 151 at the beginning of 2005 and do not expect that its adoption will have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations. The EITF of the FASB delayed the effectiveness of a portion of the EITF consensus on Issue 03 01, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment. The delayed portions of the consensus on EITF 03 01 would require recognition of an other than temporary impairment of a debt instrument based on interest rate changes, sector credit ratings and company specific changes that do not result in the conclusion that non collection of principal or interest is probable. Had EITF 03 01 been effective for 2004, we do not believe it would have had a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Factors That May Affect Future Results Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which may adversely affect our operations and our stock price. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future. This fluctuation could result from a variety of factors, including, among others, the following: the factors listed elsewhere under Factors That May Affect Future Results; unpredictable or changing demand for our products; decline in the average selling prices, net of promotions, for our products due to excess supply, competitive pricing pressures and strategic price reductions initiated by us or our competitors; our license and royalty revenues may decline in the future as our existing license agreements expire or our licensees reach their royalty payment caps; timing of sell through by our distributors and retail customers; continued development of new markets and products for NAND flash memory; timing and volume of wafer production from our Flash Partners venture and costs associated with the Flash Partners facility; increased purchases of flash memory products from our non captive sources that may affect our gross margins; difficulty in forecasting and managing inventory levels; particularly, building a large inventory of unsold product due to non cancelable contractual obligations to purchase materials such as flash memory, controllers, printed circuit boards and discrete components; write downs of our investments in fabrication capacity, other fixed assets, equity investments and prepaid wafer credits; expensing of share based compensation; adverse changes in product and customer mix; terrorist attacks, governmental responses to those attacks and natural disasters; and changes in general economic conditions. Sales to a small number of customers represent a significant portion of our revenues and if we were to lose one of our major licensees or customers or experience any material reduction in orders from any of our customers, our revenues and operating results would suffer. Sales to our top 10 customers and licensees accounted for more than 55%, 48% and 45% of our total revenues during 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. If we were to lose one of our major licensees or customers or experience any material reduction in orders from any of our customers or in sales of licensed products by our licensees, our revenues and operating results would suffer. Our sales are generally made by standard purchase orders 26 Table of Contents rather than long term contracts. Accordingly, our customers may generally terminate or reduce their purchases from us at any time without notice or penalty. In addition, the composition of our major customer base changes from year to year as the market demand for our customers products changes. Additionally, our license and royalty revenues may decline in the future as our existing license agreements expire, caps are reached or rates change. Our business depends significantly upon sales of products in the highly competitive consumer market, a significant portion of which are made to retailers and through distributors, and if our distributors and retailers are not successful in this market, we could experience substantial product returns, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our sales are made through retailers, either directly or through distributors. Sales through these channels typically include rights to return unsold inventory and protection against price declines. As a result, we do not recognize revenue until after the product has been sold through to the end user, in the case of sales to retailers, or to distributor customers, in the case of sales to distributors. If our distributors and retailers are not successful in this market, there could be substantial product returns or price protection claims, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Availability of sell through data varies throughout the retail channel, which makes it difficult for us to determine actual retail product revenues until after the end of each of our fiscal quarters. Our arrangements with our customers also provide them price protections against declines in our recommended selling prices, which has the effect of reducing our deferred revenue. Except in limited circumstances, we do not have exclusive relationships with our retailers or distributors and therefore must rely on them to effectively sell our products over those of our competitors. Our average selling prices, net of promotions, may decline due to excess supply, competitive pricing pressures and strategic price reductions initiated by us or our competitors. The market for NAND flash products is competitive and characterized by rapid price declines. Price declines may be influenced by, among other factors, supply in excess of demand from existing or new competitors, technology transitions, new technologies or strategic actions by competitors to gain market share. If our cost reductions fail to keep pace with the rate of price declines, our gross margin and operating results will be negatively impacted. Our revenue depends, in part, on the success of products sold by our OEM customers. A portion of our sales are to a number of OEMs who bundle our flash memory products with their products, such as cameras or handsets. Our sales to these customers are dependent upon a particular OEMs ability to create, introduce, market and sell their products successfully in their respective markets. Should our OEM customers be unsuccessful in selling their products, which include our product, or should they decide to discontinue bundling our products, our results of operation and financial condition could be harmed. The continued growth of our business depends on the development of new markets and products for NAND flash memory. Over the last several years, we have derived the vast majority of our revenue from the digital camera market. As this market begins to experience slower growth rates, our growth will be increasingly dependent on the development of new markets and new products for NAND flash memory. Specifically, one of the new markets that we are focused on is the handset market in which feature phones are increasingly being designed to utilize NAND flash memory cards. There can be no assurance that new markets and products will develop and grow fast enough, or that new markets will adopt NAND flash technologies or our products, to enable us to continue our growth. We continually seek to develop new products and standards, which may not be widely adopted by consumers or, if adopted, may reduce demand by consumers for our older products. We continually seek to develop new products and standards and enhance existing products and standards with higher memory capacities and other enhanced features. We cannot assure you that our new products will gain market acceptance or that we will be successful in penetrating the new markets that we target, such as the digital audio player market or the consumable flash market with our Shoot and Store products. As we introduce new standards and new products, it will take time for these new standards and products to be adopted, for consumers to accept and transition to these new products and for significant sales to be generated from 27 Table of Contents them, if this happens at all. Moreover, broad acceptance of new standards or products by consumers may reduce demand for our older products. If this decreased demand is not offset by increased demand for our new products, our results of operations could be harmed. We cannot assure you that any new products or standards we develop will be commercially successful. We face competition from numerous manufacturers and marketers of products using flash memory, as well as from manufacturers of new and alternative technologies, and if we cannot compete effectively, our results of operations and financial condition will suffer. Our competitors include many large domestic and international companies that have greater access to advanced wafer manufacturing capacity and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do, which allows them to produce flash memory chips in high volumes at low costs and to sell these flash memory chips to our flash card competitors at a low cost. Some of our competitors may sell their flash memory chips at below their true manufacturing costs to gain market share and to cover their fixed costs. Such practices have been common in the DRAM industry during periods of excess supply, and have resulted in substantial losses in the DRAM industry. In addition, many semiconductor companies have announced plans to bring up substantial new capacity of flash memory. If the combined total new flash memory capacity exceeds the corresponding growth in demand, prices may decline dramatically, adversely impacting our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, current and future competitors produce or could produce alternative flash memory technologies that compete against our NAND MLC flash memory technology. Our primary semiconductor competitors currently include our historical competitors Renesas, Samsung and Toshiba. New competitors include Hynix, Infineon, Micron and ST Micro, who began shipping NAND or NAND competitive memory in 2004. If any of these competitors increase their memory output, it will likely result in a decline in the prevailing prices for packaged NAND semiconductor components. Additionally, manufacturers of NOR flash memory, such as Intel and Spansion, are attempting to use their flash memory for traditional NAND applications, both embedded and in data storage cards. We compete with flash memory card manufacturers and resellers. These companies purchase (or have captive supply of) flash memory components and assemble memory cards. These companies include, among others, Dane Elec Manufacturing, Delkin Devices, Fuji, Hagiwara, Hama, I/ O Data, Infineon, Jessops, Kingston, Lexar, M Systems, Matsushita Battery, Micron, Memorex, Panasonic, PNY, PQI, Pretec, Renesas, Samsung, Sharp, Sony, Toshiba and Viking Components. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do, have well recognized brand names or have the ability to operate their business on lower margins than we do. The success of our competitors may adversely affect our future sales revenues and may result in the loss of our key customers. Lexar introduced a line of flash cards bearing the Kodak brand name, which creates significant competition for our flash memory cards. In addition, other companies, such as Matrix Semiconductor, have announced products or technologies that may compete with our Shoot and Store products. Our TransFlash product faces competition from M Systems and Samsung who have announced similar form factors and from Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Intel, Samsung and Sharp who have competing embedded solutions. Our new music players face competition from similar products offered by other companies, including Apple, Creative, iriver, Rio and Samsung. If our products cannot compete effectively, our market share and profitability will be adversely impacted. Futhermore, many companies are pursuing new or alternative technologies, such as nanotechnologies or microdrives, which may compete with flash memory. These new or alternative technologies may provide smaller size, higher capacity, reduced costs, lower power consumption or other advantages. If we cannot compete effectively, our results of operations and financial condition will suffer. We have patent cross license agreements with several of our leading competitors. Under these agreements, we have enabled competitors to manufacture and sell products that incorporate technology covered by our patents. If we continue to license our patents to our competitors, competition may increase and may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including: price, quality, and on time delivery to our customers; product performance, availability and differentiation; success in developing new applications and new market segments; adequate manufacturing capacity; efficiency of production; timing of new product announcements or introductions by us, our customers and our competitors; the ability of our competitors to incorporate standards or develop formats which we do not offer; the number and nature of our competitors in a given market; successful protection of intellectual property rights; and general market and economic conditions. We can not assure you that we will be able to successfully compete in the marketplace. The semiconductor industry is subject to significant downturns and our take or pay commitments to the ventures with Toshiba may result in losses. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price decline, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both semiconductor companies and their customers products and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated declines in selling prices. We have experienced these conditions in our business in the past and may experience such downturns in the future. Our obligation to purchase 50% of the output from the ventures with Toshiba would harm our business and results of operations if there was a downturn in the memory markets. The adverse effects include, among other things, significant decreases in our pricing of products, significant excess, obsolete or lower of cost or market inventory write downs and the impairment of our investments in the ventures with Toshiba. Any future downturns could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on third party foundries for silicon supply and any shortage or disruption in our supply from these sources will reduce our revenues, earnings and gross margins. All of our flash memory card products require silicon supply for the memory and controller components. The substantial majority of our flash memory is currently supplied by the ventures with Toshiba and by Toshiba pursuant to our foundry agreement, and to a lesser extent by Renesas and Samsung. Currently, our controller wafers are only manufactured by Tower and UMC. In times of significant growth in global demand for flash memory, demand from our customers may outstrip the supply of flash memory and controllers available to us from our current sources. If our silicon vendors are unable to satisfy our requirements on competitive terms or at all due to natural disaster, power failure, labor unrest, their refusal to do business with us, their relationships with our competitors or other causes, we may lose potential sales and our business, financial condition and operating results may suffer. In addition, these risks are magnified at Toshibas Yokkaichi operations where the ventures are operated and Toshibas foundry capacity is located. For example, in 2004, more than one earthquake, as well as an unrelated power outage, resulted in production line stoppage and loss of wafers in Yokkaichi. Also, the Tower fabrication facility, from which we source controller wafers, is located in Israel, an area of political turmoil. Any disruption in supply from our silicon sources could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our actual manufacturing yields may be lower than our expectations resulting in increased costs and product shortages. The fabrication of our products requires wafers to be produced in a highly controlled 29 Table of Contents and ultra clean environment. Semiconductor manufacturing yields and product reliability are a function of both design technology and manufacturing process technology and production delays may be caused by equipment malfunctions, fabrication facility accidents or human errors. Yield problems may not be identified or improved until an actual product is made and can be tested. As a result, yield problems may not be identified until the wafers are well into the production process. We have from time to time experienced adverse yields which have adversely affected our business and results of operations. We have experienced adverse yields on more than one occasion when we have transitioned to new generations of products. If actual yields are low, we will experience higher costs and reduced product availability, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in 2005, we expect to begin transitioning from 90 nanometer technology to 70 nanometer technology at FlashVision. If yields from the 70 nanometer wafers do not improve as expected, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. In transitioning to new processes and products, we face production and market acceptance risks that have caused, and may in the future cause, significant product delays that could harm our business. Successive generations of our products have incorporated semiconductors with greater memory capacity per chip. The transition to new generations of products is highly complex and requires new controllers, new test procedures and modifications of numerous aspects of manufacturing, as well as extensive qualification of the new products by both us and our OEM customers. Any material delay in a qualification schedule could delay deliveries and adversely impact our operating results. We periodically have experienced significant delays in the development and volume production ramp up of our products. Similar delays could occur in the future and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and Toshiba plan to continue to expand the wafer fabrication capacity of our FlashVision and Flash Partners business ventures in Japan and as we do so, we will make substantial capital investments and incur substantial start up and tool relocation costs, which could adversely impact our operating results. We and Toshiba plan to make substantial investments in new capital assets to expand the wafer fabrication capacity of our FlashVision and Flash Partners business ventures in Japan. Each time that we and Toshiba add substantial new wafer fabrication capacity, we will experience significant initial design and development and start up costs as a result of the delay between the time of the investment and the time qualified products are manufactured and sold in volume quantities. For several quarters, we will incur initial design and development costs and start up costs and pay our share of ongoing operating activities even if we do not achieve the planned output volume or utilize our full share of the expanded output, and these costs will impact our gross margins, results of operations and financial condition Neither we nor Toshiba have operated 300 millimeter flash memory wafer manufacturing lines and there is no assurance that Flash Partners facility will perform as expected. We believe that our future success will continue to depend on the development and introduction of new generations of flash memory wafers, such as the 300 millimeter wafers to be produced by Flash Partners. These wafers are substantially larger in surface area and therefore more susceptible to new technological and manufacturing issues, such as mechanical and thermal stresses, than the current, mature 200 millimeter wafers that we use in production at Yokkaichi Fabs 1 and 2. Toshiba does not have prior experience in manufacturing 300 millimeter advanced NAND designs, nor in operating a new equipment set that has to be optimized to process 300 millimeter NAND wafers with competitive yields. Moreover, we have no experience in operating a wafer manufacturing line and we rely on Toshibas capability to operate and manage the Yokkaichi facilities. This reliance will increase when the Fab 3 facility commences operations. During the early stages of operating the new 300 millimeter wafer processing equipment, we expect the venture to generate a large number of test wafers and perform numerous process test splits that will increase our research and development expenses through most of 2005, prior to benefiting from any actual production output from Fab 3. We cannot assure you that Flash Partners facility will perform as expected or be ready for volume production on time. Nor can we assure you that the cost to equip the facility will not be significantly more than planned. Samsung, the worlds largest NAND flash memory manufacturer, already has experience manufacturing 300 millimeter wafers with 90 nanometer feature sizes. Also, Samsung is licensed under our patents to use MLC technology, which further enhances its manufacturing capabilities. 30 Table of Contents Samsung may be able to produce product at a lower cost than we can and increase their market share, thus adversely affecting our operating results and financial condition. We have a contingent indemnification obligation for certain liabilities Toshiba incurs as a result of Toshibas guarantee of the FlashVision equipment lease arrangement and have environmental and intellectual property indemnification as well as guarantee obligations with respect to Flash Partners. Toshiba has guaranteed FlashVisions lease arrangement with third party lessors. The total minimum remaining lease payments as of the end of 2004 were 23.1 billion Japanese yen. If Toshiba makes payments under its guarantee, we have agreed to indemnify Toshiba for 49.9% of its costs. We have guaranteed up to 25 billion Japanese yen of Flash Partners obligations to third party lessors. Flash Partners had not drawn any amounts under the lease facility as of the end of 2004, but intends to draw the entire facility in 2005. We and Toshiba have also agreed to mutually contribute to, and indemnify each other and Flash Partners for, environmental remediation costs or liability resulting from Flash Partners manufacturing operations in certain circumstances. In addition, we and Toshiba entered into a Patent Indemnification Agreement under which in many cases we will share in the expenses associated with the defense and cost of settlement associated with such claims. This agreement provides limited protection for us against third party claims that NAND flash memory products manufactured and sold by Flash Partners infringe third party patents. None of the foregoing obligations are reflected as liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. If we have to perform our obligations under these agreements, our business will be harmed and our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Seasonality in our business may result in our inability to accurately forecast our product purchase requirements. Sales of our products in the consumer electronics market are subject to seasonality. For example, sales have typically increased significantly in the fourth quarter of each year, sometimes followed by declines in the first quarter of the following year. This seasonality increases the complexity of forecasting our business. If our forecasts are inaccurate, we can lose market share or procure excess inventory or inappropriately increase or decrease our operating expenses, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. This seasonality also may lead to higher volatility in our stock price, the need for significant working capital investments in receivables and inventory and our need to build up inventory levels in advance of our most active selling seasons. From time to time, we overestimate our requirements and build excess inventories, and underestimate our requirements and have a shortage of supply, both of which harm our financial results. The majority of our products are sold into consumer markets, which are difficult to accurately forecast. A substantial majority of our quarterly sales are from orders received and fulfilled in that quarter. Additionally, we depend upon timely reporting from our retail and distributor customers as to their inventory levels and sales of our products in order to forecast demand for our products. Our international customers submit these reports on a monthly, not weekly, basis making it more difficult to accurately forecast demand. We have in the past significantly over forecasted and under forecasted actual demand for our products. The failure to accurately forecast demand for our products will result in lost sales or excess inventory both of which will have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. During periods of excess supply in the market for our flash memory products, we may lose market share to competitors who aggressively lower their prices. Conversely, under conditions of tight flash memory supply, we may be unable to adequately increase our production volumes or secure sufficient supply in order to maintain our market share. If we are unable to maintain market share, our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Our ability to respond to changes in market conditions from our forecast is limited by our purchasing arrangements with our silicon sources. These arrangements generally provide that the first three months of our rolling six month projected supply requirements are fixed and we may make only limited percentage changes in the second three months of the period covered by our supply requirement projections. 31 Table of Contents We are sole sourced for a number of our critical components and the absence of a back up supplier exposes our supply chain to unanticipated disruptions. We rely on our vendors, some of which are a sole source of supply, for many of our critical components. We do not have long term supply agreements with most of these vendors. Our business, financial condition and operating results could be significantly harmed by delays or reductions in shipments if we are unable to develop alternative sources or obtain sufficient quantities of these components. We depend on our third party subcontractors and our business could be harmed if our subcontractors do not perform as planned. We rely on third party subcontractors for our wafer testing, packaged memory final testing, product assembly, product testing and order fulfillment. We do not have long term contracts with our existing subcontractors nor do we expect to have long term contracts with any new subcontract suppliers. We do not have exclusive relationships with any of subcontractors and therefore cannot guarantee that they will devote sufficient resources to manufacturing our products. We cannot, and will not, be able to directly control product delivery schedules. Furthermore, we manufacture on a turnkey basis with some of our subcontract suppliers. In these arrangements we do not have visibility and control of their inventories of purchased parts necessary to build our products or of the progress of our products through their assembly line. Any significant problems that occur at our subcontractors, or their failure to perform at the level we expect, could lead to product shortages or quality assurance problems, either of which would have adverse effects on our operating results. We are exposed to foreign currency risks. Many of our purchases of NAND flash memory from our Toshiba venture and our investments in those ventures are denominated in Japanese yen. Additionally, we expect over time to increase the percentage of our sales denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar. Management of these foreign exchange exposures and the hedging mechanisms used to mitigate those exposures is complicated and we have limited experience in these activities. If we do not successfully manage our foreign exchange exposures, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Terrorist attacks, war, threats of war and government responses thereto may negatively impact our operations, revenues, costs and stock price. Terrorist attacks, U.S. military responses to these attacks, war, threats of war and any corresponding decline in consumer confidence could have a negative impact on consumer retail demand, which is the largest channel for our products. Any of these events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers and suppliers and may affect the availability of materials needed to manufacture our products or the means to transport those materials to manufacturing facilities and finished products to customers. Any of these events could increase volatility in the U.S. and world financial markets, which could harm our stock price and may limit the capital resources available to us and our customers or suppliers or adversely affect consumer confidence. This could harm our business and results of operations. Natural disasters or epidemics in the countries in which we or our suppliers or subcontractors operate could negatively impact our operations. Our operations, including those of our suppliers and subcontractors, are concentrated in Sunnyvale, California, Yokkaichi, Japan, Taichung, Taiwan and Dongguan, Shenzen and Shanghai China. In the past, these areas have been affected by natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis and typhoons, and some areas have been affected by epidemics, such as SARS. If a natural disaster or epidemic were to occur in one or more or these areas, our disaster recovery processes may not provide adequate business continuity. This could harm our business and results of operations. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. In the past, we have been involved in significant disputes regarding our intellectual property rights and those of others, including claims that we may be infringing third parties patents, 32 Table of Contents trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We expect that we may be involved in similar disputes in the future. We cannot assure you that: any of our existing patents will not be invalidated; patents will be issued for any of our pending applications; any claims allowed from existing or pending patents will have sufficient scope or strength; our patents will be issued in the primary countries where our products are sold in order to protect our rights and potential commercial advantage; or any of our products do not infringe on the patents of other companies. In addition, our competitors may be able to design their products around our patents. Several companies have recently entered or announced their intentions to enter the flash memory market, and we believe these companies may require a license from us. Enforcement of our rights may require litigation. If we bring a patent infringement action and are not successful, our competitors would be able to use similar technology to compete with us. Moreover, the defendant in such an action may successfully counter sue us for infringement of their patent or assert a counterclaim that our patents are invalid or unenforceable. If we did not prevail as a defendant in a patent infringement case, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non infringing technology, discontinue the use of specific processes or obtain licenses to the infringing technology. We may be unable to license intellectual property to or from third parties as needed, or renew existing licenses, and we have agreed to indemnify various suppliers and customers for alleged patent infringement, which could expose us to liability for damages, increase our costs or limit or prohibit us from selling products. If we incorporate third party technology into our products or if we are found to infringe others intellectual property, we could be required to license intellectual property from a third party. We may also need to license some of our intellectual property to others in order to enable us to obtain important cross licenses to third party patents. We cannot be certain that licenses will be offered when we need them, or that the terms offered will be acceptable, or that these licenses will help our business. If we do obtain licenses from third parties, we may be required to pay license fees or royalty payments. In addition, if we are unable to obtain a license that is necessary to the manufacture of our products, we could be required to suspend the manufacture of products or stop our product suppliers from using processes that may infringe the rights of third parties. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in redesigning our products or that the necessary licenses will be available under reasonable terms, or that our existing licensees will renew their licenses upon expiration, or that we will be successful in signing new licensees in the future. We have historically agreed to indemnify suppliers and customers for alleged patent infringement. The scope of such indemnity varies, but may, in some instances, include indemnification for damages and expenses, including attorneys fees. We may periodically engage in litigation as a result of these indemnification obligations. Our insurance policies exclude coverage for third party claims for patent infringement. Any future obligation to indemnify our customers or suppliers could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are currently and may in the future be involved in litigation, including litigation regarding our intellectual property rights or those of third parties, which would be costly and would divert the efforts of our key personnel. We are involved in a number of lawsuits, including among others, several cases involving our patents and the patents of third parties. We are the plaintiff in some of these actions and the defendant in other of these actions. Some of the actions seek injunctions against the sale of our products and or substantial monetary damages, which if granted or awarded, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 33 Table of Contents Litigation is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. Factors that could cause litigation results to differ include, but are not limited to, the discovery of previously unknown facts, changes in the law or in the interpretation of laws, and uncertainties associated with the judicial decision making process. If we receive an adverse judgment in any litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages and or cease the manufacture, use and sale of products. Litigation, including intellectual property litigation, can be complex, can extend for a protracted period of time, and can be expensive. Litigation initiated by us could also result in counter claims against us, which could increase the costs associated with the litigation and result in our payment of damages or other judgments against us. In addition, litigation may divert the efforts and attention of some of our key personnel. We have been subject to, and expect to continue to be subject to, claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by us of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time we have sued, and may in the future sue, third parties in order to protect our intellectual property rights. Parties that we have sued and that we may sue for patent infringement may counter sue us for infringing their patents. If we are held to infringe the intellectual property of others, we may need to spend significant resources to develop non infringing technology or obtain licenses from third parties, but we may not be able to develop such technology or acquire such licenses on terms acceptable to us or at all. We may also be required to pay significant damages and or discontinue the use of certain manufacturing or design processes. If we are required to pay significant monetary damages, are enjoined from selling any of our products, develop new technology or are required to make substantial royalty payments, our business would be harmed. Moreover, from time to time we agree to indemnify certain of our suppliers and customers for alleged patent infringement. The scope of such indemnity varies but may in some instances include indemnification for damages and expenses, including attorneys fees. We may from time to time be engaged in litigation as a result of these indemnification obligations. Third party claims for patent infringement are excluded from coverage under our insurance policies. A future obligation to indemnify our customers or suppliers may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For additional information concerning legal proceedings, see Item 3 Legal Proceedings. Because of our international business and operations, we must comply with numerous international laws and regulations, and we are vulnerable to political instability, currency fluctuations and other risks related to international operations. Currently, all of our products are produced overseas in Taiwan, Israel, China, South Korea and Japan. We may, therefore, be affected by the political, economic and military conditions in these countries. Specifically, China does not currently have a comprehensive and highly developed legal system, particularly with respect to the protection of intellectual property rights. This results, among other things, in the prevalence of counterfeit goods in China. The enforcement of existing and future laws and contracts remains uncertain, and the implementation and interpretation of such laws may be inconsistent. Such inconsistency could lead to piracy and degradation of our intellectual property protection. Our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed by the sale of counterfeit products. Our international business activities could also be limited or disrupted by any of the following factors: the need to comply with foreign government regulation; general geopolitical risks such as political and economic instability, potential hostilities and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; natural disasters affecting the countries in which we conduct our business, particularly Japan, such as the earthquakes experienced in Taiwan in 1999, in Japan in 2004, 2003 and previous years, and in China in previous years; 34 Table of Contents reduced sales to our customers or interruption to our manufacturing processes in the Pacific Rim that may arise from regional issues in Asia; imposition of regulatory requirements, tariffs, import and export restrictions and other barriers and restrictions; imposition of additional duties, charges and or fees related to customs entries for our products, which are all manufactured offshore; longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; adverse tax rules and regulations; weak protection of our intellectual property rights; and delays in product shipments due to local customs restrictions. Our products may contain errors or defects, which could result in the rejection of our products, product recalls, damage to our reputation, lost revenues, diverted development resources and increased service costs and warranty claims and litigation. Our products are complex, must meet stringent user requirements, may contain errors or defects and the majority of our products are warrantied for one to five years. These factors could result in the rejection of our products, damage to our reputation, lost revenues, diverted development resources, increased customer service and support costs and warranty claims and litigation. We provide an allowance for warranty and similar costs in connection with sales of our product, but actual warranty and similar costs may be significantly higher than our recorded estimates resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our new products have from time to time been introduced with design and production errors at a rate higher than the error rate in our established products. We must estimate warranty and similar costs for new products without historical information and actual costs may significantly exceed our recorded estimates. Under estimation of our warranty and similar costs would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Tower Semiconductors Financial Situation is Challenging. Tower supplies a significant portion of our controller wafers from its Fab 2 facility and is currently a sole source of supply for some of our controllers. Towers Fab 2 is operational but has not been completed and continued supply of controllers to us on a cost effective basis may be dependent on this completion. Towers completion of the equipment installation, technology transfer and ramp up of production at Fab 2 is dependent upon Tower (a) having sufficient funds to complete the Fab 2 project; (b) meeting the conditions to receive Israeli government grants and tax benefits approved for Fab 2; and (c) obtaining the approval of the Israeli Investment Center to extend the five year investment period under its Fab 2 approved enterprise program. In addition, Tower is required to comply with financial ratios and covenants to avoid being in default under its amended bank credit agreements. If Tower is unable to satisfy these requirements, we will be forced to source our controllers from another supplier and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely effected. Specifically, our ability to supply a number of products would be disrupted until we were able to transition manufacturing and qualify a new foundry with respect to controllers that are currently sole sourced at Tower. We have recognized cumulative losses of approximately $44.0 million as a result of the other than temporary decline in the value of our investment in Tower ordinary shares, $12.2 million as a result of the impairment in value on our prepaid wafer credits and $1.2 million of losses on our warrant to purchase Tower ordinary shares. Of the approximately 9.0 million Tower ordinary shares we own, we have agreed not to sell approximately 6.3 million shares until on or after January 29, 2006. It is possible that we will record further write downs of our investment, which was carried on our consolidated balance sheet at $20.4 million as of January 2, 2005, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 35 Table of Contents Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, volatile, which could result in investors losing all or part of their investments. The market price of our stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. We believe that such fluctuations will continue as a result of many factors, including future announcements concerning us, our competitors or principal customers regarding financial results, technological innovations, new product introductions, governmental regulations, litigation or changes in earnings estimates by analysts. In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations and the market prices of the securities of high technology and semiconductor companies have been especially volatile, often for reasons outside the control of the particular companies. These fluctuations as well as general economic, political and market conditions may have an adverse affect on the market price of our common stock. We may make acquisitions that are dilutive to existing stockholders, result in unanticipated accounting charges or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations, and result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses. We continually evaluate and explore strategic opportunities as they arise, including business combinations, strategic partnerships, collaborations, capital investments and the purchase, licensing or sale of assets. If we issue equity securities in connection with an acquisition, the issuance may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Alternatively, acquisitions made entirely or partially for cash would reduce our cash reserves. Acquisitions may require significant capital infusions, typically entail many risks and could result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies. We may experience delays in the timing and successful integration of acquired technologies and product development through volume production, unanticipated costs and expenditures, changing relationships with customers, suppliers and strategic partners, or contractual, intellectual property or employment issues. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. The acquisition of another company or its products and technologies may also result in our entering into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. These challenges could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. These challenges are magnified as the size of the acquisition increases, and we cannot assure you that we will realize the intended benefits of any acquisition. Furthermore, acquisitions may require large one time charges and can result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges, the amortization of identifiable purchased intangible assets or impairment of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our success depends on key personnel, including our executive officers, the loss of whom could disrupt our business. Our success greatly depends on the continued contributions of our senior management and other key research and development, sales, marketing and operations personnel, including Dr. Eli Harari, our founder, president and chief executive officer. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers and they are free to terminate their employment with us at any time. Our success will also depend on our ability to recruit additional highly skilled personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in hiring or retaining key personnel, or that any of our key personnel will remain employed with us. We expect to raise additional financing, which could be difficult to obtain, and which if not obtained in satisfactory amounts may prevent us from increasing our wafer supply, developing or enhancing our products, taking advantage of future opportunities, growing our business or responding to competitive pressures or unanticipated industry changes, any of which could harm our business. We currently believe that we have sufficient cash resources to fund our operations as well as our investments in Flash Partners and FlashVision for at least the next twelve months, however, we expect to raise additional funds, including funds to meet our obligations with respect to Flash Partners and we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. From time to time, we may decide to raise additional funds through public or private debt, equity or lease financings. If we issue additional equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution and the new equity securities may have rights, 36 Table of Contents preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock or debt securities. If we raise funds through debt or lease financing, we will have to pay interest and may be subject to restrictive covenants, which could harm our business. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, if and when needed, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, fulfill our obligations to Flash Partners, take advantage of future opportunities, grow our business or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated industry changes, any of which could have a negative impact on our business. Anti takeover provisions in our charter documents, stockholder rights plan and in Delaware law could discourage or delay a change in control and, as a result, negatively impact our stockholders. We have taken a number of actions that could have the effect of discouraging a takeover attempt. For example, we have a stockholders rights plan that would cause substantial dilution to a stockholder, and substantially increase the cost paid by a stockholder, who attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors. This could discourage an acquisition of us. In addition, our certificate of incorporation grants our board of directors the authority to fix the rights, preferences and privileges of and issue up to 4,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder action (2,000,000 of which have already been reserved under our stockholder rights plan). Issuing preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult and less attractive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Preferred stock may also have other rights, including economic rights senior to our common stock that could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. In addition, we are subject to the anti takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. This section provides that a corporation may not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three year period following the time that a stockholder became an interested stockholder. This provision could have the effect of delaying or discouraging a change of control of SanDisk. Changes in securities laws and regulations have increased our costs; further, in the event we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal controls, or if these internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, our business could suffer. The Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 that became law in July 2002 required changes in our corporate governance, public disclosure and compliance practices. The number of rules and regulations applicable to us have increased and will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, and have made some activities more difficult, such as stockholder approval of new option plans. In addition, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant costs in connection with compliance with Section 404 of that law regarding internal controls over financial reporting. These laws and regulations and perceived increased risk of liability could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. We cannot estimate the timing or magnitude of additional costs we may incur as a result. In connection with our certification process under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, we have identified and will from time to time identify a number of deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting. We cannot assure you that individually or in the aggregate these deficiencies would not be deemed to be a material weakness. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to implement enhancements on a timely basis in order to prevent a failure of our internal controls or enable us to furnish future unqualified certifications. A material weakness or deficiency in internal control over financial reporting could materially impact our reported financial results and the market price of our stock could significantly decline. Additionally, adverse publicity related to the disclosure of a material weakness or deficiency in internal controls over financial reporting could have a negative impact on our reputation, business and stock price. Any internal control or procedure, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving desired control objectives. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and marketable equity security prices. 37 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk. Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. This is accomplished by investing in widely diversified short term investments, consisting primarily of investment grade securities, substantially all of which either mature within the next twelve months or have characteristics of short term investments. As of January 2, 2005, a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $2.8 million decline (less than 0.5%) in the fair value of our available for sale debt securities. Foreign Currency Risk. A substantial majority of our revenue, expense and capital purchasing activity is transacted in U.S. dollars. However, we do enter into transactions in other currencies, primarily the Japanese yen. Movements in currency exchange rates, especially the Japanese yen, could cause variability in our revenues, expenses or other income (expense), net. See Factors That May Affect Future Results We are exposed to foreign currency risks and Factors That May Affect Future Results Because of our international business and operations, we must comply with numerous international laws and regulations, and we are vulnerable to political instability, currency fluctuations and other risks related to international operations. Market Risk. We also hold available for sale equity securities in equity investments in semiconductor wafer manufacturing companies. As of January 2, 2005, a reduction in prices of 10% of these marketable equity securities would result in a decrease in the fair value of our investments in marketable equity securities of approximately $2.0 million. All of the potential changes noted above are based on sensitivity analysis performed on our financial position at January 2, 2005. Actual results may differ materially. 
 
