ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The information set forth on pages 13 2 to 13 14 of Exhibit 13 hereto is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The Company enters into forward exchange contracts and costless collar contracts to reduce its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies. The total carrying and fair value of open contracts and any risk to the Company as a result of these arrangements is not material to the Companys financial position, liquidity or results of operations. The Company has entered into two interest rate swap agreements for a total notional amount of EUR 300 million. The swap agreements expire in November 2005 and effectively protect the Company against adverse interest rate changes in the EURO bond market and have been designated as a 18 hedge against the Companys anticipated refinancing of its EURO Notes that are due in November 2005. The fair value of the interest rate swap agreements was a liability of approximately $12 million as of June 30, 2005, which has been recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The net payment or receipt under the swap agreements will be recognized as an adjustment to interest expense over the term of the EURO Notes anticipated to be issued in November 2005. A 100 basis point change in the EURO bond rates specified in the interest rate swap agreements would change the fair value of the swap agreements by approximately $24 million. The Companys debt portfolio contains variable rate debt, inherently exposing the Company to interest rate risk. The Companys objective is to maintain a 60/40 mix between fixed rate and variable rate debt thereby limiting its exposure to changes in near term interest rates. A 100 basis point increase in near term interest rates would increase annual interest expense on variable rate debt by approximately $320,511. For further discussion see the Significant Accounting Policies Footnote on page 13 22 of Exhibit 13 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. 
 
