FILE:HIG/HIG-8K-20050524171106.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): May 18, 2005
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(860) 547-5000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
The Hartford 2005 Incentive Stock Plan
On February 17, 2005, the Compensation and Personnel Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (the "Company") approved The Hartford 2005 Incentive Stock Plan (the "2005 Stock Plan"), subject to approval by the Company's shareholders. In accordance with the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange, the shareholders of the Company approved the 2005 Stock Plan on May 18, 2005, at the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "Annual Meeting"). The 2005 Stock Plan provides for the issuance of a maximum of 7,000,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock in connection with the grant of options and other stock-based or stock-denominated awards. A copy of the 2005 Stock Plan is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. Copies of the forms of individual award agreements to be used in connection with the 2005 Stock Plan are filed herewith as Exhibit 10.2 to this Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference.
The 2005 Stock Plan is intended to supersede and replace The Hartford Incentive Stock Plan (the "2000 Stock Plan") and The Hartford Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the "Restricted Stock Plan"). To the extent that any awards under the 2000 Stock Plan or the Restricted Stock Plan are forfeited, terminated, expire unexercised or are settled in cash in lieu of stock, the shares subject to such awards (or the relevant portion thereof) shall be available for awards under the 2005 Stock Plan and such shares shall be added to the total number of shares available under the 2005 Stock Plan.
The following are some key highlights of the 2005 Stock Plan:
Table of Contents
Annual Executive Bonus Program
In order to comply with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code for the years 2005 through 2009, the Company's shareholders approved certain designated material terms related to the Company's annual executive bonus program (the "Bonus Program") on May 18, 2005, at the Annual Meeting. The Bonus Program is intended to provide certain Company executives and key managers with incentive compensation based upon the achievement of pre-established performance goals and individual performance objectives. A summary of the material terms of the Bonus Program is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.3 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The material terms of the Bonus Program will constitute the framework within which the Committee will set specific performance goals for Bonus Program awards for the Company's five most highly compensated executive officers between the dates of the 2005 and 2010 Annual Meetings, and will therefore preserve the Company's ability to obtain tax deductions for such compensation.
2005-2006 Compensation for Non-Employee Directors
On May 18, 2005, at the Annual Meeting, the Company's shareholders elected the slate of eleven directors identified in the Company's 2005 Proxy Statement to the Company's Board of Directors. A summary of the Company's non-employee director compensation pertaining to these directors for the 2005-2006 Board year is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.4 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On May 19, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Company amended the Company's Bylaws to reflect the removal of the Finance Committee from the list of standing committees maintained by the Board of Directors.
A copy of the Bylaws, as amended, is filed herewith as Exhibit 3.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On May 24, 2005, the Company received a subpoena from the Connecticut Attorney General's Office requesting information regarding the Company's having been a party to any finite reinsurance transactions. The Company intends to cooperate fully with this subpoena.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 3.1
 
Table of Contents
 
 
1. STOCKHOLDERS.
All meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be held at such place or places, within or outside the state of Delaware, as may be fixed by the Corporation's Board of Directors (the "Board", and each member thereof a "Director") from time to time or as shall be specified in the respective notices thereof.
1.1 Place of Stockholders' Meetings.
An annual meeting of stockholders shall be held at such place (within or outside the state of Delaware), date and hour as shall be determined by the Board and designated in the notice thereof.
1.2 Day and Time of Annual Meetings of Stockholders.
(a) At each annual meeting, the stockholders shall elect the members of the Board for the succeeding year. At any such annual meeting any business properly brought before the meeting may be transacted.
1.3 Purposes of Annual Meetings.
(b) To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be (i) specified in the notice of the meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board, (ii) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board or (iii) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder. For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given written notice thereof, either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary, not later than 90 days in advance of the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting (or, if the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or after the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting, not later than the later of (a) 90 days prior to the date of such annual meeting or (b) ten days after the first public disclosure, which may include any public filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, of the date of such annual meeting). Any such notice shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend either the Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment, (ii) the name and address of the stockholder proposing such business and of the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made and the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (iii) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to
 
vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business, (iv) any material interest of the stockholder in such business and (v) if the stockholder intends to solicit proxies in support of such stockholder's proposal, a representation to that effect. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, the presiding officer of any annual meeting of stockholders shall have the power and duty to determine whether any business proposed to be brought before an annual meeting was proposed in accordance with the foregoing procedures (including whether the stockholder solicited or did not so solicit, as the case may be, proxies in support of such stockholder's proposal in compliance with such stockholder's representation as required by clause (v) of this Section 1.3(b)) and if any business is not proposed in compliance with this Section 1.3(b), to declare that such defective proposal shall be disregarded.
Except as otherwise expressly required by applicable law, special meetings of the stockholders or of any class or series entitled to vote may be called for any purpose or purposes by the Chairman or by a majority vote of the entire Board, to be held at such place (within or outside the state of Delaware), date and hour as shall be determined by the Board and designated in the notice thereof. Only such business as is specified in the notice of any special meeting of the stockholders shall come before such meeting.
1.4 Special Meetings of Stockholders.
Except as otherwise expressly required or permitted by applicable law, not less than ten days nor more than sixty days before the date of every stockholders' meeting the Secretary shall cause to be delivered to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting written notice stating the place, day and time of the meeting and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. Except as provided in Section 1.6(d) or as otherwise expressly required by applicable law, notice of any adjourned meeting of stockholders need not be given if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. Any notice, if mailed, shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the stockholder at the address for notices to such stockholder as it appears on the records of the Corporation.
1.5 Notice of Meetings of Stockholders.
(a) Unless otherwise expressly required by applicable law, at any meeting of the stockholders, the presence in person or by proxy of stockholders entitled to cast a majority of votes thereat shall constitute a quorum for the entire meeting, notwithstanding the withdrawal of stockholders entitled to cast a sufficient number of votes in person or by proxy to reduce the number of votes represented at the meeting below a quorum. Shares of the Corporation's stock belonging to the Corporation or to another corporation, if a majority of the shares entitled to vote in an election of the directors of such other corporation is held by the Corporation, shall neither be counted for the purpose of determining the presence of a quorum nor entitled to vote at any meeting of the stockholders.
1.6 Quorum of Stockholders.
(b) At any meeting of the stockholders at which a quorum shall be present, a majority of those present in person or by proxy may adjourn the meeting from time to time without notice other than announcement at the meeting. In the absence of a quorum, the officer presiding thereat shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall be
 
present. Notice of any adjourned meeting other than announcement at the meeting shall not be required to be given, except as provided in Section 1.6(d) below and except where expressly required by applicable law.
(c) At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting originally called, but only those stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting as originally noticed shall be entitled to vote at any adjournment or adjournments thereof unless a new record date is fixed by the Board.
(d) If an adjournment is for more than thirty days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given in the manner specified in Section 1.5 to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
The Chairman or, in his or her absence, another officer of the Corporation designated by the Chairman, shall preside at meetings of the stockholders. The Secretary shall act as secretary of the meeting, or in the absence of the Secretary, an Assistant Secretary shall so act, or if neither is present, then the presiding officer may appoint a person to act as secretary of the meeting.
1.7 Chairman and Secretary of Meeting.
(a) Except as otherwise expressly required by applicable law, at every meeting of the stockholders each stockholder shall be entitled to the number of votes specified in the Certificate of Incorporation or any certificate of designations providing for the creation of any series of Preferred Stock, in person or by proxy, for each share of stock standing in his or her name on the books of the Corporation on the date fixed pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.6 of these By-laws as the record date for the determination of the stockholders who shall be entitled to receive notice of and to vote at such meeting.
1.8 Voting by Stockholders.
(b) When a quorum is present at any meeting of the stockholders, all questions shall be decided by the vote of a majority in voting power of the stockholders present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote at such meeting, unless a question is one upon which by express provision of law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, a different vote is required, in which case such express provision shall govern and control the decision of such question.
(c) Except as required by applicable law, the vote at any meeting of stockholders on any question need not be by ballot, unless so directed by the presiding officer of the meeting. On a vote by ballot, each ballot shall be signed by the stockholder voting, or by his or her attorney-in- fact, if authorized by proxy, and shall state the number of shares voted.
Any stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders may vote either in person or by his or her attorney-in-fact or proxy.
1.9 Proxies.
(a) The election of Directors and any other vote by ballot at any meeting of the stockholders shall be supervised by one or more inspectors. Such inspectors may be appointed by the Chairman before or at the meeting. If the Chairman shall not have so appointed such inspectors or if one or both inspectors so appointed shall refuse to serve or shall not be
1.10 Inspectors.
 
present, such appointment shall be made by the officer presiding at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability.
(b) The inspectors shall (i) ascertain the number of shares of the Corporation outstanding and the voting power of each, (ii) determine the shares represented at any meeting of stockholders and the validity of the proxies and ballots, (iii) count all proxies and ballots, (iv) determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the inspectors, and (v) certify their determination of the number of shares represented at the meeting, and their count of all proxies and ballots. The inspectors may appoint or retain other persons or entities to assist the inspectors in the performance of the duties of the inspectors.
(c) If there are three or more inspectors, the act of a majority shall govern. On request of the officer presiding at such meeting, the inspectors shall make a report of any challenge, question or matter determined by them and execute a certificate of any fact found by them. Any report or certificate made by them shall be prima facie evidence of the facts therein stated and of the vote as certified by them, and such report or certificate shall be filed with the minutes of such meeting.
(a) At least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, the Chief Financial Officer shall cause to be prepared and made a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder.
1.11 List of Stockholders.
(b) During ordinary business hours for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting, such list shall be open to examination by any stockholder for any purpose germane to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held.
(c) The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time of the meeting, and it may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.
(d) The stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list required by this Section 1.11 or the books of the Corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.
(a) Proxies and ballots that identify the votes of specific stockholders shall be kept in confidence by the tabulators and the inspectors of election unless (i) there is an opposing solicitation with respect to the election or removal of Directors, (ii) disclosure is required by applicable law, (iii) a stockholder expressly requests or otherwise authorizes disclosure, or (iv) the Corporation concludes in good faith that a bona fide dispute exists as to the authenticity of one or more proxies, ballots or votes, or as to the accuracy of any tabulation of such proxies, ballots or votes.
1.12 Confidential Voting.
 
(b) The tabulators and inspectors of election and any authorized agents or other persons engaged in the receipt, count and tabulation of proxies and ballots shall be advised of this By-law and instructed to comply herewith.
(c) The inspectors of election shall certify, to the best of their knowledge based on due inquiry, that proxies and ballots have been kept in confidence as required by this Section 1.12.
Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special stockholders' meeting and may not be effected by consent in writing by such stockholders.
1.13 Action by Written Consent.
2. DIRECTORS.
The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Corporation except such as are by applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws required to be exercised or performed by the stockholders.
2.1 Powers of Directors.
The number of Directors which shall constitute the whole Board shall be such as from time to time shall be determined by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board, but the number shall not be less than three nor more than twenty-five, provided that the tenure of a Director shall not be affected by any decrease in the number of Directors so made by the Board. Each Director shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier death, retirement, resignation or removal from office in accordance with these By-laws or any applicable law or pursuant to an order of a court. Directors need not be stockholders of the Corporation or citizens of the United States of America.
2.2 Number, Method of Election, Terms of Office of Directors.
Nominations of persons for election as Directors may be made by the Board or by any stockholder entitled to vote for the election of Directors. Any stockholder entitled to vote for the election of Directors may nominate a person or persons for election as Directors only if written notice of such stockholder's intent to make such nomination is given in accordance with the procedures for bringing business before the meeting set forth in Section 1.3(b) of these By-laws, either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary not later than (i) with respect to an election to be held at an annual meeting of stockholders, 90 days in advance of the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting (or, if the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or after the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting, not later than the later of (a) 90 days prior to the date of such annual meeting or (b) ten days after the first public disclosure, which may include any public filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, of the date of such annual meeting) and (ii) with respect to an election to be held at a special meeting of stockholders for the election of Directors, the close of business on the seventh day following the date on which notice of such meeting is first given to stockholders. Each such notice shall set forth: (a) the name and address of the stockholder who intends to make the nomination and of the person or persons to be nominated;
 
(b) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; (c) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the stockholder; (d) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by such stockholder as would have been required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission had each nominee been nominated, or intended to be nominated, by the Board; (e) the consent of each nominee to serve as a Director if so elected and (f) if the stockholder intends to solicit proxies in support of such stockholder's nominee(s), a representation to that effect. The presiding officer of any meeting of stockholders to elect Directors and the Board may refuse to acknowledge the nomination of any person not made in compliance with the foregoing procedure or if the stockholder solicits proxies in support of such stockholder's nominee(s) without such stockholder having made the representation required by clause (f) of the preceding sentence.
At each meeting of the stockholders for the election of Directors at which a quorum is present, the persons receiving the greatest number of votes, up to the number of Directors to be elected, shall be the Directors.
(a) Any Director may resign from office at any time by delivering a written resignation to the Chairman or the Secretary. The resignation will take effect at the time specified therein, or, if no time is specified, at the time of its receipt by the Corporation. The acceptance of a resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective, unless expressly so provided in the resignation.
2.3 Vacancies on Board.
(b) Any vacancy and any newly created Directorship resulting from any increase in the authorized number of Directors may be filled by vote of a majority of the Directors then in office, though less than a quorum, and any Director so chosen shall hold office until the next annual election of Directors by the stockholders and until a successor is duly elected and qualified or until his or her earlier death, retirement, resignation or removal from office in accordance with these By-laws or any applicable law or pursuant to an order of a court. If there are no Directors in office, then an election of Directors may be held in the manner provided by applicable law.
(a) The Board may hold its meetings, both regular and special, either within or outside the state of Delaware, at such places as from time to time may be determined by the Board or as may be designated in the respective notices or waivers of notice thereof.
2.4 Meetings of the Board.
(b) Regular meetings of the Board shall be held at such times and at such places as from time to time shall be determined by the Board.
 
(c) The first meeting of each newly elected Board shall be held as soon as practicable after the annual meeting of the stockholders and shall be for the election of officers and the transaction of such other business as may come before it.
(d) Special meetings of the Board shall be held whenever called by direction of the Chairman or at the request of a majority of the Directors then in office.
(e) Members of the Board or any Committee of the Board may participate in a meeting of the Board or Committee, as the case may be, by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
(f) The Secretary shall give notice to each Director of any meeting of the Board by mailing the same at least two days before the meeting or by telegraphing or delivering the same not later than the day before the meeting. Such notice need not include a statement, of the business to be transacted at, or the purpose of, any such meeting. Any and all business may be transacted at any meeting of the Board. No notice of any adjourned meeting need be given. No notice to or waiver by any Director shall be required with respect to any meeting at which the Director is present.
Except as otherwise expressly required by applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, at any meeting of the Board, the presence of at least one-third of the entire Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business; but if there shall be less than a quorum at any meeting of the Board, a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting from time to time. Unless otherwise provided by applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, the vote of a majority of the Directors present (and not abstaining) at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be necessary for the approval and adoption of any resolution or the approval of any act of the Board.
2.5 Quorum and Action.
The Chairman or, in the absence of the Chairman, a member of the Board selected by the members present, shall preside at meetings of the Board. The Secretary shall act as secretary of the meeting, but in the Secretary's absence the presiding officer may appoint a secretary of the meeting.
2.6 Presiding Officer and Secretary of Meeting.
Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board or of any Committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or Committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or Committee.
2.7 Action by Consent without Meeting.
By resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board, the Board shall elect, from among its members, individuals to serve on the Standing Committees established by this Section 2.8. Each Standing Committee shall be comprised of such number of Directors, not less than three, as shall be elected to such Committee, provided that no officer or employee of the Corporation shall be eligible to serve on the Audit, Compensation and Personnel or Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees. Each Committee shall keep a record of
2.8 Standing Committees.
 
all its proceedings and report the same to the Board. One-third of the members of a Committee, but not less than two, shall constitute a quorum, and the act of a majority of the members of a Committee present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Committee. Each Standing Committee shall meet at the call of its chairman or any two of its members. The chairmen of the various Committees shall preside, when present, at all meetings of such Committees, and shall have such powers and perform such duties as the Board may from time to time prescribe. The Standing Committees of the Board, and functions of each, are as follows:
(a) Compensation and Personnel Committee. The Compensation and Personnel Committee shall exercise the power of oversight of the compensation and benefits of the employees of the Corporation, and shall be charged with evaluating management performance, and establishing executive compensation. This Committee shall have access to its own independent outside compensation counsel. This By-law shall not be amended or repealed except by a majority of the voting power of the stockholders present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote at any meeting at which a quorum is present.
(b) Audit Committee. The Audit Committee shall monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Corporation, shall select the independent auditor, shall assess the independent auditor's qualifications and independence, shall review the performance of the Corporation's independent auditor and internal audit function, and shall oversee the compliance of the Corporation with related legal and regulatory requirements.
(c) Legal and Public Affairs Committee. The Legal and Public Affairs Committee shall review and consider the legal, regulatory, intellectual property and governmental policy matters affecting the Corporation, shall review and approve management policies and programs relating to compliance with legal, regulatory and ethical requirements, and shall review and define the Corporation's social responsibilities, including issues of significance to the Corporation, its stockholders and its employees.
(d) Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall make recommendations as to the organization, size and composition of the Board and the Committees thereof, identify individuals qualified to become members of the Board, propose nominees for election to the Board and the Committees thereof, and consider the qualifications, compensation and retirement of Directors. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee also shall develop and recommend to the Board a set of corporate governance principles.
By resolution passed by a majority of the entire Board, the Board may also appoint from among its members such other Committees, Standing or otherwise, as it may from time to time deem desirable and may delegate to such Committees such powers of the Board as it may consider appropriate, consistent with applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation and these By-laws.
2.9 Other Committees.
Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, Directors shall receive for their services on the Board or any
2.10 Compensation of Directors.
 
Committee thereof such compensation and benefits, including the granting of options, together with expenses, if any, as the Board may from time to time determine. The Directors may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the Board or Committee thereof and/or a stated annual sum as a Director, together with expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board or Committee thereof. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any Director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
3. OFFICERS.
(a) The Board may from time to time elect a Chairman, a President, one or more Vice Presidents (which shall be deemed Vice Presidents under these By-laws regardless of any terms preceding or following the term "Vice President"), a Chief Financial Officer, a Controller, a Treasurer, a Secretary, a General Counsel, one or more Assistant Controllers, one or more Assistant Treasurers, one or more Assistant Secretaries, and one or more Associate or Assistant General Counsels, to serve at the pleasure of the Board or otherwise as shall be specified by the Board at the time of such election and until their successors are elected and qualified or until their earlier death, retirement, resignation or removal from office in accordance with these By-laws or any applicable law or pursuant to an order of a court.
3.1 Officers, Titles, Elections, Terms.
(b) The Board may elect or appoint at any time such other officers or agents with such duties as it may deem necessary or desirable. Such other officers or agents shall serve at the pleasure of the Board or otherwise as shall be specified by the Board at the time of such election or appointment and, in the case of such other officers, until their successors are elected and qualified or until their earlier death, retirement, resignation or removal from office in accordance with these By-laws or any applicable law or pursuant to an order of a court. Each such officer or agent shall have such authority and shall perform such duties as may be provided herein or as the Board may prescribe. The Board may from time to time authorize any officer or agent to appoint and remove any other such officer or agent and to prescribe such person's authority and duties.
(c) No person may be elected or appointed an officer who is not a citizen of the United States of America if such election or appointment is prohibited by applicable law or regulation.
(d) Any vacancy in any office may be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Board. Each officer elected or appointed during the year shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the Board at which officers are regularly elected or appointed and until his or her successor is elected or appointed and qualified or until his or her earlier death, retirement, resignation or removal from office in accordance with these By-laws or any applicable law or pursuant to an order of a court.
(e) Any officer or agent elected or appointed by the Board may be removed at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board.
(f) Any officer may resign from office at any time. Such resignation shall be made in writing and given to the President or the Secretary. Any such resignation shall take effect at the
 
time specified therein, or, if no time is specified, at the time of its receipt by the Corporation. The acceptance of a resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective, unless expressly so provided in the resignation.
Except as may be otherwise provided by applicable law or in Article 6 or Article 7 of these By-laws, the Chairman, the President, any Vice President, the Chief Financial Officer, the General Counsel, the Controller, the Treasurer and the Secretary, or any of them, may (i) execute and deliver in the name of the Corporation, in the name of any Division of the Corporation or in both names any agreement, contract, instrument, power of attorney or other document pertaining to the business or affairs of the Corporation or any Division of the Corporation, including without limitation agreements or contracts with any government or governmental department, agency or instrumentality, and (ii) delegate to any employee or agent the power to execute and deliver any such agreement, contract, instrument, power of attorney or other document.
3.2 General Powers of Officers.
The Chairman shall be the Chief Executive of the Corporation and shall report directly to the Board. Except in such instances as the Board may confer powers in particular transactions upon any other officer, and subject to the control and direction of the Board, the Chairman shall manage and direct the business and affairs of the Corporation and shall communicate to the Board and any Committee thereof reports, proposals and recommendations for their respective consideration or action. He or she may do and perform all acts on behalf of the Corporation and shall preside at meetings of the Board and the stockholders.
3.3 Powers and Duties of the Chairman.
The President shall have such powers and perform such duties as the Board or the Chairman may from time to time prescribe or as may be prescribed in these By-laws.
3.4 Powers and Duties of the President.
Vice Presidents shall have such powers and perform such duties as the Board or the Chairman may from time to time prescribe or as may be prescribed in these By-laws.
3.5 Powers and Duties of Vice Presidents.
The Chief Financial Officer shall have such powers and perform such duties as the Board or the Chairman may from time to time prescribe or as may be prescribed in these By-laws. The Chief Financial Officer shall cause to be prepared and maintained (i) at the office of the Corporation, a stock ledger containing the names and addresses of all stockholders and the number of shares held by each and (ii) the list of stockholders for each meeting of the stockholders as required by Section 1.11 of these By-laws. The Chief Financial Officer shall be responsible for the custody of all stock books and of all unissued stock certificates.
3.6 Powers and Duties of the Chief Financial Officer.
(a) The Controller shall be responsible for the maintenance of adequate accounting records of all assets, liabilities, capital and transactions of the Corporation. The Controller shall prepare and render such balance sheets, income statements, budgets and other financial statements and reports as the Board or the
3.7 Powers and Duties of the Controller and Assistant Controllers.
 
Chairman may require, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed or assigned pursuant to these By-laws and all other acts incident to the position of Controller.
(b) Each Assistant Controller shall perform such duties as from time to time may be assigned by the Controller or by the Board. In the event of the absence, incapacity or inability to act of the Controller, then any Assistant Controller may perform any of the duties and may exercise any of the powers of the Controller.
(a) The Treasurer shall have the care and custody of all the funds and securities of the Corporation except as may be otherwise ordered by the Board, and shall cause such funds (i) to be invested or reinvested from time to time for the benefit of the Corporation as may be designated by the Board, the Chairman, the President, the Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer or (ii) to be deposited to the credit of the Corporation in such banks or depositories as may be designated by the Board, the Chairman, the President, the Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer, and shall cause such securities to be placed in safekeeping in such manner as may be designated by the Board, the Chairman, the President, the Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer.
3.8 Powers and Duties of the Treasurer and Assistant Treasurers.
(b) The Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer or such other person or persons as may be designated for such purpose by the Board, the Chairman, the President, the Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer may endorse in the name and on behalf of the Corporation all instruments for the payment of money, bills of lading, warehouse receipts, insurance policies and other commercial documents requiring such endorsement.
(c) The Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer or such other person or persons as may be designated for such purpose by the Board, the Chairman, the President, the Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer (i) may sign all receipts and vouchers for payments made to the Corporation, (ii) shall render a statement of the cash account of the Corporation to the Board as often as it shall require the same; and (iii) shall enter regularly in books to be kept for that purpose full and accurate account of all moneys received and paid on account of the Corporation and of all securities received and delivered by the Corporation.
(d) The Treasurer shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed or assigned pursuant to these By-laws and all other acts incident to the position of Treasurer. Each Assistant Treasurer shall perform such duties as may from time to time be assigned by the Treasurer or by the Board. In the event of the absence, incapacity or inability to act of the Treasurer, then any Assistant Treasurer may perform any of the duties and may exercise any of the powers of the Treasurer.
 
(a) The Secretary shall keep the minutes of all proceedings of the stockholders, the Board and the Committees of the Board. The Secretary shall attend to the giving and serving of all notices of the Corporation, in accordance with the provisions of these By-laws and as required by applicable law. The Secretary shall be the custodian of the seal of the Corporation. The Secretary shall affix or cause to be affixed the seal of the Corporation to such contracts, instruments and other documents requiring the seal of the Corporation, and when so affixed may attest the same and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed or assigned pursuant to these By-laws and all other acts incident to the position of Secretary.
3.9 Powers and Duties of the Secretary and Assistant Secretaries.
(b) Each Assistant Secretary shall perform such duties as may from time to time be assigned by the Secretary or by the Board. In the event of the absence, incapacity or inability to act of the Secretary, then any Assistant Secretary may perform any of the duties and may exercise any of the powers of the Secretary.
4. INDEMNIFICATION.
(a) Right to Indemnification. The Corporation, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as then in effect, shall indemnify any person who is or was a Director or officer of the Corporation and who is or was involved in any manner (including, without limitation, as a party or a witness) or is threatened to be made so involved in any threatened, pending or completed investigation, claim, action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (including, without limitation, any action, suit or proceeding by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor) (a "Proceeding") by reason of the fact that such person is or was a Director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee, fiduciary or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (including, without limitation, any employee benefit plan) (a "Covered Entity"), against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such Proceeding. Any such former or present Director or officer of the Corporation finally determined to be entitled to indemnification as provided in this Article 4 is hereinafter called an "Indemnitee." Until such final determination is made, such former or present Director or officer shall be a "Potential Indemnitee" for purposes of this Article 4. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 4.1(a), the Corporation shall not indemnify an Indemnitee with respect to any Proceeding commenced by such Indemnitee unless the commencement of such Proceeding by such Indemnitee has been approved by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors (as defined in Section 4.5(d); , , that such approval of a majority of the Disinterested Directors shall not be required with respect to any Proceeding commenced by such Indemnitee after a Change in Control (as defined in Section 4.5(d)) has occurred.
4.1 Right to Indemnification and Effect of Amendment.
provided
however
(b) Effect of Amendments. The right to indemnification conferred in this Article 4 shall be a contract right. Neither the amendment or repeal of, nor the adoption of a provision inconsistent with, any provision of this Article 4 (including, without limitation, this Section 4.1(b)) shall adversely affect the rights of any Director or officer under this Article 4 with respect to any
 
Proceeding arising out of any action or omission occurring prior to such amendment, repeal or adoption of an inconsistent provision, without the written consent of such Director or officer.
The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance to protect itself and any Director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation against any expenses, judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement as specified in Section 4.1(a) or Section 4.6 of this Article 4 or incurred by any Director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation in connection with any Proceeding referred to in such Sections, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as then in effect. The Corporation may enter into contracts with any Director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or any director, officer, employee, fiduciary or agent of any Covered Entity in furtherance of the provisions of this Article 4 and may create a trust fund or use other means (including, without limitation, a letter of credit) to ensure the payment of such amounts as may be necessary to effect indemnification as provided in this Article 4.
4.2 Insurance, Contracts and Funding.
The right of indemnification provided in this Article 4 shall not be exclusive of any other rights to which any Indemnitee or Potential Indemnitee may otherwise be entitled, and the provisions of this Article 4 shall inure to the benefit of the heirs and legal representatives of any Indemnitee or Potential Indemnitee under this Article 4 and shall be applicable to Proceedings commenced or continuing after the adoption of this Article 4, whether arising from acts or omissions occurring before or after such adoption.
4.3 Indemnification; Not Exclusive Right.
Each Potential Indemnitee shall be entitled to receive from time to time advance payment of any expenses as and when actually and reasonably incurred by such Potential Indemnitee in connection with such Proceeding prior to a determination of such Potential Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification pursuant to Section 4.5(a). Each Potential Indemnitee may from time to time submit one or more statements to the Corporation requesting such advance payment, whether prior to or after final disposition of such Proceeding, reasonably evidencing the expenses incurred by such Potential Indemnitee and accompanied by an undertaking by or on behalf of such Potential Indemnitee to repay the amounts advanced if ultimately it should be determined that such Potential Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified against such expenses pursuant to this Article 4. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 4.4, the Corporation shall not advance expenses to a Potential Indemnitee with respect to any Proceeding commenced by such Potential Indemnitee unless the commencement of such Proceeding by such Potential Indemnitee has been approved by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors; , , that such approval of a majority of the Disinterested Directors shall not be required with respect to any Proceeding commenced by such Potential Indemnitee after a Change in Control has occurred.
4.4 Advancement of Expenses.
provided
however
In furtherance, but not in limitation, of the foregoing provisions of this Artic1e 4, the following procedures, presumptions and remedies shall apply with respect to the right to indemnification under this Article 4:
4.5 Indemnification Procedures; Presumptions and Effect of Certain Proceedings; Remedies.
 
(a) Procedures for Determination of Entitlement to Indemnification. (i) To obtain indemnification under this Article 4, a Potential Indemnitee shall submit to the Secretary of the Corporation a written request, including such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the Potential Indemnitee and reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the Potential Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification (the "Supporting Documentation"). The determination of the Potential Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification shall be made not later than 60 days after the later of (A) the receipt by the Corporation of the written request for indemnification together with the Supporting Documentation and (B) the receipt by the Corporation of written notice of final disposition of the Proceeding for which indemnification is sought. The Secretary of the Corporation shall, promptly upon receipt of such a request for indemnification, advise the Board in writing that the Indemnitee has requested indemnification.
(ii) The Potential Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification under this Article 4 shall be determined in one of the following ways: (A) by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors whether or not they constitute a quorum of the Board; (B) by a committee of the Disinterested Directors designated by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors, whether or not they constitute a quorum of the Board; (C) by a written opinion of Independent Counsel as defined in Section 4.5(d)) if (x) a Change in Control shall have occurred and the Potential Indemnitee so requests or (y) there are no Disinterested Directors or a majority of such Disinterested Directors so directs; (D) by the stockholders of the Corporation; or (E) as provided in Section 4.5(b) of this Article 4.
(iii) In the event the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel pursuant to Section 4.5(a)(ii), a majority of the Disinterested Directors (or, if there are no Disinterested Directors, the General Counsel of the Corporation or, if the General Counsel is or was a party to the Proceeding in respect of which indemnification is sought, the highest ranking officer of the Corporation who is not and was not a party to such Proceeding) shall select the Independent Counsel, but only an Independent Counsel to which the Potential Indemnitee does not reasonably object; , , that if a Change in Control shall have occurred, the Potential Indemnitee shall select such Independent Counsel, but only an Independent Counsel to which a majority of the Disinterested Directors does not reasonably object.
provided
however
(b) Presumptions and Effect of Certain Proceedings. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Article 4, if a Change in Control shall have occurred, the Potential Indemnitee shall be presumed to be entitled to indemnification under this Article 4 (with respect to actions or failures to act occurring prior to such Change in Control) upon submission of a request for indemnification together with the Supporting Documentation in accordance with Section 5(a)(i)(b) of this Article 4, and thereafter the Corporation shall have the burden of proof to overcome that presumption in reaching a contrary determination. In any event, if the person or persons empowered under Section 4.5(a) of this Article 4 to determine entitlement to indemnification shall not have been appointed or shall not have made a determination within 60 days after the later of (x) receipt by the Corporation of the written request for indemnification together with the Supporting Documentation and (y) the receipt by the Corporation of written notice of final disposition of the Proceeding for which indemnification is sought, the Potential
 
Indemnitee shall be deemed to be, and shall be, entitled to indemnification. The termination of any Proceeding or of any claim, issue or matter therein, by judgment, order, settlement or conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, adversely affect the right of the Potential Indemnitee to indemnification or create a presumption that the Potential Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner which the Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation or, with respect to any criminal Proceeding, that the Potential Indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.
(c) Remedies. (i) In the event that a determination is made pursuant to Section 4.5(a) of this Article 4 that the Potential Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Article 4, (A) the Potential Indemnitee shall be entitled to seek an adjudication of his or her entitlement to such indemnification either, at the Potential Indemnitee's sole option, in (x) an appropriate court of the state of Delaware or any other court of competent jurisdiction or (y) an arbitration to be conducted by a single arbitrator pursuant to the rules of the American Arbitration Association; (B) any such judicial proceeding or arbitration shall be de novo and the Indemnitee shall not be prejudiced by reason of such adverse determination; and (C) if a Change in Control shall have occurred, in any such judicial proceeding or arbitration, the Corporation shall have the burden of proving that the Potential Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Article 4 (with respect to actions or omissions occurring prior to such Change in Control).
(ii) If a determination shall have been made or deemed to have been made, pursuant to Section 4.5(a) or (b) of this Article 4, that the Potential Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Corporation shall be obligated to pay the amounts constituting such indemnification within five days after such determination has been made or deemed to have been made and shall be conclusively bound by such determination unless (A) the Indemnitee misrepresented or failed to disclose a material fact in making the request for indemnification or in the Supporting Documentation or (B) such indemnification is prohibited by law. In the event that payment of indemnification is not made within five days after a determination of entitlement to indemnification has been made or deemed to have been made pursuant to Section 4.5(a) or (b) of this Article 4, the Indemnitee shall be entitled to seek judicial enforcement of the Corporation's obligation to pay to the Indemnitee such indemnification. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation may bring an action, in an appropriate court in the state of Delaware or any other court of competent jurisdiction, contesting the right of the Indemnitee to receive indemnification hereunder due to the occurrence of an event described in Subclause (A) or (B) of this subsection (each, a "Disqualifying Event"); provided, however, that in any such action the Corporation shall have the burden of proving the occurrence of such Disqualifying Event.
(iii) The Corporation shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 4.5(c) that the procedures and presumptions of this Article 4 are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in any such court or before any such arbitrator that the Corporation is bound by all the provisions of this Article 4.
(iv) In the event that the Indemnitee or Potential Indemnitee, pursuant to this Section 4.5(c), seeks a judicial adjudication of or an award in arbitration to enforce his or her rights under, or to
 
recover damages for breach of, this Article 4, such person shall be entitled to recover from the Corporation, and shall be indemnified by the Corporation against, any expenses actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such judicial adjudication or arbitration. If it shall be determined in such judicial adjudication or arbitration that such person is entitled to receive part but not all of the indemnification or advancement of expenses sought, the expenses incurred by such person in connection with such judicial adjudication or arbitration shall be prorated accordingly.
(d) Definitions. For purposes of this Article 4:
(i) "Change in Control" means a change in control of the Corporation of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) (or any successor provision) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A (or any amendment or successor provision thereto) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Act"), whether or not the Corporation is then subject to such reporting requirement; provided that, without limitation, such a change in control shall be deemed to have occurred if (A) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Act) is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Corporation representing 20% or more of the voting power of all outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in an election of Directors without the prior approval of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board in office immediately prior to such acquisition; (B) the Corporation is a party to any merger or consolidation in which the Corporation is not the continuing or surviving corporation or pursuant to which shares of the Corporation's common stock would be converted into cash, securities or other property, other than a merger of the Corporation in which the holders of the Corporation's common stock immediately prior to the merger have the same proportionate ownership of common stock of the surviving corporation immediately after the merger; (C) there is a sale, lease, exchange or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all, or substantially all, the assets of the Corporation, or liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation; (D) the Corporation is a party to a merger, consolidation, sale of assets or other reorganization, or a proxy contest, as a consequence of which members of the Board in office immediately prior to such transaction or event constitute less than a majority of the Board thereafter; or (E) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board (including for this purpose any new Director whose election or nomination for election by the stockholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Directors then still in office who were Directors at the beginning of such period) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board.
(ii) "Disinterested Director" means a Director who is not or was not a party to the Proceeding in respect of which indemnification is sought by the Indemnitee or Potential Indemnitee.
(iii) "Independent Counsel" means a law firm or a member of a law firm that neither presently is, nor in the past five years has been, retained to represent: (a) the Corporation or the Indemnitee in any matter material to either such party or (b) any other party to the Proceeding giving rise to a claim for indemnification under this Article 4. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Independent Counsel" shall not include any person who, under applicable standards of
 
professional conduct then prevailing under the law of the State of Delaware, would have a conflict of interest in representing either the Corporation or the Indemnitee or Potential Indemnitees in an action to determine the Indemnitee's or Potential Indemnitee's rights under this Article 4.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article 4, the Corporation, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as then in effect, may indemnify any person other than a Director or officer of the Corporation who is or was an employee or agent of the Corporation and who is or was involved in any manner (including, without limitation, as a party or a witness) or is threatened to be made so involved in any threatened, pending or completed Proceeding by reasons of the fact that such person is or was an employee or agent of the Corporation or was or is serving, at the request of the Corporation, as a director, officer, employee, or agent of a Covered Entity against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such Proceeding. The Corporation may also advance expenses incurred by such employee, fiduciary or agent in connection with any such Proceeding, consistent with the provisions of applicable law as then in effect. If made or advanced, such indemnification shall be made and such reasonable expenses shall be advanced pursuant to procedures to be established from time to time by the Board or its designee(s).
4.6 Indemnification of Employees and Agents.
If any of this Article 4 shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (i) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Article 4 (including, without limitation, all portions of any Section of this Article 4 containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that are not themselves invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (ii) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Article 4 (including, without limitation, all portions of any Section of this Article 4 containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that are not themselves invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
4.7 Severability.
5. CAPITAL STOCK.
(a) Every holder of stock in the Corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate certifying the number of shares owned by him or her in the Corporation and designating the class and series of stock to which such shares belong, which certificate shall otherwise be in such form as the Board shall prescribe and as provided in Section 5.1(d). Each such certificate shall be signed by, or in the name of, the Corporation by the Chairman or the President or any Vice President, and by the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary.
5.1 Stock Certificates.
(b) If such certificate is countersigned by a transfer agent other than the Corporation or its employee, or by a registrar other than the Corporation or its employee, the signatures of the officers of the Corporation may be facsimiles, and, if permitted by applicable law, any other signature on the certificate may be a facsimile.
 
(c) In case any officer who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such person were such officer at the date of issue.
(d) Certificates of stock shall be issued in such form not inconsistent with the Certificate of Incorporation. They shall be numbered and registered in the order in which they are issued. No certificate shall be issued until fully paid.
(e) All certificates surrendered to the Corporation shall be cancelled (other than treasury shares) with the date of cancellation and shall be retained by the Chief Financial Officer, together with the powers of attorney to transfer and the assignments of the shares represented by such certificates, for such period of time as such officer shall designate.
A record of the name of the person, firm or corporation and address of such holder of each certificate, the number of shares represented thereby and the date of issue thereof shall be made on the Corporation's books. The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share of stock as the holder in fact thereof, and accordingly shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in any share on the part of any person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as required by applicable law.
5.2 Record Ownership.
Transfers of stock shall be made on the books of the Corporation only by direction of the person named in the certificate or such person's attorney, lawfully constituted in writing, and only upon the surrender of the certificate therefor and a written assignment of the shares evidenced thereby. Whenever any transfer of stock shall be made for collateral security, and not absolutely, it shall be so expressed in the entry of the transfer if, when the certificates are presented to the Corporation for transfer, both the transferor and transferee request the Corporation to do so.
5.3 Transfer of Record Ownership.
Certificates representing shares of the stock of the Corporation shall be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed in such manner and on such terms and conditions as the Board from time to time may authorize in accordance with applicable law.
5.4 Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates.
The Corporation shall maintain one or more transfer offices or agencies where stock of the Corporation shall be transferable. The Corporation shall also maintain one or more registry offices where such stock shall be registered. The Board may make such rules and regulations as it may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of stock certificates in accordance with applicable law.
5.5 Transfer Agent; Registrar; Rules Respecting Certificates.
(a) The Board may fix, in advance, a date as the record date for the purpose of determining the stockholders entitled to notice of, or to vote at, any meeting of the stockholders or any adjournment thereof, which
5.6 Fixing Record Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record.
 
record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board, and which record date shall not be more than sixty days nor less than ten days before the date of a meeting of the stockholders. If no record date is fixed by the Board, the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a stockholders' meeting shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
(b) The Board may fix, in advance, a date as the record date for the purpose of determining the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or the allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or in order to make a determination of the stockholders for the purpose of any other lawful action, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board, and which record date shall not be more than sixty calendar days prior to such action. If no record date is fixed by the Board, the record date for determining the stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board adopts the resolution relating thereto.
6. SECURITIES HELD BY THE CORPORATION.
. Unless the Board shall otherwise order, the Chairman, the President, any Vice President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Controller, the Treasurer or the Secretary shall have full power and authority, on behalf of the Corporation, to attend, act and vote at any meeting of the stockholders of any corporation in which the Corporation may hold stock and at such meeting to exercise any or all rights and powers incident to the ownership of such stock, and to execute on behalf of the Corporation a proxy or proxies empowering another or others to act as aforesaid. The Board from time to time may confer like powers upon any other person or persons.
6.1 Voting
(a) Any of the following officers, to wit: the Chairman, the President, any Vice President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Controller, the Treasurer, any Assistant Controller, any Assistant Treasurer, and each them, hereby is authorized and empowered to transfer, convert, endorse, sell, assign, set over and deliver any and all shares of stock, bonds, debentures, notes, subscription warrants, stock purchase warrants, evidences of indebtedness, or other securities now or hereafter standing in the name of or owned by the Corporation, and to make, execute and deliver any and all written instruments of assignment and transfer necessary or proper to effectuate the authority hereby conferred.
6.2 General Authorization to Transfer Securities Held by the Corporation.
of
(b) Whenever there shall be annexed to any instrument of assignment and transfer executed pursuant to and in accordance with the foregoing Section 6.2(a), a certificate of the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary in office at the date of such certificate setting forth the provisions hereof and stating that they are in full force and effect and setting forth the names of persons who are
 
then officers of the Corporation, all persons to whom such instrument and annexed certificate shall thereafter come shall be entitled, without further inquiry or investigation and regardless of the date of such certificate, to assume and to act in reliance upon the assumption that (i) the shares of stock or other securities named in such instrument were theretofore duly and properly transferred, endorsed, sold, assigned, set over and delivered by the Corporation, and (ii) with respect to such securities, the authority of these provisions of these By-laws and of such officers is still in full force and effect.
7. DEPOSITARIES AND SIGNATORIES.
The Chairman, the President, the Chief Financial Officer and the Treasurer are each authorized to designate depositaries for the funds of the Corporation deposited in its name or that of a Division of the Corporation, or both, and the signatories with respect thereto in each case, and from time to time, to change such depositaries and signatories, with the same force and effect as if each such depositary and the signatories with respect thereto and changes therein had been specifically designated or authorized by the Board; and each depositary designated by the Board or by the Chairman, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, or the Treasurer shall be entitled to rely upon the certificate of the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Corporation or of a Division of the Corporation setting forth the fact of such designation and of the appointment of the officers of the Corporation or of the Division or of both or of other persons who are to be signatories with respect to the withdrawal of funds deposited with such depositary, or from time to time the fact of any change in any depositary or in the signatories with respect thereto.
7.1 Depositaries.
Unless otherwise designated by the Board or by the Chairman, the President, the Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer, all notes, drafts, checks, acceptances, orders for the payment of money and all other negotiable instruments obligating the Corporation for the payment of money shall be (a) signed by the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer and (b) countersigned by the Controller or any Assistant Controller, or (c) either signed or countersigned by the Chairman, the President or any Vice President in lieu of either the officers designated in Clause (a) or the officers designated in Clause (b) of this Section 7.2.
7.2 Signatories.
8. SEAL.
The seal of the Corporation shall be in such form and shall have such content as the Board shall from time to time determine.
9. FISCAL YEAR.
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall end on December 31 in each year or on such other date as the Board shall determine.
 
10. WAIVER OF OR DISPENSING WITH NOTICE.
(a) Whenever any notice of the time, place or purpose of any meeting of the stockholders is required to be given by applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, a written waiver of notice, signed by a stockholder entitled to notice of a stockholders' meeting, whether by telegraph, cable or other form of recorded communication, whether signed before or after the time set for a given meeting, shall be deemed equivalent to notice of such meeting. Attendance of a stockholder in person or by proxy at a stockholders' meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice to such stockholder of such meeting, except when the stockholder attends the meeting for the express purpose of objecting at the beginning of the meeting to the transaction of any business because the meeting was not lawfully called or convened.
(b) Whenever any notice of the time or place of any meeting of the Board or Committee of the Board is required to be given by applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, a written waiver of notice signed by a Director, whether by telegraph, cable or other form of recorded communication, whether signed before or after the time set for a given meeting, shall be deemed equivalent to notice of such meeting. Attendance of a Director at a meeting in person (or by conference telephone or similar communications equipment) shall constitute a waiver of notice to such Director of such meeting.
(c) No notice need be given to any person with whom communication is made unlawful by any law of the United States or any rule, regulation, proclamation or executive order issued under any such law.
11. AMENDMENT OF BY-LAWS.
These By-laws, or any of them, may from time to time be supplemented, amended or repealed, or new By-laws may be adopted, by the Board at any regular or special meeting of the Board, if such supplement, amendment, repeal or adoption is approved by a majority of the entire Board. These By-laws, or any of them, may from time to time be supplemented, amended or repealed, or new By-laws may be adopted, by the stockholders at any regular or special meeting of the stockholders at which a quorum is present, such supplement, amendment, repeal or adoption is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in an election of directors.
12. OFFICES AND AGENT.
(a) Registered Office and Agent. The registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801. The name of the registered agent is The Corporation Trust Company. Such registered agent has a business office identical with such registered office.
 
(b) Other Offices. The Corporation may also have offices at other places, either within or outside the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or as the business of the Corporation may require.

 
Exhibit 10.1
1. Purpose
     The purpose of the Plan is to motivate and reward superior performance on the part of Key Employees of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. ("The Hartford" or "the Company") and its subsidiaries and affiliates and to thereby attract and retain Key Employees of superior ability. In addition, the Plan is intended to further opportunities for stock ownership by such Key Employees and Directors in order to increase their proprietary interest in The Hartford and, as a result, their interest in the success of the Company. Awards will be made, in the discretion of the Committee, to Key Employees (including officers and directors who are also Key Employees) whose responsibilities and decisions directly affect the performance of any Participating Company and its subsidiaries, and also to Directors. Such incentive awards may consist of Options, Rights, Performance Shares, Restricted Stock, Restricted Units or any combination of the foregoing, as the Committee may determine.
2. Definitions
     When used herein, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
     means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
"Act"
     means an award granted to any Key Employee or Director in accordance with the provisions of the Plan in the form of Options, Rights, Performance Shares, Restricted Stock or Restricted Units, or any combination of the foregoing, as applicable.
"Award"
     means the written notice, agreement, or other document evidencing each Award granted under the Plan.
"Award Document"
     means any Person who, directly or indirectly, has the right to vote or dispose of or has "beneficial ownership" (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Act) of any securities of a company, including any such right pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing), : (a) a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of any security as a result of an agreement, arrangement or understanding to vote such security (i) arising solely from a revocable proxy or consent given in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the Act and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder, or (ii) made in connection with, or to otherwise participate in, a proxy or consent solicitation made, or to be made, pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable provisions of the Act and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder, in either case described in clause (i) or (ii) above, whether or not such agreement, arrangement or understanding is also then reportable by such Person on Schedule 13D under the Act (or any comparable or successor report); and (b) a
"Beneficial Owner"
provided that
 
Person engaged in business as an underwriter of securities shall not be deemed to be the Beneficial Owner of any security acquired through such Person's participation in good faith in a firm commitment underwriting until the expiration of forty days after the date of such acquisition.
     means the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated pursuant to the Plan to receive the amount, if any, payable under the Plan upon the death of an Award recipient.
"Beneficiary"
     means the Board of Directors of the Company.
"Board"
     means the occurrence of an event defined in Section 9 of the Plan.
"Change of Control"
     means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
"Code"
     means the Compensation and Personnel Committee of the Board or such other committee as may be designated by the Board to administer the Plan.
"Committee"
     means The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and its successors and assigns.
"Company"
     means a member of the Board who is not an employee of any Participating Company.
"Director"
     means an amount credited with respect to an outstanding Restricted Unit equal to the cash dividends paid or property distributions awarded upon one share of Stock.
"Dividend Equivalents"
     means an Employee as defined in the Plan; provided, however, that except as the Board or the Committee, pursuant to authority delegated by the Board, may otherwise provide on a basis uniformly applicable to all persons similarly situated, "Eligible Employee" shall not include any "Ineligible Person," which includes: (a) a person who (i) holds a position with the Company's "HARTEMP" Program, (ii) is hired to work for a Participating Company through a temporary employment agency, or (iii) is hired to a position with a Participating Company with notice on his or her date of hire that the position will terminate on a certain date; (b) a person who is a leased employee (within the meaning of Code Section 414(n)(2)) of a Participating Company or is otherwise employed by or through a temporary help firm, technical help firm, staffing firm, employee leasing firm, or professional employer organization, regardless of whether such person is an Employee of a Participating Company, and (c) a person who performs services for a Participating Company as an independent contractor or under any other non-employee classification, or who is classified by a Participating Company as, or determined by a Participating Company to be, an independent contractor, regardless of whether such person is characterized or ultimately determined by the Internal Revenue Service or any other Federal, State or local governmental authority or regulatory body to be an employee of a Participating Company or its affiliates for
"Eligible Employee"
 
income or wage tax purposes or for any other purpose.
     Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan to the contrary, if any person is an Ineligible Person, or otherwise does not qualify as an Eligible Employee, or otherwise is ineligible to participate in the Plan, and such person is later required by a court or governmental authority or regulatory body to be classified as a person who is eligible to participate in the Plan, such person shall not be eligible to participate in the Plan, notwithstanding such classification, unless and until designated as an Eligible Employee by the Committee, and if so designated, the participation of such person in the Plan shall be prospective only.
     means any person regularly employed by a Participating Company, but shall not include any person who performs services for a Participating Company as an independent contractor or under any other non-employee classification, or who is classified by a Participating Company as, or determined by a Participating Company to be, an independent contractor.
"Employee"
     unless otherwise indicated in the provisions of this Plan, means, as of any date, the composite closing price for one share of Stock on the New York Stock Exchange or, if no sales of Stock have taken place on such date, the composite closing price on the most recent date on which selling prices were quoted, the determination to be made in the discretion of the Committee.
"Fair Market Value,"
     means the of: (a) the highest composite daily closing price of the Stock during the period beginning on the 60 calendar day prior to the Change of Control and ending on the date of such Change of Control, (b) the highest gross price paid for the Stock during the same period of time, as reported in a report on Schedule 13D filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or (c) the highest gross price paid or to be paid for a share of Stock (whether by way of exchange, conversion, distribution upon merger, liquidation or otherwise) in any of the transactions set forth in Section 9 of the Plan as constituting a Change of Control; provided that in the case of the exercise of any such Right related to an Incentive Stock Option, "Formula Price" shall mean the Fair Market Value of the Stock at the time of such exercise.
"Formula Price"
highest
th
     means a stock option qualified under Section 422 of the Code.
"Incentive Stock Option"
     means an Eligible Employee (including any officer or director who is also an Eligible Employee) whose responsibilities and decisions, in the judgment of the Committee, directly affect the performance of the Company and its subsidiaries.
"Key Employee"
     means an option awarded under Section 5 of the Plan to purchase Stock of the Company, which option may be an Incentive Stock Option or a non-qualified stock option.
"Option"
 
     means the Company or any subsidiary or other affiliate of the Company; provided, however, for Incentive Stock Options only, "Participating Company" means the Company or any corporation which at the time such Option is granted qualifies as a "subsidiary" of the Company under Section 424(f) of the Code.
"Participating Company"
     means a performance share awarded under Section 6 of the Plan.
"Performance Share"
     has the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 3(a)(9) of the Act, as supplemented by Section 13(d)(3) of the Act; provided, however, that Person shall not include: (a) the Company, any subsidiary of the Company or any other Person controlled by the Company, (b) any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under any employee benefit plan of the Company or of any subsidiary of the Company, or (c) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of securities of the Company.
"Person"
     means The Hartford 2005 Incentive Stock Plan, as the same may be amended, administered or interpreted from time to time.
"Plan"
     means the calendar year.
"Plan Year"
     means the occurrence of an event defined in Section 9 of the Plan.
"Potential Change of Control"
     means the following:
"Retirement"
     Solely with respect to a Key Employee with an original hire date with a Participating Company before January 1, 2001 who: (i) is covered in whole or in part under the final average pay formula of the Retirement Plan, or (ii) is not eligible for coverage under the Retirement Plan, "Retirement" means satisfaction of the requirements for early or normal retirement under the final average pay formula of the Retirement Plan (assuming such Key Employee were covered under the final average pay formula of the Retirement Plan), provided such event results in such Key Employee's separation from employment with the Company, or
(a) 
Key Employees Hired Before 2001
.
     (b) . Solely with respect to a Key Employee with an original hire date with a Participating Company on or after January 1, 2001 but before January 1, 2002 who: (i) is covered under the cash balance formula of the Retirement Plan, or (ii) is not eligible for coverage under the Retirement Plan, "Retirement" means satisfaction of the requirements for early or normal retirement under the final average pay formula of the Retirement Plan (assuming such Key Employee were covered under the final average pay formula of the Retirement Plan), provided such event results in such Member's separation from the employment of the Company.
Key Employees Hired During 2001
     means The Hartford Retirement Plan for U.S. Employees, as
"Retirement Plan"
 
amended from time to time.
     means Stock awarded under Section 7 of the Plan subject to such restrictions as the Committee deems appropriate or desirable.
"Restricted Stock"
     means a contractual right awarded under Section 7 of the Plan to receive pursuant to the Plan one share of Stock at the end of a specified period of time, subject to such restrictions as the Committee deems appropriate or desirable.
"Restricted Unit"
     means, in the case of Performance Shares, Restricted Stock or Restricted Units the period established by the Committee pursuant to Section 6 or 7, as applicable, during which shares of Stock or other rights of the recipient of such an Award (or his or her permissive assigns) remain subject to forfeiture pending completion of a period of service or such other criteria or conditions as the Committee shall specify.
"Restriction Period"
     "means a stock appreciation right awarded under Section 5 of the Plan.
Right"
     means the common stock ($.01 par value) of The Hartford.
"Stock"
     means the Company and its subsidiaries, and their successors and assigns.
"The Hartford"
     means the complete and permanent inability of a Key Employee to perform all of his or her duties under the terms of his or her employment with any Participating Company, as determined by the Committee upon the basis of such evidence, including independent medical reports and data, as the Committee deems appropriate or necessary.
"Total Disability"
     means any person or entity to whom or to which a non-qualified stock option has been transferred and assigned in accordance with Section 5(h) of the Plan. Unless the Committee shall expressly permit otherwise, with respect to any Key Employee or Director, only (i) the Key Employee's or Director's child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law or daughter-in-law (including adoptive relationships), (ii) trusts for the exclusive benefit of one or more such persons and/or the Key Employee or Director, and (iii) another entity owned solely by one or more such persons and/or the Key Employee or Director shall be a Transferee.
"Transferee"
3. Shares Subject to the Plan
     Subject to adjustments in accordance with Section 13, the aggregate number of shares of Stock which may be awarded under the Plan shall be subject to a maximum limit applicable to all Awards for the duration of the Plan (the "Maximum Limit"). The Maximum Limit shall be 7,000,000 shares of Stock. The maximum number of shares of Stock with respect to which Awards may be granted under the Plan in the form of Incentive Stock
 
Options shall be 7,000,000.
     Subject to adjustments in accordance with Section 13, and subject to the Maximum Limit set forth above on the number of Shares that may be awarded in the aggregate under the Plan, the maximum number of shares that may be awarded to Directors under the Plan shall be 500,000 shares of Stock. Additionally, a Director may not be granted an Award covering more than 25,000 shares of Stock in any Plan Year, except that this annual limit on Director Awards shall be 50,000 shares of Stock for any Director serving as Chairman of the Board and provided, however, that in the Plan Year in which an individual is first appointed or elected as a Director, the limit applicable to such Director shall be increased by 25,000 shares of Stock.
     In addition to the foregoing, in any Plan Year: (a) no individual Key Employee may receive an Award of Options or Rights for more than 1,000,000 shares, and (b) no individual Key Employee may receive an Award of Restricted Stock, Restricted Units or Performance Shares for more than 200,000 shares.
     Except with respect to shares of Stock equivalent to a maximum of five percent of the Maximum Limit authorized above in this Section 3, and except as may be provided in Section 9 regarding a Change of Control, any Full Value Awards which vest on the basis of a Key Employee's continued employment with the Company shall not provide for vesting, other than vesting upon death, Total Disability or Retirement, or such other circumstances, such as a substantial reduction in force or a divestiture or sale of a business or unit, that the Committee finds than a waiver of the applicable restrictions (or any portion thereof) would be in the best interests of the Company, which is more rapid than pro rata annual vesting over a three year period, and any Full Value Awards which vest upon the attainment of performance objectives shall provide for a performance period of at least twelve months. For purposes of this paragraph, a "Full Value Award" is an Award other than in the form of an Option or Right. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Awards of Restricted Units attributable to a Key Employee's voluntary deferral of an amount which would otherwise have been payable to the Key Employee in cash shall not be subject to the restrictions set forth in this paragraph and shall not be counted against the five percent limit referenced above.
     Subject to the above limitations, shares of Stock to be issued under the Plan may be made available from the authorized but unissued shares, or shares held by the Company in treasury or from shares purchased in the open market.
     For the purpose of computing the total number of shares of Stock available for Awards under the Plan, there shall be counted against the foregoing limitations the number of shares of Stock subject to issuance upon exercise or settlement of Awards and the number of shares of Stock which equals the value of Performance Share Awards based upon their target payout, in each case determined as at the dates on which such Awards are granted. If any Awards under the Plan are forfeited, terminated, expire unexercised, or are settled in cash in lieu of Stock, the shares of Stock which were theretofore subject to such Awards shall again be available for Awards under the Plan to the extent of such forfeiture, termination,
 
expiration, or cash settlement of such Awards. If any award under the prior The Hartford Incentive Stock Plan (as approved by the Company's shareholders in 2000), or under The Hartford Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, is forfeited, terminated or expires unexercised, or is settled in cash in lieu of Stock, the shares of Stock subject to such award (or the relevant portion thereof) shall be available for Awards under the Plan and such shares shall be added to the Maximum Limit.
4. Grant of Awards and Award Documents
     (a) Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall: (i) determine and designate from time to time those Key Employees and Directors or groups of Key Employees and Directors to whom Awards are to be granted, (ii) determine the form or forms of Award to be granted to any Key Employee and any Director; (iii) determine the amount or number of shares of Stock subject to each Award; and (iv) determine the terms and conditions of each Award.
     (b) Each Award granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by a written Award Document. Such Award Document shall be subject to and incorporate the express terms and conditions of each Award, if any, required under the Plan or required by the Committee.
5. Options and Rights
     (a) With respect to Options and Rights, the Committee shall: (i) authorize the granting of Incentive Stock Options, non-qualified stock options, or a combination of Incentive Stock Options and non-qualified stock options; (ii) authorize the granting of Rights which may or may not be granted in connection with all or part of any Option granted under this Plan; (iii) determine the number of shares of Stock subject to each Option or the number of shares of Stock that shall be used to determine the value of a Right; and (iv) determine the time or times when and the manner in which each Option or Right shall be exercisable and the duration of the exercise period.
     (b) Any option issued hereunder which is intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option shall be subject to such limitations or requirements as may be necessary for the purposes of Section 422 of the Code or any regulations and rulings thereunder to the extent and in such form as determined by the Committee in its discretion.
     (c) The exercise period for an Option and a Right shall not exceed ten years from the date of grant.
     (d) The Option price per share shall be determined by the Committee at the time any Option is granted and shall be not less than the Fair Market Value of one share of Stock on the date the Option is granted. The grant price related to each Right shall be determined by the Committee at the time any Right is granted; however, such grant price shall not be less
 
than the Fair Market Value of one share of Stock on the date the Right is granted.
     (e) No part of any Option or Right may be exercised until the Key Employee who has been granted the Award shall have remained in the employ of a Participating Company for such period after the date of grant as the Committee may specify, if any, and the Committee may further require exercisability in installments.
     (f) Except as provided in Section 9, the purchase price of the shares of Stock as to which an Option is exercised shall be paid to the Company at the time of exercise either in cash, Stock already owned by the optionee, or a combination of the foregoing having a total Fair Market Value equal to the purchase price. The Committee shall determine acceptable methods for tendering Stock as payment upon exercise of an Option and may impose such limitations and prohibitions on the use of Stock for such purpose as it deems appropriate.
     (g) Unless otherwise set forth in the Award Document, in case of a Key Employee's termination of employment with all Participating Companies, the following provisions shall apply:
          (i) If a Key Employee who has been granted an Option or Right shall die before such Option or Right has expired, his or her Option or Right may be exercised in full by: (A) the person or persons to whom the Key Employee's rights under the Option or Right pass upon his or her death pursuant to the terms of the Plan, or if no such person has such right, by his or her executors or administrators; (B) his or her Transferee(s) (with respect to non-qualified Options or Rights); or (C) his or her Beneficiary designated pursuant to the Plan, at any time, or from time to time, within five years after the date of the Key Employee's death or within such other period, and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may specify, but not later than the expiration date specified in Section 5(c) above. Any such Options or Rights not fully exercisable immediately prior to such optionee's death shall become fully exercisable upon such death unless the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall otherwise determine.
          (ii) If the Key Employee's employment with all Participating Companies terminates: (A) because of his or her Total Disability, or (B) solely in the case of a Key Employee with an original hire date with a Participating Company before January 1, 2002, because of his or her voluntary termination of employment due to Retirement; he or she may exercise his or her Options or Rights in full at any time, or from time to time, within five years after the date of the termination of his or her employment, or within such other period, and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may specify, but not later than the expiration date specified in Section 5(c) above. Any such Options or Rights not fully exercisable immediately prior to such optionee's Total Disability or Retirement shall become fully exercisable upon such Total Disability or Retirement unless the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall otherwise determine at the time of grant.
 
          (iii) If the Key Employee shall be terminated for cause as determined by the Committee, all of such Key Employee's Options or Rights outstanding at the date of such termination (whether or not then exercisable) shall be canceled without further action by the Key Employee, the Committee or the Company coincident with the effective date of such termination.
          (iv) Except as provided in Section 5(g)(ii) and Section 9, if a Key Employee's employment terminates for any other reason (including a voluntary resignation), he or she may exercise his or her Options or Rights, to the extent that he or she shall have been entitled to do so at the date of the termination of his or her employment, at any time, or from time to time, within four months after the date of the termination of his or her employment, or within such other period, and subject to such terms and conditions, as the Committee may specify, but not later than the expiration date specified in Section 5(c) above. All Options and Rights held by such Key Employee or any of his or her assigns that are not eligible to be exercised upon the date of such termination shall be canceled without further action by the Key Employee, the Committee or the Company coincident with the effective date of such termination.
          (v) Any Options or Rights not exercised within the period established in accordance with this Section 5(g) shall be canceled without further action by the Key Employee, the Committee or the Company on the date following the last date on which such Option or Right may have been exercised in accordance with this Section 5(g).
     (h) Except as provided in this Section 5(h) or required by applicable law, no Option or Right granted under the Plan shall be transferable other than upon the death of the recipient of such Option or Right. During the lifetime of the optionee, an Option or Right shall be exercisable only by the Key Employee or Director to whom the Option or Right is granted. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all or a portion of a non-qualified Option or Right may be transferred and assigned by such persons designated by the Committee, to such persons or groups of persons designated as permissible Transferees by the Committee, and upon such terms and conditions as the Committee may from time to time authorize and determine in its sole discretion. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, no Award under the Plan may be transferred for value (as defined in the General Instructions to Form S-8 with respect to the registration, pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, of employee benefit plan securities and/or interests).
     (i) Except as provided in Section 9 , if a Director's service on the Board terminates for any reason, including without limitation, termination due to death, disability or retirement, such Director (or Beneficiary, in the event of death) may exercise any Option or Right granted to him or her only to the extent determined by the Committee as set forth in such Director's Award Document and/or any administrative rules or other terms and conditions adopted by the Committee from time to time applicable to such Option or Right granted to such Director.
     (j) With respect to an Incentive Stock Option, the Committee shall specify such
 
terms and provisions as the Committee may determine to be necessary or desirable in order to qualify such Option as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
     (k) With respect to the exercisability and settlement of Rights:
          (i) Except as expressly provided below, upon exercise of a Right, a Key Employee or Director shall be entitled, subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may specify, to receive all or a portion of the excess of (A) the Fair Market Value of a specified number of shares of Stock at the time of exercise, as determined by the Committee, over (B) a specified amount which shall not, subject to Section 5(d), be less than the Fair Market Value of such specified number of shares of Stock at the time the Right is granted. Payment of any such excess shall be made as the Committee shall specify in cash, the issuance or transfer to the Key Employee or Director of whole shares of Stock with a Fair Market Value at such time equal to any excess, or a combination of cash and shares of Stock with a combined Fair Market Value at such time equal to any such excess, all as determined by the Committee. The Company will not issue a fractional share of Stock and, if a fractional share would otherwise be issuable, the Company shall pay cash equal to the Fair Market Value of the fractional share of Stock at such time.
          (ii) Notwithstanding Section 5(k)(i), the Committee may specify at grant that payment of any excess referenced in the first sentence of Section 5(k)(i) shall not be paid until a specified date or, if earlier, upon the termination of the Key Employee's employment, the cessation of the Director's service on the Board or a Change of Control. To the extent permissible without adverse tax consequences for the Key Employee or Director, the Committee may permit the Key Employee or Director to elect when such payment is made. Amounts, if any, deferred pursuant to this Section 5(k)(ii) shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine, including the manner in which any deemed earnings on such deferred amounts shall be determined.
          (iii) In the event of the exercise of such Right, the Company's obligation in respect of any related Option or such portion thereof will be discharged by payment of the Right so exercised.
6.  Performance Shares
     (a) Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall: (i) determine and designate from time to time those Key Employees and Directors or groups of Key Employees and Directors to whom Awards of Performance Shares are to be made, (ii) determine the performance period (the "Performance Period") and performance objectives (the "Performance Objectives") applicable to such Awards, (iii) determine whether to impose a Restriction Period following the completion of the Performance Period applicable to any Key Employees and Directors or groups of Key Employees and Directors, (iv) determine the form of settlement of a Performance Share, and (v) generally determine the terms and conditions
 
of each such Award. At any date, each Performance Share shall have a value equal to the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock at such date; provided that the Committee may limit the aggregate amount payable upon the settlement of any Award.
     (b) The Committee shall determine a Performance Period of not less than one nor more than five years. Performance Periods may overlap and Key Employees or Directors may participate simultaneously with respect to Performance Shares for which different Performance Periods are prescribed.
     (c) The Committee may impose a Restriction Period of any duration with respect to any shares of stock issued in payment of a Performance Share Award, which shall apply immediately following the completion of the Performance Period to which it relates.
     (d) The Committee shall determine the Performance Objectives of Awards of Performance Shares. Performance Objectives may vary from Key Employee to Key Employee, Director to Director and between groups of Key Employees and Directors, and shall be based upon one or more of the following objective criteria, as the Committee deems appropriate: (A) earnings per share, (B) return on equity, (C) cash flow, (D) return on total capital, (E) return on assets, (F) economic value added, (G) increase in surplus, (H) reductions in operating expenses, (I) increases in operating margins, (J) earnings before income taxes and depreciation, (K) total shareholder return, (L) return on invested capital, (M) cost reductions and savings, (N) earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"), (O) pre-tax operating income, (P) net income, (Q) after-tax operating income, and/or (R) productivity improvements. The objective criteria shall be (i) determined solely by reference to any one or more of the above performance factors of the Company (or the performance factors of any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company or any division or unit thereof), or (ii) based on any one or more of the above performance factors of the Company (or the performance factors of any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company or any division or unit thereof), as compared with the performance factors of other companies or entities, or (iii) based on a Key Employee's attainment of personal objectives with respect to any one or more of the performance factors of the Company (or the performance factors of any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company or any division or unit thereof), or with respect to any one or more of the following: growth and profitability, customer satisfaction, leadership effectiveness, business development, negotiating transactions and sales or developing long term business goals. If during the course of a Performance Period there shall occur significant events which the Committee expects to have a substantial effect on the applicable Performance Objectives during such period, the Committee may revise such Performance Objectives.
     (e) At the beginning of a Performance Period, the Committee shall determine for each Key Employee or group of Key Employees the number of Performance Shares or the percentage of Performance Shares which shall be paid to the Key Employee or member of the group of Key Employees following completion of the Performance Period or if later, following any applicable Restriction Period, if the applicable Performance Objectives are met in whole or in part.
 
     (f) If a Key Employee terminates service with all Participating Companies during a Performance Period or any applicable Restriction Period: (i) because of death, (ii) because of Total Disability, (iii) solely in the case of a Key Employee with an original hire date with a Participating Company before January 1, 2002, because of his or her voluntary termination of employment due to Retirement, or (iv) under other circumstances where the Committee in its sole discretion finds that a waiver would be in the best interests of the Company; that Key Employee may, as determined by the Committee, be entitled to payment in settlement of such Performance Shares at the end of the Performance Period or if later, at the end of any applicable Restriction Period, based upon the extent to which the Performance Objectives were satisfied at the end of such Performance Period and prorated for the portion of the Performance Period together with any applicable Restriction Period during which the Key Employee was actively employed by any Participating Company; provided, however, the Committee may provide for an earlier payment in settlement of such Performance Shares in such amount and under such terms and conditions as the Committee deems appropriate or desirable. If a Key Employee terminates service with all Participating Companies during a Performance Period or any applicable Restriction Period for any other reason, then such Key Employee shall not be entitled to any Award with respect to that Performance Period and shall forfeit any shares of Stock subject to a Restriction Period unless the Committee shall otherwise determine.
     (g) Except as provided in Section 9, if a Director's service on the Board terminates for any reason, including, without limitation, termination due to death, disability or retirement, prior to the lapse of any applicable Restriction Period, such Director (or Beneficiary, in the event of death) shall be or become vested in, or entitled to payment in respect of, such Award to the extent determined by the Committee as set forth in such Director's Award Document and/or any administrative rules or other terms and conditions adopted by the Committee from time to time applicable to such Award granted to such Director.
     (h) Each Award of a Performance Share shall be paid in whole shares of Stock, or cash, or a combination of Stock and cash either as a lump sum payment or in annual installments, all as the Committee shall determine, with payment to commence as soon as practicable after the end of the relevant Performance Period or if later, at the end of any applicable Restriction Period.
     (i) Except as otherwise required by applicable law, no Performance Share granted under the Plan shall be transferable other than on account of death in accordance with the terms of the Plan.
     (j) Notwithstanding anything else contained in the Plan to the contrary, unless the Committee otherwise determines at the time of grant, any Award of Performance Shares, to an officer of the Company or a Subsidiary who is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Act, shall become vested, if at all, upon the determination by the Committee that Performance Objectives established by the Committee have been attained, in
 
whole or in part, to the extent required to ensure that such Award is deductible by the Company or such Subsidiary pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Code. To the extent such Award is so intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m), notwithstanding anything else in the Plan to the contrary, the Committee shall not have any discretionary power or authority to increase the amount payable with respect to such Award after it has been granted, and shall be deemed not to have and may not exercise with respect to such Award any authority or discretion afforded to it under the Plan that would cause the Award to fail to so qualify.
7. Restricted Stock and Restricted Units
     (a) Except as provided in Section 9, Restricted Stock and Restricted Units shall be subject to a Restriction Period specified by the Committee. The Committee may provide for the lapse of a Restriction Period in installments where deemed appropriate, and it may also require the achievement of predetermined performance objectives in order for such Restriction Period to lapse. Except as otherwise provided in the Plan or as specified by the Committee, certificates for shares related to an Award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units shall be delivered to a Key Employee or Director as soon as administratively practicable following the end of the applicable Restriction Period.
     (b) Except when the Committee determines otherwise pursuant to Section 7(d), if a Key Employee terminates employment with all Participating Companies for any reason before the expiration of the Restriction Period, all shares of Restricted Stock and all rights with respect to any Award of Restricted Units still subject to restriction shall be forfeited by the Key Employee and shall be reacquired by the Company.
     (c) Except as otherwise provided in this Section 7 or required by applicable law, no shares of Restricted Stock received by a Key Employee or Director and no rights conveyed by an Award of Restricted Units shall be sold, exchanged, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of during the Restriction Period.
     (d) In the event that a Key Employee's employment terminates due to (i) death, (ii) Total Disability, (iii) solely in the case of a Key Employee with an original hire date with a Participating Company before January 1, 2002, a voluntary termination of employment due to Retirement, or (iv) such other circumstances, such as a substantial reduction in force or a divestiture or sale of a business or unit, that the Committee finds that a waiver of the applicable restrictions (or any portion thereof) would be in the best interests of the Company, such Key Employee (or Beneficiary, in the event of death) shall be or become vested in, or entitled to payment in respect of, Restricted Stock or Restricted Units then held by such Key Employee to the extent determined by the Committee as set forth in such Key Employee's Award Documents and/or any administrative rules or other terms and conditions adopted by the Committee from time to time applicable to such Restricted Stock or Restricted Units granted to such Key Employee. With respect to any Award of Restricted Units, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, any amount payable to the Key
 
Employee or his or her Beneficiary in accordance with this Section 7(d) shall be paid promptly following the end of the applicable Restriction Period determined without regard to this paragraph.
     (e) Except as provided in Section 9, if a Director's service on the Board terminates for any reason, including without limitation termination due to death, disability or retirement, prior to the lapse of any applicable Restriction Period, such Director (or Beneficiary, in the event of death) shall be or become vested in, or entitled to payment in respect of, such Award to the extent determined by the Committee as set forth in such Director's Award Document and/or any administrative rules or other terms and conditions adopted by the Committee from time to time applicable to such Award granted to such Director.
     (f) The Committee may require, on such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate or desirable, that the certificates for Stock delivered under the Plan in respect of any grant of Restricted Stock may be held in custody by a bank or other institution, or that the Company may itself hold such shares in custody until the Restriction Period expires or until restrictions thereon otherwise lapse, or later as provided in Section 14 hereof. The Committee may require, as a condition of any Award of Restricted Stock that the Key Employee shall have delivered a stock power endorsed in blank relating to the Restricted Stock.
     (g) At the discretion of the Committee, the Restricted Unit account of a Key Employee or Director may be credited with Dividend Equivalents during the Restricted Period which shall be subject to the same terms and conditions (and become payable and be paid) as the Restricted Units to which they relate. Unless the Committee shall otherwise determine at or after grant, all Dividend Equivalents payable in respect of Restricted Units shall be deemed reinvested in that number of Restricted Units determined based on the Fair Market Value on the date the corresponding dividend on the Stock is payable to stockholders.
     (h) Nothing in this Section 7 shall preclude a Key Employee from exchanging any shares of Restricted Stock subject to the restrictions contained herein for any other shares of Stock that are similarly restricted.
     (i) Subject to Section 7(f) and Section 8, a stock certificate shall be issued in the name of each Key Employee or Director awarded Restricted Stock under the Plan. Such certificate shall be registered in the name of the Key Employee or Director, and shall bear an appropriate legend reciting the terms, conditions and restrictions, if any, applicable to such Award and shall be subject to appropriate stop-transfer orders. Upon the lapse of the Restricted Period with respect to Restricted Stock, such shares shall no longer be subject to the restrictions imposed under this Section 7 and the Company shall issue or have issued new share certificates, or otherwise render available the shares represented by the certificate, without the legend referred to herein in exchange for those certificates previously issued. Upon the lapse of the Restricted Period with respect to any Restricted Units, the Company shall deliver (or otherwise render available) to the Key Employee or Director (or, if
 
applicable, his or her beneficiary or permitted assigns, one share of Stock for each Restricted Unit as to which restrictions have lapsed (including any such Restricted Units related to any Dividend Equivalents credited with respect to such Restricted Units). The Committee may, in its sole discretion, elect to pay cash or part cash and part Stock in lieu of delivering only Stock for Restricted Units. If a cash payment is made in lieu of delivering Stock, the amount of such cash payment for each share of Stock to which a Key Employee or Director is entitled shall be equal to the Fair Market Value on the date on which the Restricted Period lapsed with respect to the related Restricted Unit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, to the extent possible without adverse tax consequences to the Key Employee or Director, require or permit the deferral of payment in respect of Restricted Units to a date or dates (including, without limitation, the date the Key Employee's employment or a Director's services on the Board terminates) subsequent to the date that the Restriction Period lapses on such terms and conditions (including, without limitation, the manner in which the amounts payable shall be deemed invested during the period of deferral) as it shall determine from time to time.
     (j) Except for the restrictions set forth herein and unless otherwise determined by the Committee, a Key Employee or Director shall have all the rights of a shareholder with respect to shares of Restricted Stock, including but not limited to, the right to vote and the right to receive dividends. A Key Employee or Director shall not have any right, in respect of Restricted Units awarded pursuant to the Plan, to vote on any matter submitted to the Company's stockholders until such time, if at all, as the shares of Stock attributable to such Restricted Units have been issued.
     (k) In addition, the Committee may permit Key Employees and Directors or any group of Key Employees and Directors to elect to receive Restricted Units in exchange for or in lieu of other compensation (including salaries, annual bonuses, annual retainer and meeting fees) that would otherwise have been payable to such Key Employees and Directors in cash. The Committee shall establish the terms and conditions of any such Restricted Units, including the Restriction Period applicable thereto, and the date on which Stock shall be issued in respect thereof. The Committee shall establish the terms and conditions applicable to any election by a Key Employee or Director to receive Restricted Units (including the time at which any such election shall be made).
     (l) Notwithstanding anything else contained in the Plan to the contrary, the Committee may determine at the time of grant that any Award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units to a Key Employee or Director shall become vested, if at all, only upon the determination by the Committee that Performance Objectives established by the Committee have been attained, in whole or in part. In such case, the Performance Objectives determined by the Committee may vary from Key Employee to Key Employee, Director to Director and between groups of Key Employees and Directors, and shall be established by the Committee and determined by applying the standards (and selecting from the criteria) applicable to Performance Shares under Section 6(d). If there shall occur significant events which the Committee expects to have a substantial effect on the applicable Performance Objectives, the Committee may revise such Performance Objectives. Unless the Committee otherwise
 
determines at the time of grant, any Award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units that is subject to performance-based vesting in accordance with this Section 7(l), to an officer of the Company or a Subsidiary who is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Act, shall be subject to the same requirements and restrictions as apply to a Performance Share Award under Section 6(j).
8. Issuance of Stock
     (a) The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any shares of Stock prior to: (i) the listing of such shares on any stock exchange on which the Stock may then be listed, (ii) the completion of any registration or qualification of such shares under any federal or state law, or any ruling or regulation of any government body which the Company shall, in its sole discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable, and (iii) the satisfaction of any tax withholding obligations as provided in Section 14 hereof.
     (b) All shares of Stock delivered under the Plan shall also be subject to such stop-transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the rules, regulations, and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange upon which the Stock is then listed and any applicable federal or state securities laws, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be placed on any such certificates to make appropriate reference to such restrictions. In making such determination, the Committee may rely upon an opinion of counsel for the Company.
     (c) Except to the extent such shares are subject to forfeiture during any applicable Restriction Period, each Key Employee or Director who receives Stock in settlement of or as part of an Award, shall have all of the rights of a shareholder with respect to such shares, including the right to vote the shares and receive dividends and other distributions. No Key Employee or Director awarded an Option, a Right, a Restricted Unit or a Performance Share shall have any right as a shareholder with respect to any shares of Stock covered by his or her Option, Right, Restricted Unit or Performance Share prior to the date of issuance to him or her of such shares.
9. Change of Control
     (a) For purposes of this Plan, a Change of Control shall occur if:
          (i) a report on Schedule 13D shall be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13(d) of the Act disclosing that any Person, other than the Company or a subsidiary of the Company or any employee benefit plan sponsored by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company is the Beneficial Owner of twenty percent or more of the outstanding stock of the Company entitled to vote in the election of directors of the Company;
 
          (ii) any Person other than the Company or a subsidiary of the Company or any employee benefit plan sponsored by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company shall purchase shares pursuant to a tender offer or exchange offer to acquire any stock of the Company (or securities convertible into stock) for cash, securities or any other consideration, provided that after consummation of the offer, the Person in question is the Beneficial Owner of fifteen percent or more of the outstanding stock of the Company entitled to vote in the election of directors of the Company (calculated as provided in paragraph (d) of Rule 13d-3 under the Act in the case of rights to acquire stock);
          (iii) any merger, consolidation, recapitalization or reorganization of the Company approved by the stockholders of the Company shall be consummated, other than any such transaction immediately following which the persons who were the Beneficial Owners of the outstanding securities of the Company entitled to vote in the election of directors of the Company immediately prior to such transaction are the Beneficial Owners of at least 55% of the total voting power represented by the securities of the entity surviving such transaction entitled to vote in the election of directors of such entity (or the ultimate parent of such entity) in substantially the same relative proportions as their ownership of the securities of the Company entitled to vote in the election of directors of the Company immediately prior to such transaction; provided that, such continuity of ownership (and preservation of relative voting power) shall be deemed to be satisfied if the failure to meet such threshold (or to preserve such relative voting power) is due solely to the acquisition of voting securities by an employee benefit plan of the Company, such surviving entity or any subsidiary of such surviving entity;
          (iv) any sale, lease, exchange or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all or substantially all the assets of the Company approved by the stockholders of the Company shall be consummated; or
          (v) within any 24 month period, the persons who were directors of the Company immediately before the beginning of such period (the "Incumbent Directors") shall cease (for any reason other than death) to constitute at least a majority of the Board or the board of directors of any successor to the Company, provided that any director who was not a director at the beginning of such period shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director if such director (A) was elected to the Board by, or on the recommendation of or with the approval of, at least two-thirds of the directors who then qualified as Incumbent Directors either actually or by prior operation of this clause (v), and (B) was not designated by a Person who has entered into an agreement with the Company to effect a transaction described in Section 9(a)(iii) or Section 9(a)(iv) of the Plan.
     (b) For purposes of this Plan, a Potential Change of Control shall occur if:
          (i) A Person shall commence a tender offer, which if successfully consummated, would result in such Person being the Beneficial Owner of at least 15% of the stock of the Company entitled to vote in the election of directors of the Company;
 
          (ii) The Company enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would constitute a Change of Control;
          (iii) Solicitation of proxies for the election of directors of the Company by anyone other than the Company, which, if such directors were elected, would result in the occurrence of a Change of Control as described in Section 9(a)(v); or
          (iv) Any other event shall occur which is deemed to be a Potential Change of Control by the Board, the Committee, or any other appropriate committee of the Board in its sole discretion.
     (c) Notwithstanding any provision in this Plan to the contrary, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control:
          (i) Each Option and Right outstanding on the date such Change of Control occurs, and which is not then fully vested and exercisable, shall immediately vest and become exercisable to the full extent of the original grant for the remainder of its term.
          (ii) The surviving or resulting corporation may, in its discretion, provide for the assumption or replacement of each outstanding Option and Right granted under the Plan on terms which are no less favorable to the optionee than those applicable to the Options and Rights immediately prior to the Change of Control. If the surviving or resulting corporation offers to assume or replace the Options and Rights, the optionee may elect to have his or her Options and Rights assumed or replaced, in whole or in part, or to surrender on the date the Change of Control occurs his or her Options and Rights, in whole or in part, for cash equal to the excess of the Formula Price over the exercise price.
          (iii) In the event the successor corporation does not offer to assume or replace the outstanding Options and Rights as described in Section 9(b)(ii) hereof, each Option and Right will be exercised on the date such Change of Control occurs for cash equal to the excess of the Formula Price over the exercise price.
          (iv) The restrictions applicable to shares of Restricted Stock or to Restricted Units held by Key Employees pursuant to Section 7 shall lapse upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, and such Key Employees shall be entitled to elect, at any time during the 60 calendar days following such Change of Control, to receive immediately after the date the Key Employee makes such election either of the following: (A) unrestricted certificates for all of such shares, or (B) a lump sum cash amount equal to the number of such shares multiplied by the Formula Price. If a Key Employee does not make any election during the foregoing 60 day period, such Key Employee shall be deemed to have made the election described in Section 9(b)(vi)(A) as of the 60th day of such period, and unrestricted certificates shall be issued to such Key Employee immediately following such day as described in Section 9(b)(vi)(A) hereof.
 
          (v) If a Change of Control occurs during the course of a Performance Period or any Restriction Period applicable to an Award of Performance Shares pursuant to Section 6, then a Key Employee shall be deemed to have satisfied the Performance Objectives and to have completed any applicable Restriction Period effective on the date of such occurrence. Such Key Employee shall be paid, immediately following the occurrence of such Change of Control, a lump sum cash amount equal to the number of outstanding Performance Shares awarded to such Key Employee multiplied by the Formula Price.
     (d) Notwithstanding any provision in this Plan to the contrary, in the event of a Change of Control as described in Section 9(b)(iii) or Section 9(b)(iv) of the Plan, in the case of an awardee whose employment or service involuntarily terminates on or after the date of a shareholder approval described in either of such Sections but before the date of a consummation described in either of such Sections, the date of termination of such an awardee's employment or service shall be deemed for purposes of the Plan to be the day following the date of the applicable consummation.
10. Beneficiary
     (a) Each Key Employee, Director and/or his or her Transferee may file with the Company a written designation of one or more persons as the Beneficiary who shall be entitled to receive the Award, if any, payable under the Plan upon his or her death. A Key Employee, Director or Transferee may from time to time revoke or change his or her Beneficiary designation without the consent of any prior Beneficiary by filing a new designation with the Company. The last such designation received by the Company shall be controlling; provided, however, that no designation, or change or revocation thereof, shall be effective unless received by the Company prior to the Key Employee's, Director's or Transferee's death, as the case may be, and in no event shall it be effective as of a date prior to such receipt.
     (b) If no such Beneficiary designation is in effect at the time of death of a Key Employee, Director or Transferee, as the case may be, or if no designated Beneficiary survives the Key Employee, Director or Transferee or if such designation conflicts with applicable law, the estate of the Key Employee, Director or Transferee, as the case may be, shall be entitled to receive the Award, if any, payable under the Plan upon his or her death. If the Committee is in doubt as to the right of any person to receive such Award, the Company may retain such Award, without liability for any interest thereon, until the Committee determines the rights thereto, or the Company may pay such Award into any court of appropriate jurisdiction and such payment shall be a complete discharge of the liability of the Company therefor.
11. Administration of the Plan
 
     (a) All decisions, determinations or actions of the Committee made or taken pursuant to grants of authority under the Plan shall be made or taken in the sole discretion of the Committee and shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons for all purposes.
     (b) The Committee shall have full power, discretion and authority to interpret, construe and administer the Plan and any part thereof, and its interpretations and constructions thereof and actions taken thereunder shall be, except as otherwise determined by the Board, final, conclusive and binding on all persons for all purposes. Except to the extent otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, any action, authority or power reserved to the Committee shall be within the Committee's sole and absolute discretion.
     (c) The Committee's decisions and determinations under the Plan need not be uniform and may be made selectively among Key Employees and Directors, whether or not such Key Employees and Directors are similarly situated.
     (d) The Committee may, in its sole discretion, delegate such of its powers as it deems appropriate to the Company's Executive Vice President, Human Resources (or other person holding a similar position) or the Company's Chief Executive Officer, except that Awards to executive officers shall be made, and matters related thereto shall be determined, solely by the Committee or the Board or any other appropriate committee of the Board.
12. Amendment, Extension or Termination
     The Board or the Committee may, at any time, amend or modify the Plan and, specifically, may make such modifications to the Plan as it deems necessary to avoid the application of Section 162(m) of the Code and the Treasury regulations issued thereunder. However: (i) with respect only to Incentive Stock Options, no amendment shall, without approval by a majority of the Company's stockholders, (A) alter the group of persons eligible to participate in the Plan, or (B) except as provided in Section 13 increase the maximum number of shares of Stock which are available for Awards under the Plan; or, (ii) with respect to all Options and Rights, allow the Committee to reprice the Options or Rights. The Board may suspend or terminate the Plan at any time without the consent of any person. Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, the Plan shall not be amended, modified, suspended or terminated during the period in which a Change of Control is threatened. For purposes of the preceding sentence, a Change of Control shall be deemed to be threatened for the period beginning on the date of any Potential Change of Control, and ending upon the earlier of: (I) the second anniversary of the date of such Potential Change of Control, (II) the date a Change of Control occurs, or (III) the date the Board or the Committee determines in good faith that a Change of Control is no longer threatened. Further, notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, no amendment, modification, suspension or termination following a Change of Control shall adversely impair or reduce the rights of any person with respect to a prior Award without the consent of such person. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, the Board or the Committee may amend the Plan or an Award Document to take effect retroactively or otherwise, as
 
deemed necessary or advisable for the purpose of conforming the Plan or an Award Document to any present or future law relating to plans of this or similar nature (including, but not limited to, Code Section 409A) and the administrative regulations and rulings promulgated thereunder.
13. Adjustments in Event of Change in Common Stock
     In the event of any reorganization, merger, recapitalization, consolidation, liquidation, stock dividend, stock split, reclassification, combination of shares, rights offering, split-up or extraordinary dividend (including a spin-off) or divestiture, or any other change in the corporate structure or shares, the Committee may make such adjustment in the Stock subject to Awards, including Stock subject to purchase by an Option or issuable in respect of Restricted Units, or the terms, conditions or restrictions on Stock or Awards, including the price payable upon the exercise of such Option and the number of shares subject to Restricted Stock or Restricted Unit Awards, as the Committee deems equitable.
14. Miscellaneous
     (a) If a Change of Control has not occurred and if the Committee determines that a Key Employee has taken action inimical to the best interests of any Participating Company, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, terminate in whole or in part such portion of any Option or Right as has not yet become exercisable at the time of termination, terminate any Performance Share Award for which the Performance Period or any applicable Restriction Period has not been completed or terminate any Award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units for which the Restriction Period has not lapsed.
     (b) Except as provided in Section 9, nothing in this Plan or any Award granted hereunder shall confer upon any employee any right to continue in the employ of any Participating Company or interfere in any way with the right of any Participating Company to terminate his or her employment at any time. No Award payable under the Plan shall be deemed salary or compensation for the purpose of computing benefits under any employee benefit plan or other arrangement of any Participating Company for the benefit of its employees unless the Company shall determine otherwise. No Key Employee shall have any claim to an Award until it is actually granted under the Plan. To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company under this Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company. All payments to be made hereunder shall be paid from the general funds of the Company and no special or separate fund shall be established and no segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment of such amounts except as provided in Section 7(e) with respect to Restricted Stock.
     (c) The Committee shall have the right to make such provisions as deemed appropriate in its sole discretion to satisfy any obligation of the Company to withhold federal, state or local income or other taxes incurred by reason of the operation of the Plan or an
 
Award under the Plan, including but not limited to at any time: (i) requiring a Key Employee to submit payment to the Company for such taxes before making settlement of any Award of Stock or other amount due under the Plan, (ii) withholding such taxes from wages or other amounts due to the Key Employee before making settlement of any Award of Stock or other amount due under the Plan, (iii) making settlement of any Award of Stock or other amount due under the Plan to a Key Employee part in Stock and part in cash to facilitate satisfaction of such withholding obligations, or (iv) receiving Stock already owned by, or withholding Stock otherwise due to, the Key Employee in an amount determined necessary to satisfy such withholding obligations; provided, however, that, notwithstanding any language herein to the contrary, any Key Employee who is an executive officer of the Company (within the meaning of Section 16 of the Act) shall have the right to satisfy his or her obligations to the Company pursuant to this Section 14(c) by instructing the Company not to deliver to the Key Employee Stock otherwise deliverable to the Key Employee in an amount sufficient to satisfy such obligations to the Company.
     (d) The Committee may permit deferrals of compensation pursuant to the Plan or any subplan hereof which meet the requirements of Code Section 409A and the regulations thereunder. Additionally, to the extent any Award is subject to Code Section 409A, notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, the Plan does not permit the acceleration of the time or schedule of any distribution related to such Award, except as permitted by Code Section 409A and the regulations and rulings promulgated thereunder.
     (e) The Plan and the grant of Awards shall be subject to all applicable federal and state laws, rules, and regulations and to such approvals by any government or regulatory agency as may be required. The Plan and each Award Document shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of the Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction. Unless otherwise provided in the Award Document, recipients of an Award under the Plan are deemed to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the federal or state courts of Connecticut to resolve any and all issues that may arise out of or relate to the Plan or any related Award Document.
     (f) The terms of the Plan shall be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns.
     (g) Captions preceding the sections hereof are inserted solely as a matter of convenience and in no way define or limit the scope or intent of any provision hereof.
 
15. Effective Date, Term of Plan and Shareholder Approval
     The effective date of the Plan shall be May 18, 2005. No Award shall be granted under this Plan after the Plan's termination date. The Plan's termination date shall be the earlier of: (a) May 18, 2015, or (b) the date on which the Maximum Limit (as defined in Section 3 of the Plan) is reached; provided, however, that the Plan will continue in effect for existing Awards as long as any such Award is outstanding.

 
Exhibit 10.2
[DATE]
[Key Employee] [Address] [City, State, Zip]
I am pleased to inform you that effective [DATE], the Compensation and Personnel Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. ("The Hartford") approved an award on your behalf under The Hartford's Long-Term Incentive Compensation Program. Your award is comprised of three parts: a stock option, performance shares and restricted stock units.
You have been granted a non-qualified option to purchase all or any portion of shares of common stock of The Hartford under the terms of The Hartford 2005 Incentive Stock Plan (the "Plan") at an exercise price of $[XXX] per share, the New York Stock Exchange closing price of The Hartford's common stock on [DATE] (the date of grant of the option). [: This option will become exercisable at the later of (i) [third anniversary of the date of the grant], or (ii) the date the closing market price of The Hartford's common stock on the New York Stock Exchange has equaled or exceeded 125% of the exercise price for a period of ten consecutive trading days. However, any unexercised portion of your option expires in full on [ten years following the date of the grant].] [: This option will become exercisable in three consecutive annual installments, each equal to one-third of the shares subject to the option, as follows: one-third will become exercisable one year after the date of grant, an additional one-third will become exercisable two years after the date of grant, and the remaining one-third of the option will become exercisable three years after the date of grant. However, any unexercised portion of your option expires in full on [ten years following the date of the grant].]
x,xxx
TIER 1 EXECUTIVES
TIER 2 EXECUTIVES
You have also been granted [operating division] performance shares of The Hartford's common stock under the terms of the Plan. This is a contingent award, and the extent to which you may ultimately receive all or any of these performance shares depends upon continued employment and whether and to what extent, as determined by the Committee, the following performance objectives are achieved over the three-year performance period: [performance objectives] relative to targets established by the Committee.
x,xxx
You have also been granted restricted stock units of The Hartford. Each restricted stock unit award represents a contractual right to receive, pursuant to the terms of the Plan, one share of common stock of The Hartford per restricted stock unit at the end of the three-year period from [DATE  DATE] (the "Service Period"). This is a contingent award, and remains subject to forfeiture pending completion of the Service Period. Your restricted stock unit account will be credited with dividend equivalents, which are subject to the same terms and conditions as the restricted stock units to which they relate. These dividend equivalents will be deemed reinvested in a number of restricted stock units determined based on the fair market value of The Hartford common stock on the date the corresponding common stock dividend is payable to stockholders.
x,xxx
For performance shares and restricted stock units, if your active employment ceases during the applicable three-year period, and you then satisfy the rules for Total Disability or, if your were hired before 2002, Retirement under the Plan, you will receive, following the end of the period, a prorated award for the portion of the period you were actively employed.
The estimated value of your long-term award (the option, the performance shares and the restricted stock units) as of the date of grant was . Ultimately, the value of the award will depend on the stock price at the time of option exercise (or at the end of the Service Period in the case of restricted stock units), whether and to what extent the performance share objectives are achieved, and other factors.
$[XXX]
Enclosed is information related to performance shares. More information on option awards and restricted stock units can be obtained from The Hartford's Intranet Directory as follows:
From iConnect, select the HR Source tab. From the center of the screen, click on the small red box which says Visit HR Source Online. Select the Compensation tab. Select the appropriate item from the drop-down menu under the Long-Term Incentives. Some of the information and documents available include the following: The Hartford 2005 Incentive Stock Plan Prospectus, Beneficiary Designation Forms, Service Provider to Contact, and award treatment upon termination of employment.
You are strongly urged to review all of the above documents, as well as the other information provided, at your earliest convenience.
If you cannot access the information, please contact Executive Compensation, The Hartford, HO-1-141, Hartford Plaza, Hartford, CT 06115, (860) 547-4560, for paper copies.
 
Please note that this letter, along with the Plan and the enclosed information relating to performance shares, constitute your option, performance share and restricted stock unit agreement with The Hartford. Although you are not required to sign any formal documents, your option and performance share and restricted stock unit grants are subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan, as it may be amended from time to time, and all of the rules, procedures and interpretations of the Plan that the Committee may adopt from time to time. You have already received information about exercising your options from the Plan's stock option broker. These exercise procedures must be followed, and may change from time to time.
Your selection as an award recipient is significant recognition of your past and anticipated future contributions to The Hartford's success. Please accept this award with my warm congratulations.
Sincerely,
 
Effective this date, you have been granted a restricted stock award as summarized below:
(Under The Hartford 2005 Incentive Stock Plan ("the Plan"))
The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. ("The Hartford") Restricted Stock Award
This award of restricted stock is subject to the period of restriction as indicated below during which you may not sell, exchange, transfer, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of the shares awarded. One or more legended stock certificates evidencing your award will be held by The Hartford during the period of restriction. While your shares are being held by The Hartford, you will enjoy the benefits of share ownership including dividend payments and voting rights. Unless otherwise provided by the Plan, your shares will vest provided that you are continuously and actively employed by The Hartford until the end of the restriction period, at which time you will be issued one or more unrestricted stock certificates after satisfactory payment of applicable taxes. For further details regarding your award, including circumstances in which your shares may vest earlier than the time identified below, refer to the Summary of the provisions of the Plan relating to restricted stock attached hereto as Attachment A and the copy of the Plan attached hereto as Attachment B. One or more beneficiaries for your shares may be designated on the Beneficiary Designation Form attached hereto as Attachment C. Unless revoked, your Beneficiary Designation will apply to all restricted shares previously awarded to you under the Plan and any restricted shares that may be awarded to you in the future under the Plan. Should you wish to make a beneficiary designation, the Beneficiary Designation Form must be returned to Executive Compensation, HO-1-141, The Hartford, Hartford Plaza, Hartford, CT 06115. If the form is not returned to Executive Compensation, your shares transferable to a designated beneficiary will be transferred to your estate in the event of your death, except to the extent you previously filed a Beneficiary Designation Form applicable to future awards under the Plan.
Your restricted stock award is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this notice, the attached Summary, the Plan, and the administrative rules, procedures and interpretations adopted pursuant to the Plan, and such amendments as may be made to each of the foregoing from time to time. The foregoing documents, including any amendments, collectively constitute your restricted stock award agreement with The Hartford for purposes of the award referred to herein.
Ann M. de Raismes Executive Vice President, Human Resources The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.
Business Address: THE HARTFORD HARTFORD PLAZA HARTFORD, CT 06115
 
Effective this date, you have been granted a restricted stock award as summarized below:
(Under The Hartford 2005 Incentive Stock Plan ("the Plan"))
The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. ("The Hartford") Restricted Stock Award
This award of restricted stock is subject to the period of restriction as indicated below during which you may not sell, assign, transfer, pledge or otherwise dispose of the shares awarded. A legended stock certificate evidencing your award will be held by The Hartford during the period of restriction. While your shares are being held by The Hartford, you will enjoy the benefits of share ownership including dividend payments and voting rights. Your shares will vest provided you actively and continuously serve as a director of The Hartford until the end of the restriction period (unless otherwise provided by the Plan). Your shares may vest before the end of the restriction period in certain circumstances described in the Plan. When your shares vest, you will be issued an unrestricted stock certificate for the applicable number of shares. However, resignation from the Board will result in a forfeiture of all shares not vested at the time of such resignation, unless otherwise determined by the Compensation and Personnel Committee of The Hartford Board. For further details regarding your award, refer to the Prospectus attached hereto as Attachment A, which includes a copy of the Plan as well as a brief summary of the Federal tax consequences of your award. Attachment B is the Administrative Rules for the Plan. One or more beneficiaries for your shares may be designated on the Beneficiary Designation Form attached hereto as Attachment C. Should you wish to designate a beneficiary for your shares, the Beneficiary Designation Form must be returned to me at The Hartford, Hartford Plaza, HO-1-01, Hartford, CT 06115, Fax (860) 547-4562. If the form is not returned, your shares transferable to a designated beneficiary will be transferred to your estate in the event of your death, except to the extent that you previously filed a Beneficiary Designation Form applicable to future awards under the Plan. Unless revoked, your Beneficiary Designation Form will apply to all shares previously granted under the Plan and any shares that may be awarded to you in the future under the Plan. Please note that you may elect to be taxed on the value of your shares in the year of award by making an IRS Section 83(b) election. This election is made by filing a written statement describing your award with the IRS within 30 days of the date of award. If you make this election, you will have ordinary compensation income equal to the value of the shares in the year of award (determined without regard to the restrictions). Also, dividends received during the restriction period are taxed in the year received as ordinary dividend income. On a later sale of your shares, any appreciation or depreciation in the value of your shares from the date of award until the date of sale will be treated as capital gain or loss. In light of the potential severe tax cost in the event of a decline in share value or a forfeiture of your shares, making the Section 83(b) election may be inadvisable. You should consult your tax advisor for further details about the election and to determine whether it would be appropriate to make the election in your personal tax circumstances. If you decide to make the election, please forward a copy of your election statement to me at the above address.
Your restricted stock award is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this notice, the Plan, and the administrative rules, procedures and interpretations adopted pursuant to the Plan, and such amendments as may be made to each of the foregoing from time to time. The foregoing documents, including any amendments, collectively constitute your restricted stock award agreement with The Hartford for purposes of the award referred to herein.
Ann M. de Raismes Executive Vice President, Human Resources The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.
 
Attachment B
Set forth below are the Administrative Rules ("Rules") which have been adopted by the Compensation and Personnel Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (the "Company") for the administration of Restricted Stock under The Hartford 2005 Incentive Stock Plan (the "Plan") for Non-Employee Directors of the Company. All terms and conditions of the Plan (including those relating to any Change of Control of the Company), as it may be amended from time to time, and the rules and interpretations applicable under the Plan, as they may be adopted by the Compensation Committee from time to time, shall apply to all Restricted Stock granted under the Plan except as otherwise provided pursuant to the Rules set forth herein. Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings specified herein or assigned by the Plan.
 

 
Exhibit 10.3
The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.
Annual Executive Bonus Program
The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (the "Company") has an annual executive bonus program (the "Bonus Program") that is intended to provide certain Company executives and key managers with incentive compensation based upon the achievement of pre-established performance goals and individual performance. The Bonus Program is intended to provide an incentive for profitable growth and to motivate participating executives and key managers toward higher achievement and operating results, to tie their goals and interests to those of the Company and its shareholders and to enable the Company to attract and retain highly qualified executives and key managers.
United States tax laws generally do not allow publicly held companies to obtain tax deductions for compensation of more than $1 million paid in any year to any of their five most highly compensated executive officers unless such payments are "performance-based" as defined in the tax laws. Where the performance criteria provide the Company a choice among different measures, one of the requirements for compensation to be performance-based under those laws is that the Company must obtain shareholder approval every five years of the material terms of the performance goals for such compensation. In accordance with Internal Revenue Service rules under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code ("Section 162(m)"), the material terms of the Bonus Program constitute the framework within which the Compensation and Personnel Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee") would establish the actual performance goals.
The Committee generally takes reasonable measures to avoid the loss of a Company tax deduction due to Section 162(m). However, amendments can be made to the Bonus Program that can increase its cost to the Company and can alter the allocation of benefits among participating executive officers. In addition, the Committee may in certain circumstances approve bonus or other payments outside of the Bonus Program that do not meet the material terms of the Bonus Program described above and that may not be deductible.
The Company's shareholders approved the following material terms of the Bonus Program on May 18, 2005, at the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders:
1. The class of eligible executive shall include the five most highly compensated executive officers of the Company and its subsidiaries for any given year.
Class of Eligible Executives.
2. Awards of bonuses pursuant to the Bonus Program must be stated for the five most highly compensated executive officers in terms of an objective formula or standard as required by Section 162(m), which may be based on any one or more of the following factors (collectively, the "Performance Factors"): (i) earnings per share, (ii) return on equity, (iii) cash flow, (iv) return on total capital, (v) return on assets, (vi) economic value added, (vii) increase in surplus, (viii) reductions in operating expenses,
Performance Criteria.
 
(ix) increases in operating margins, (x) earnings before income taxes and depreciation, (xi) total shareholder return, (xii) return on invested capital, (xiii) cost reductions and savings, (xiv) earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, (xv) pre-tax operating income, (xvi) net income, (xvii) after-tax operating income or (xviii) productivity improvements. The objective formula or standard shall be:
3. The maximum bonus that may be paid to any of the five most highly compensated executive officers for any given year is the lesser of (a) 300% of such executive's annual bonus target in effect at the beginning of such year, as approved by the Committee, or (b) $5,000,000.
Maximum Payable to any Executive for Any One Year.

 
Exhibit 10.4
The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.
2005-2006 Compensation for Non-Employee Directors
Members of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (the "Company") who are employees of the Company or its subsidiaries are not compensated for service on the Board or any of its Committees. Compensation for non-employee directors for the period beginning on May 18, 2005, the date of the 2005 Annual Meeting, and ending on the date of the 2006 Annual Meeting, consists of the following:
Standard Fees.
In addition, each non-employee Committee chairperson receives an annual retainer of $10,000. Directors are reimbursed for travel and related expenses they incur in connection with their serving on the Board and its Committees, and are provided with life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment coverage, as described below.
Under the Restricted Stock Plan, non-employee directors receive grants of shares of restricted Common Stock as partial payment for their annual retainer fee. Grants of restricted shares of Common Stock under the Restricted Stock Plan are made on the date the Company makes its annual employee long-term incentive awards. The number of shares of each award of restricted stock is determined by dividing $100,000 by the fair market value (as defined in the Restricted Stock Plan) of the Common Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange as of the date of the award.
Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors.
Non-employee directors receiving shares of restricted Common Stock may not sell, assign or otherwise dispose of the restricted shares until the restriction period ends. The restriction period lapses on the third anniversary of the grant date. To the extent any of the following events occur prior to the third anniversary of the grant date, and the Compensation and Personnel Committee, in its sole discretion, consents to waive any remaining restrictions, the restriction period shall end with respect to all of the restricted shares currently held by a non-employee director: (i) the director's retirement at age 72, (ii) a "change of control" (as defined in the Restricted Stock Plan) of the Company, (iii) the director's death, (iv) the director's disability (as defined in the Restricted Stock Plan), or (v) the director's
 
resignation under certain circumstances. If a non-employee director resigns under circumstances other than the above-described before the restriction period ends, he or she will forfeit his or her restricted shares.
Each non-employee director may elect to participate in The Hartford Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Deferred Compensation Plan"). Participating non-employee directors may defer receipt of all or a portion of any cash compensation otherwise payable by the Company for service on the Board, including annual cash retainers for directors and Committee chairpersons and meeting fees. Deferred amounts may be allocated among a selection of hypothetical investment funds offered under the Deferred Compensation Plan, and are credited with hypothetical earnings generated by such funds. Deferred amounts and their earnings become distributable on the date selected by the non-employee director as permitted under the Deferred Compensation Plan.
Deferred Compensation.
In addition, non-employee directors may participate in The Hartford 2005 Incentive Stock Plan and defer all or a portion of any cash compensation through an investment in Company Common Stock.
The Company provides each non-employee director with $100,000 of group life insurance coverage and $750,000 of accidental death and dismemberment and permanent total disability coverage while he or she serves on the Board. Non-employee directors may purchase additional accidental death and dismemberment and permanent total disability coverage under the Company's voluntary accidental death and dismemberment plan for non-employee directors and their dependents.
Insurance.
The Board has established stock ownership guidelines, effective May 18, 2005, the date of the Annual Meeting, for each non-employee director to obtain, within three years, an ownership position in the Company's Common Stock equal to five times his or her annual cash retainer.
Stock Ownership Guidelines for Non-Employee Directors.


