FILE:HIG/HIG-8K-20061011170745.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following documents are filed with reference to and are hereby incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (333-135608) of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 5, 2006, as amended on August 25, 2006, September 1, 2006 and September 5, 2006. Exhibits 4.1 6.10% Senior Note due October 1, 2041. 5.1 Opinion of Debevoise & Plimpton LLP. 23.1 Consent of Debevoise & Plimpton LLP (included in Exhibit 5.1).
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

UNLESS THIS SECURITY IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY SECURITY ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF DTC OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN DTC OR SUCH NOMINEE, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
CUSIP: 416515AP9
No. 1
$408,774,000
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of Delaware (hereinafter called the "Company", which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of FOUR HUNDRED EIGHT MILLION AND SEVEN HUNDRED SEVENTY-FOUR THOUSAND U.S. Dollars on October 1, 2041, and to pay interest thereon from October 10, 2006 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on April 1 and October 1 in each year, commencing April 1, 2007, at the rate of 6.10% per annum, on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, until the principal hereof is paid or duly provided for or made available for payment, and (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable) at the rate of 6.10% per annum on any overdue principal and premium and on any overdue installment of interest).
The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the March 15 or September 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in The City of New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
provided
however
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
Any additional Securities issued under the same CUSIP as this Security shall be fungible with this Security for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Dated: October 10, 2006
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
By: Name: John N. Giamalis Title: Senior Vice President and Treasurer Attest:
/s/ John N. Giamalis
Name: Richard G. Costello Title:Vice President, Assistant General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
/s/ Richard G. Costello
This is one of the Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated: October 10, 2006
The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank), as Trustee
By: Authorized Signatory
/s/ Richard C. Tarnas
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of March 9, 2004 as supplemented and amended from time to time (herein called the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank), as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $408,774,000.
All terms used in this Security that are defined in the Indenture shall have the meaning assigned to them in the Indenture.
The Company shall have the right, at its option, to redeem this Security, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
1. 100% of the principal amount of the Securities of this series to be redeemed; or
2. the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Securities of this series to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the then current Treasury Rate plus 20 basis points.
In each case, the Company shall pay accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to the Redemption Date.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term ("Remaining Life") of the Securities of this series to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Securities.
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
"Independent Investment Banker" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers that the Company appoints to act as the Independent Investment Banker from time to time.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., and their respective successors, and two other firms that are primary U.S. Government securities dealers (each a "Primary Treasury Dealer") which the Company specifies from time to time; provided, however, that if any of them ceases to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company shall substitute another Primary Treasury Dealer.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per year equal to: (1) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue; provided that, if no maturity is within three months before or after the Remaining Life of the Securities of this series to be redeemed, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue shall be determined and the Treasury Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from those yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month; or (2) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per year equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
Notice of redemption shall be mailed at least 30 but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of Securities of this series to be redeemed at its registered address. The notice of redemption for such Securities shall state, among other things, the amount of Securities of this series to be redeemed, the Redemption Date, the manner in which the redemption price shall be calculated and the place or places that payment shall be made upon presentation and surrender of such Securities to be redeemed. Unless the Company defaults in the payment of the redemption price together with accrued interest, interest will cease to accrue on any Securities of this series that have been called for redemption on the Redemption Date. The Company shall notify the Trustee of the redemption price promptly after the calculation thereof and the Trustee shall have no responsibility for such calculation.
In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
Installments of accrued and unpaid interest whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of the Securities of this series, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Dates according to their terms.
The Indenture contains provisions for satisfaction, discharge and defeasance of the entire indebtedness on this security, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
The Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
THIS SECURITY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
UNIF GIFT MIN ACT  Custodian
     
     
(Minor) (Cust)
Under Uniform Gifts to Minors Act
     
(State)
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto
[PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE]
     
     
     
[PLEASE PRINT OR TYPE NAME AND ADDRESS, INCLUDING ZIP CODE, OF ASSIGNEE]
     
the within Security and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing such person attorney to transfer such Security on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
Dated:
     
NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within Security in every particular without alteration or enlargement or any change whatsoever.

October 11, 2006
The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. Hartford Plaza Hartford, Connecticut 06115
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This opinion is furnished to you in connection with the preparation and filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), of a Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-135608) (the ""), which includes a form of Prospectus (the "Prospectus"), relating to the issuance by The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), of $408,774,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 6.10% Senior Notes due October 1, 2041 (the ""), in exchange for Hartford Life, Inc.'s 7.65% Debentures due 2027 and 7.375% Senior Notes due 2031. The HFSG Notes have been issued pursuant to a Senior Indenture, dated as of March 9, 2004 (the ""), between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank), as trustee (the "").
Commission
Act
Registration Statement
Company
HFSG Notes
Indenture
Trustee
In rendering the opinion expressed below, (a) we have examined and relied on the originals, or copies certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of such agreements, documents and records of the Company and its subsidiaries and such other instruments and certificates of public officials, officers and representatives of the Company and its subsidiaries and others as we have deemed necessary or appropriate for the purposes of such opinion, (b) we have examined and relied as to factual matters upon, and have assumed the accuracy of, the statements made in the certificates of public officials, officers and representatives of the Company and its subsidiaries and others delivered to us and the representations and warranties contained in or made pursuant to the dealer manager agreement relating to the exchange offer and (c) we have made such investigations of law as we have deemed necessary or appropriate as a basis for such opinion. In rendering the opinion expressed below, we have assumed without independent investigation or inquiry, (i) the authenticity and completeness of all documents submitted to us as originals, (ii) the genuineness of all signatures on all documents that we examined, (iii) the conformity to authentic originals and completeness of documents submitted to us as certified, conformed or reproduction copies, (iv) the legal capacity of all natural persons executing documents, (v) that the Trustee had and has the power and authority to execute and deliver, and to perform its obligations under, the Indenture, (vi) the due authorization, execution and delivery of the Indenture by the Trustee, (vii) the enforceability of the Indenture against the Trustee and (vii) the due authentication and delivery of the HFSG Notes on behalf of the Trustee in the manner provided in the Indenture.
Based on and subject to the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the HFSG Notes have been validly issued and constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits provided by the Indenture.
The opinion set forth above is subject to the following limitations and qualifications:
(a) Our opinion is subject to the effects of (i) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or other similar laws now or hereafter in effect affecting creditors' rights generally, (ii) general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding in law or equity), (iii) an implied covenant of good faith, reasonableness and fair dealing, and standards of materiality and (iv) limitations with respect to enforceability of provisions providing for indemnification or contribution arising under applicable law (including court decisions) or public policy.
(b) We express no opinion as to the priority status under the Bankruptcy Code (11 U.S.C.  101  1330, as amended) of the HFSG Notes.
(c) Without limiting the foregoing, we express no opinion as to the validity, binding effect or enforceability of any provision of the Indenture or the HFSG Notes that purports to (i) waive, release or vary any defense, right or privilege of, or any duties owing to, any party to the extent that such waiver, release or variation may be limited by applicable law, (ii) constitute a waiver of inconvenient forum or improper venue, or (iii) relate to the subject matter jurisdiction of a court to adjudicate any controversy. In addition, the enforceability of any provision in the Indenture or the HFSG Notes to the effect that () the terms thereof may not be waived or modified except in writing, () the express terms thereof supersede any inconsistent course of dealing, performance or usage or () certain determinations made by one party shall have conclusive effect, may be limited under certain circumstances.
x
y
z
(d) We express no opinion as to whether a United States Federal court would accept jurisdiction in any dispute, action, suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to either the Indenture or the HFSG Notes or the transactions contemplated thereby.
The opinion expressed herein is limited to the laws of the State of New York as currently in effect and we do not express any opinion herein concerning any other laws.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K filed on October 11, 2006, incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, and to the reference to our firm under the caption "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus. In giving such consent, we do not thereby concede that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Debevoise & Plimpton LLP


