FILE:HIG/HIG-8K-20070615165621.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Table of Contents
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:            860-547-5000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Amendment of Base Salary
Mr. Wolin's base salary for 2007 was increased on an annualized basis from $711,000 to $800,000, effective June 11, 2007.
Modification of Cash Incentive Award Targets
The 2007 Cash Incentive Award targets for Mr. Marra and Mr. Wolin were increased by 20.8% and 27.9%, respectively.
Amendment of Long-Term Incentive Compensation
The long-term incentive compensation arrangements for Mr. Marra, Mr. Wolin and Mr. Johnson for 2007 were amended by making, effective on the second trading day following the filing of the Company's Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 (the "Award Date"), the additional long-term incentive awards (the "June 2007 Awards") summarized below. The tables below set forth, in addition to the amount of the June 2007 Awards, the amount of long-term incentive awards that had been authorized prior to June 2007 with respect to fiscal year 2007 and the aggregate amount of long-term incentive awards to each of Mr. Marra, Mr. Wolin and Mr. Johnson authorized with respect to fiscal year 2007.
     
Stock Options
1
The Company determined to award, on the Award Date, options to purchase the number of shares of common stock with the dollar values listed under the column headed "Additional 2007 Grant Authorized in June 2007" below. The option exercise price for the additional options awarded will be equal to the closing price of the Company's common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the Award Date. The number of stock options awarded will be determined by dividing the dollar value of the award by the value per option established using a binomial lattice option pricing model based on the closing price of the Company's common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the Award Date, in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment ("FAS 123R"). This value will not be reduced to reflect estimated forfeitures during the period.
Table of Contents
     
Restricted Stock Units
2
The Company determined to award, on the Award Date, restricted stock units with the dollar values listed under the column headed "Additional 2007 Grant Authorized in June 2007" below. The number of restricted stock units awarded will be determined by dividing the dollar value of the award by the closing price of the Company's common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the Award Date, in accordance with FAS 123R:
      
Performance Shares
3
The Company determined to award, on the Award Date, performance shares with the dollar values listed under the column headed "Additional 2007 Grant Authorized in June 2007" below. The number of performance shares to be awarded will be determined by dividing the dollar value of the award by the value on the Award Date of each performance share, which is calculated based on the closing price of the Company's common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the Award Date. Because dividends are not paid on performance shares during the performance period, the Award Date value of a Performance Share is slightly lower than the closing stock price on the New York Stock Exchange on the Award Date. The value per performance share is determined by discounting the closing stock price by the present value of projected dividend payments over the performance period, in accordance with FAS 123R. In addition, the Company (i) determined that the performance period applicable to the performance shares granted in June 2007 will be the same as the performance period applicable to the performance shares granted on February 21, 2007 and (ii) changed the performance measurement criteria relating to the performance shares granted in June 2007 from measures of Life operations performance to measures of overall Company performance, in the case of Mr. Marra, and from measures of overall Company performance to measures of Property & Casualty operations performance, in the case of Mr. Wolin.
     
Amendment of Compensation Terms for Mr. Zwiener
The Company agreed that, in consideration for Mr. Zwiener's performance of certain terms of his separation from the Company, in connection with the payment to Mr. Zwiener of the Performance Shares and Restricted Stock Units granted on February 17, 2005, to waive the conditions of continued employment (i) through December 31, 2007 that would otherwise have been applicable to the award to Mr. Zwiener of such Performance Shares and (ii) through February 17, 2008 that would otherwise have been applicable to the award to Mr. Zwiener of such Restricted Stock Units. Under the Company's agreement, these awards of Performance Shares and Restricted Stock Units will be prorated based on the portion of the performance or restricted period, as applicable, during which Mr. Zwiener is actively employed by the Company. The terms and conditions of these awards would remain otherwise unchanged.
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


