FILE:HIG/HIG-8K-20080918171206.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On September 18, 2008, The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. issued a press release disclosing its investment holdings in Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and its affiliates and American International Group, Inc. and its affiliates. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. Exhibit No. 99.1 Press Release of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. dated September 18, 2008
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

NEWS RELEASE
The Hartford Discloses Investment Holdings In Lehman And AIG
Hartford, Conn., Sept. 18, 2008In response to recent market events, The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (NYSE: HIG), one of the nation's largest and most diversified financial services companies, today disclosed its investment holdings in Lehman Brothers and American International Group as set forth in the table below. As of June 30, 2008, the company's general account assets were $94.6 billion.
"We are seeing unprecedented volatility in the capital markets and these are obviously very trying times," said Ramani Ayer, The Hartford's chairman and chief executive officer. "It has been difficult for our customers, shareholders and employees to watch the events that have unfolded, with so many livelihoods tied to the financial services marketplace."
"We recognize the importance of the commitments we have made to our policyholders and are well capitalized to meet those commitments. We remain confident in the diversified operating businesses that form the foundation of our company. Our strong balance sheet, excellent insurance financial strength ratings and low debt-to-capitalization ratio provide us with financial flexibility.
"For 198 years, The Hartford has successfully navigated through many different business cycles. The promises we make to our customers and our partners are paramount and we will continue to use our experience and expertise to deliver on our promises," added Ayer.
The Hartford's insurance financial strength ratings stand as follows: Moody's (Aa3), A.M. Best (A+) and Standard & Poor's (AA-).
The table below sets forth the company's aggregate debt and equity exposures at GAAP amortized cost to Lehman and AIG, as of September 16, 2008.
1 The company also has a $35 million private placement investment in an AIG affiliate in which the company has a priority claim on a diversified pool of assets.
2 The company also owns $97 million of senior debt issued by operating subsidiaries of AIG.
3 The company also owns $35 million of subordinated debt issued by operating subsidiaries of AIG.
Derivative Exposures
The Company had approximately $50 million of unsecured counterparty exposure to Lehman in connection with derivatives transactions as of September 16, 2008.
The Company also is exposed to senior debt issued by Lehman and AIG through credit default swaps. The company's aggregate exposure to Lehman and AIG pursuant to these swaps is approximately $30 million and $70 million, respectively.
About The Hartford
The Hartford, a Fortune 100 company, is one of the nation's largest and most diversified financial services companies, with 2007 revenues of $25.9 billion. The Hartford is a leading provider of investment products, life insurance and group benefits; automobile and homeowners products; and business property and casualty insurance. International operations are located in Japan, the United Kingdom, Brazil, Canada and Ireland. The Hartford's Internet address is .
www.thehartford.com
HIG-F
Some of the statements in this release may be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We caution investors that these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results may differ materially. Investors should consider the important risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ. These important risks and uncertainties include those discussed in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to update this release, which speaks as of the date issued.


