FILE:HIG/HIG-8K-20081218172617.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 12, 2008, The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (the "Company"), entered into the Second Amendment (the "Amendment") to the Amended and Restated Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated August 9, 2007 (as amended, restated, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "Credit Agreement"), among the Company, and a syndicate of lenders (the "Lenders"), including Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as syndication agents, and Wachovia Bank, N.A., as documentation agent. The Amendment carves out from the limitation on liens covenant set forth in Section 5.11 of the Credit Agreement any liens granted by the Company or any of its borrowing subsidiaries to secure borrowings by the Company or any of its subsidiaries from any Federal Home Loan Bank, provided the aggregate outstanding principal amount of secured indebtedness shall not exceed $1 billion. The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Second Amendment to the Credit Agreement, dated as of December 12, 2008 and filed herewith as Exhibit 10.01.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit No. 10.1 Second Amendment, dated as of December 12, 2008, to the Amended and Restated Five-Year Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated as of August 9, 2007 (as amended, restated, modified or supplemented from time to time), by and among the Company and the Lenders, including Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as syndication agents, and Wachovia Bank, N.A., as documentation agent.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

SECOND AMENDMENT, dated as of December 12, 2008 (this "Amendment"), to the Amended and Restated Five-Year Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement, dated as of August 9, 2007 (as amended, restated, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "Credit Agreement"), among The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (the "Company"), the Borrowing Subsidiaries from time to time party thereto, the lenders named therein, and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent for the lenders (the "Administrative Agent").
WHEREAS, the Company, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders have agreed to amend the Credit Agreement as set forth below.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and of the mutual agreements set forth herein, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
SECTION 1. Each capitalized term used but not defined herein shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.
Defined Terms.
SECTION 2. Section 5.11(d) of the Credit Agreement shall be replaced in its entirety by the following:
Amendment to Credit Agreement.
"(d) any pledge of, or other Lien upon, any assets as security for the payment of any tax, assessment or other similar charge by any Governmental Authority or public body, or as security required by law or governmental regulation as a condition to the transaction of any business or the exercise of any privilege or right, including pledges of or Liens on assets required by law or governmental regulation to be granted to secure borrowings by the Company or any Subsidiary from any Federal Home Loan Bank; , that the aggregate outstanding principal amount of secured Indebtedness permitted under this clause (d) shall at no time exceed $1,000,000,000;"
provided
SECTION 3. The Company hereby represents and warrants to each Lender that:
Representations and Warranties.
(a) the representations and warranties set forth in Article III of the Credit Agreement are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof and after giving effect to this Amendment, with the same effect as if made on and as of such date, except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date, in which case they were true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date; and
(b) as of the date hereof, no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
SECTION 4. This Amendment shall become effective as of the first date on which the Administrative Agent shall have received duly executed counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the authorized signatures of the Company and Lenders constituting at least the Required Lenders.
Effectiveness.
SECTION 5. Except as specifically set forth in this Amendment, the Credit Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Credit Agreement.
SECTION 6. This Amendment shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of New York.
Applicable Law.
SECTION 7. . This Amendment may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original but all of which, when taken together, shall constitute a single contract. Delivery of an executed signature page of this Amendment by facsimile transmission or other electronic imaging means shall be as effective as delivery of a manually signed counterpart of this Amendment.
Counterparts
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers of the day and year first written above.


