FILE:HIG/HIG-8K-20080227171251.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(c) On February 21, 2008, the Board of Directors of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (the "Company") appointed the current co-chief operating officer of Hartford Life Insurance Company ("Hartford Life"), Lizabeth H. Zlatkus, as Chief Financial Officer of the Company, effective May 1, 2008. A copy of the press release relating to Ms. Zlatkus's appointment is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. Ms. Zlatkus, 49, joined the Company in 1983 and has held positions of increasing responsibility in finance, risk management and business operations. Ms. Zlatkus was named executive vice president of Hartford Life in March 2000, with overall profit-and-loss responsibility for Hartford Lifes Group Benefits Division. Ms. Zlatkus was named chief financial officer of Hartford Life in 2003 and was also given responsibility for actuarial, risk management and Hartford Lifes information technology area. In February 2006, she was named president of International Wealth Management and Gr oup Benefits. Ms. Zlatkus is an Executive Vice President of the Company and has served as co-chief operating officer of the Companys life operations since June 11, 2007. For 2008, Ms. Zlatkus's base salary is $825,000, her target cash incentive award opportunity is $1,000,000 and her long-term incentive opportunity is $2,675,000. Actual cash incentive awards generally range from 0% and 200% of the target levels, depending on demonstrated company and individual performance relative to the established goals and objectives. The Company anticipates entering into an employment agreement with Ms. Zlatkus upon her assumption of the role of Chief Financial Officer. The Company anticipates the terms of that agreement will be substantially similar to those of the Company's other most-senior executive officers. (e) Concurrent with the actions referred to in Item 5.02(c) above, the Compensation and Personnel Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors approved a retention bonus for Dav id Johnson, the Company's current Chief Financial Officer. The terms of the cash retention bonus provide that Mr. Johnson will receive a cash payment of $500,000 on June 15, 2008.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
Officer Compensation The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the three other most highly compensated current executive officers (together, the "executive officers") of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (the "Company") receive (i) annual cash compensation in the form of base salaries and incentive compensation and (ii) long-term incentive awards in the form of stock options, performance shares and restricted stock units. For 2007, the Companys executive officers were Ramani Ayer, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Thomas M. Marra, President and Chief Operating Officer; David M. Johnson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Neal S. Wolin, Executive Vice President of the Company and President and Chief Operating Officer, Property & Casualty; and John Walters, Executive Vice President of the Company and co-Chief Operating Officer, Hartford Life. The Committee oversees and reviews the Companys executive compensation policies and prog rams and approves the form and amount of compensation to be paid to executive officers. Each of the members of the Committee is independent of the Company and its management under the standards set forth in the Companys Corporate Governance Guidelines and in accordance with the requirements of the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. Achievement of Performance Objectives for the January 1, 2005  December 31, 2007 Performance Period On February 17, 2005, the Committee determined to give executives of the Company the opportunity to earn shares of common stock of the Company contingent on the Company's achieving one or more performance objectives over the January 1, 2005  December 31, 2007 performance period established by the Committee ("2005 Performance Shares"). On February 21, 2008, based on the level of the Companys performance relative to the pre-established performance objectives, the Committee determined to award a maximum payout amount to each participant. In accordance with the Companys administrative procedures, portions of the awarded shares will be withheld to satisfy the statutory tax withholding obligations associated with the payout of the awards. Information regarding the 2005 Performance Share payouts to each executive officer is set forth on Exhibit 99.2 attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference. Annual Cash Compensation and Long-Term Incentive Awards Set forth on Exhibit 99.2 attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference is information for each executive officer relating to: (i) the cash incentive award in respect of the year ended December 31, 2007; (ii) base salary information for 2008; and (iii) long-term incentive award determinations made by the Committee on February 21, 2008. The Company intends to provide additional information regarding other compensation for the executive officers in respect of and during the year ended December 31, 2007 in the proxy statement for its 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1 Press Release of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. dated February 25, 2008 99.2 Summary of Certain 2007-2008 Executive Compensation
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

The Hartford Names Lizabeth H. Zlatkus Chief Financial Officer and John C. Walters President of Life Operations
The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (NYSE: HIG), one of the nation's largest diversified financial services companies, today announced the promotions of two of its most accomplished senior executives to new leadership roles in the organization. Lizabeth H. Zlatkus, 49, has been named executive vice president and chief financial officer of The Hartford, and John C. Walters, 46, has been named president and chief operating officer of the company's life operations. Zlatkus will report to Ramani Ayer, The Hartford's chairman and chief executive officer. Walters will continue to report to Thomas Marra, The Hartford's president and chief operating officer. Both leaders will continue to serve as members of the Office of the Chairman.
HARTFORD, Conn.
The promotions are effective May 1, 2008, following a transition period during which Walters and Zlatkus, who are presently co-chief operating officers of The Hartford's life operations, will prepare to assume their new roles. Zlatkus will succeed current CFO David M. Johnson, who announced in January his intention to leave the company by mid-year. In his new position, Walters will oversee all of The Hartford's life operations. The Hartford's life operations have contributed significantly to the company's growth over the past decade and provide the platform for future global expansion.
"Liz and John have both compiled an exceptional record of achievement and we are pleased that our deep reservoir of internal talent has filled two of the most important posts in our organization," said Ayer. "With Liz leading our finance team, we will continue our focus on capital and enterprise risk management and excellence in financial reporting. And with John at the helm of our life operations, we will continue to leverage our tremendous strengths in distribution and product to fortify our industry leadership in asset accumulation and protection solutions."
LIZABETH H. ZLATKUS
Following varied and successful roles in both operations and finance, Zlatkus will now have responsibility for corporate strategy, finance, capital and enterprise risk management, investor relations, real estate, and corporate information systems functions. Her most recent assignment was co-chief operating officer of The Hartford's life operations and president of International Wealth Management and Group Benefits. Prior to that, Zlatkus held positions of increasing responsibility throughout the company, including chief financial officer for the company's life operations. Under Zlatkus's leadership of International Wealth Management and Group Benefits, The Hartford is the leader in variable annuity assets under management in Japan and the number two seller of fully insured group disability and group life insurance in the U.S. Zlatkus joined The Hartford in 1983 and originally served in an accounting capacity for the company's property and casualty operations.
Zlatkus began her professional career at Peat Marwick Mitchell & Co. (now KPMG). Named to the President's Committee on Employment of People with Disabilities in 1999, she was appointed to the LOMA board of directors in 2005, and was selected one of the top one hundred "Women to Watch" by in 2000 and 2006. Zlatkus earned a B.S. from Pennsylvania State University and was selected as an alumni fellow in 2003. She serves on the Pennsylvania State University board of visitors.
Business Insurance
"Liz is a dynamic leader with a wealth of experience in building successful teams across several areas of our company."
Ayer said. "In every instance, she has compiled a remarkable record of achievement in driving results, especially in the company's group benefits and international businesses. With her operational background and proven financial expertise, Liz is an excellent choice for CFO of The Hartford."
JOHN C. WALTERS
In his new role, Walters will lead an organization with more than $370 billion in assets under management and a mission to develop and distribute superior wealth management products for customers in key markets around the world. Walters joined The Hartford in 2000 from First Union Securities, the brokerage subsidiary of First Union Corp. In 2006, he became president of the company's U.S. Wealth Management division, and was named co-chief operating officer of life operations in 2007. Under Walters's leadership, The Hartford successfully built the fastest-growing, non-proprietary, retail mutual-fund family in history to reach $50 billion in assets under management. The funds were recently ranked first in the U.S. equity category for 2007 by . The company is also a market leader in retail variable annuity assets under management.
Barron's
"For nearly eight years, John has played an integral role in driving the growth and diversification of our life business," said Marra. "He has an unrelenting focus on winning in this marketplace and has strong vision and foresight on The Hartford's opportunities in the global retirement landscape. Under John's leadership, The Hartford has become a major player in the mutual fund business and has made key acquisitions to propel our retirement plans business."
Walters earned a B.S. in business and finance from the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, and an M.B.A. from Duke University's Fuqua School of Business. He is also a member of the board of governors of the Investment Company Institute (ICI) and a member of the board of trustees for the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art in Hartford, Conn.
CEO SUMMARY
"Today's announcement is further evidence of The Hartford's deep bench strength. Liz is an exceptional candidate to fill this critical corporate role and I am equally certain that our life operations will continue to perform well under John's expanded leadership. Together, these appointments strengthen The Hartford's position to succeed as we focus on our global leadership in insurance and investments," Ayer said.
The Hartford, a Fortune 100 company, is one of the nation's largest diversified financial services companies, with 2007 revenues of $25.9 billion. The Hartford is a leading provider of investment products, life insurance and group benefits; automobile and homeowners products; and business property and casualty insurance. International operations are located in Japan, the United Kingdom, Canada, Ireland, and Brazil. The Hartford's Internet address is www.thehartford.com.
HIG-F
###
Some of the statements in this release may be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We caution investors that these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results may differ materially. Investors should consider the important risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ. These important risks and uncertainties include those discussed in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to update this release, which speaks as of the date issued.

EXHIBIT 99.2
Cash Incentive Awards
On February 21, 2008, the Compensation and Personnel Committee (the "Committee") of the Company's Board of Directors awarded the following 2007 annual cash incentives:
Base Salary
The 2008 base salary for each executive officer, which became effective as of February 1, 2008, is set forth below:
1
Stock Options
On February 21, 2008, the Committee determined to award, effective the second trading day following the filing of the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 (the "Award Date"), options to purchase the number of shares of common stock with the dollar values listed below. The option exercise price per option awarded on the Award Date shall be equal the closing price of the Company's common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the Award Date. The number of stock options awarded on the Award Date shall be determined by dividing the dollar value of the award by the value per option established using a binomial lattice option pricing model based on the closing price per share of Company Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the Award Date, in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123(R), ("FAS 123R"). This value shall not be reduced to reflect estimated forfeitures during the period.
Share-Based Payment
         
3
Restricted Stock Units
On February 21, 2008, the Committee determined to award on the Award Date, restricted stock units with the dollar values listed below. The number of restricted stock units awarded on the Award Date shall be determined by dividing the dollar value of the award by the closing price per share of Company's Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the Award Date, in accordance with FAS 123R:  
4
Performance Shares
On February 21, 2008, the Committee determined to award on the Award Date, performance shares with the dollar values listed below. The number of performance shares to be awarded shall be determined by dividing the dollar value of the award by the Award Date value per performance share based on the closing stock price on the New York Stock Exchange on the Award Date. Because dividends are not paid on performance shares during the three-year performance period, the Award Date value of a performance share is slightly less than the closing stock price on the New York Stock Exchange on the Award Date. The Award Date value per performance share is determined by discounting the closing stock price by the present value of projected dividend payments over the performance period, in accordance with FAS 123R:  
Performance Share Award Payouts
On February 21, 2008, the Committee determined to pay out, effective February 21, 2008, performance share awards to the executive officers for the performance period from January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2007 in the common stock amounts listed below:  
On February 21, 2008, the closing price of the Company's common stock on the New York Stock Exchange was $73.19.
1
These stock options will vest upon the later of: (i) the date upon which the closing price of the underlying stock on the New York Stock Exchange equals or exceeds 125% of the option exercise price for a period of at least 10 consecutive trading days; and (ii) three years from the Award Date.
2
Mr. Johnson has announced his intention to resign from the Company in 2008.
3
Each restricted stock unit represents a contractual right to receive one share of common stock of the Company at the end of a three-year service period.
4
Performance shares represent shares of common stock of the Company which vest upon the Company's achievement of one or more performance objectives over the performance period established by the Committee. The performance shares will not vest and become payable unless and until the Committee determines, following the end of the performance period, that the performance objectives have been met. The Committee in its sole discretion may elect to pay such awards in shares of common stock, or part in shares of common stock and part in cash, or entirely in cash.


