FILE:HIG/HIG-8K-20090626150156.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On June 26, 2009, The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (the "Company"), entered into a letter agreement, including a Securities Purchase AgreementStandard Terms incorporated therein (collectively, the "Agreement"), with the U.S. Department of the Treasury ("Treasury") pursuant to the TARP Capital Purchase Program. The Company also entered into a letter agreement (the "Letter Agreement") with the Treasury that confirms the parties' understandings of specified provisions of the Agreement with respect to the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Agreement and the Letter Agreement, copies of which are filed as Exhibit 10.1 and Exhibit 10.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
     Under the Agreement, the Company issued to Treasury, on June 26, 2009, 3,400,000 shares of Preferred Stock (as defined below) and a warrant (the "Warrant") to purchase, within the ten-year term of the Warrant, up to 52,093,973 shares of the Company's common stock at an initial exercise price of $9.79 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $3.4 billion in cash. The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Warrant, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 4.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The Agreement and the Letter Agreement contain limitations on certain actions of the Company, including, but not limited to, payment of dividends in excess of the Company's current quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share, redemptions and acquisitions of Company equity securities, and compensation of senior executive officers. Please refer to the documents incorporated herein by reference for a complete description of these limitations.
     The information set forth under "Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" is incorporated herein by reference.
     The information set forth under "Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" is incorporated herein by reference.
     The information set forth under "Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" is incorporated herein by reference.
     On June 25, 2009, in connection with the issuance of the Preferred Stock, the Company filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, a Certificate of Designations for the purpose of amending its Certificate of Incorporation to fix the designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights of a new series of Series E Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share and liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (the "Preferred Stock") in connection with the Agreement. The Certificate of Designations was effective immediately upon filing. The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Certificate of Designations, which is filed as Exhibit 3.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     In order to satisfy a key eligibility requirement for participating in the TARP Capital Purchase Program pursuant to the Agreement, on June 24, 2009, the Company completed its acquisition of Federal Trust Corporation, the parent company of Federal Trust Bank, a federally chartered FDIC-insured savings bank headquartered in Sanford, Florida.
     On June 26, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Agreement. The press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
     (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3.1
     The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the state of Delaware (the ""), in accordance with the provisions of Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, does hereby certify:
Corporation
     The Special Committee, a duly authorized committee of the board of directors of the Corporation (the ""), in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated November 13, 2008, the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation and Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, by unanimous written consent dated June 19, 2009, adopted the following resolution creating a series of 3,400,000 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as "".
Board of Directors
Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series E
     , that pursuant to the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation and Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:
RESOLVED
     Part 1. . There is hereby created out of the authorized and unissued shares of preferred stock of the Corporation a series of preferred stock designated as the "Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series E" (the ""). The authorized number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be 3,400,000.
Designation and Number of Shares
Designated Preferred Stock
     Part 2. . The Standard Provisions contained in Annex A attached hereto are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Certificate of Designations to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein.
Standard Provisions
     Part 3. . The following terms are used in this Certificate of Designations (including the Standard Provisions in Annex A hereto) as defined below:
Definitions
     (a) "" means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.
Common Stock
     (b) "" means February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year.
Dividend Payment Date
 
     (c) "" means the Common Stock, the Corporation's Series A Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock, the Corporation's Series B Non-Voting Contingent Convertible Preferred Stock, the Corporation's Series C Non-Voting Contingent Convertible Preferred Stock, the Corporation's Series D Non-Voting Contingent Convertible Preferred Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation the terms of which expressly provide that it ranks junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Junior Stock
     (d) "" means $1,000 per share of Designated Preferred Stock.
Liquidation Amount
     (e) "" means $850,000,000
Minimum Amount
     (f) "" means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Designated Preferred Stock) the terms of which do not expressly provide that such class or series will rank senior or junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (in each case without regard to whether dividends accrue cumulatively or non-cumulatively).
Parity Stock
     (g) "" means the Original Issue Date.
Signing Date
     Part 4. . Holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock will be entitled to one vote for each such share on any matter on which holders of Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, including any action by written consent.
Certain Voting Matters
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. has caused this Certificate of Designations to be signed by Ricardo A. Anzalda, its Senior Vice President and Corporate Secretary, this 25 day of June, 2009.
th
 
ANNEX A
     Section 1. . Each share of Designated Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Designated Preferred Stock. The Designated Preferred Stock shall be perpetual, subject to the provisions of Section 5 of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations. The Designated Preferred Stock shall rank equally with Parity Stock and shall rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation.
General Matters
     Section 2. . As used herein with respect to Designated Preferred Stock:
Standard Definitions
     (a) "" means (i) during the period from the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the first day of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 5% per annum and (ii) from and after the first day of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 9% per annum.
Applicable Dividend Rate
     (b) "" means the "appropriate Federal banking agency" with respect to the Corporation as defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. Section 1813(q)), or any successor provision.
Appropriate Federal Banking Agency
     (c) "" means a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar transaction that requires the approval of the Corporation's stockholders.
Business Combination
     (d) "" means any day except Saturday, Sunday and any day on which banking institutions in the State of New York generally are authorized or required by law or other governmental actions to close.
Business Day
     (e) "" means the bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.
Bylaws
     (f) "" means the Certificate of Designations or comparable instrument relating to the Designated Preferred Stock, of which these Standard Provisions form a part, as it may be amended from time to time.
Certificate of Designations
     (g) "" means the Corporation's certificate or articles of incorporation, articles of association, or similar organizational document.
Charter
     (h) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
Dividend Period
     (i) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
Dividend Record Date
     (j) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
Liquidation Preference
 
     (k) "" means the date on which shares of Designated Preferred Stock are first issued.
Original Issue Date
     (l) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).
Preferred Director
     (m) "" means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Designated Preferred Stock.
Preferred Stock
     (n) "" means the sale and issuance for cash by the Corporation to persons other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries after the Original Issue Date of shares of perpetual Preferred Stock, Common Stock or any combination of such stock, that, in each case, qualify as and may be included in Tier 1 capital of the Corporation at the time of issuance under the applicable risk-based capital guidelines of the Corporation's Appropriate Federal Banking Agency (other than any such sales and issuances made pursuant to agreements or arrangements entered into, or pursuant to financing plans which were publicly announced, on or prior to October 13, 2008).
Qualified Equity Offering
     (o) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b).
Share Dilution Amount
     (p) "" mean these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations relating to the Designated Preferred Stock.
Standard Provisions
     (q) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a).
Successor Preferred Stock
     (r) "" means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders of Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote as specified in Sections 7(a) and 7(b) of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Parity Stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.
Voting Parity Stock
     Section 3. .
Dividends
     (a) . Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, on each share of Designated Preferred Stock if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, but only out of assets legally available therefor, cumulative cash dividends with respect to each Dividend Period (as defined below) at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Dividend Rate on (i) the Liquidation Amount per share of Designated Preferred Stock and (ii) the amount of accrued and unpaid dividends for any prior Dividend Period on such share of Designated Preferred Stock, if any. Such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from the Original Issue Date, shall compound on each subsequent Dividend Payment Date (, no dividends shall accrue on other dividends unless and until the first Dividend Payment Date for such other dividends has passed without such other dividends having been paid on such date) and shall be payable quarterly in arrears on each Dividend Payment Date, commencing with the first such Dividend Payment Date to occur at least 20 calendar days after the Original Issue Date. In the event that any Dividend Payment Date would otherwise fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the dividend payment due on that date will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as a result of that postponement. The period from and including any Dividend Payment Date to, but
Rate
i.e.
 
excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a "", that the initial Dividend Period shall be the period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date.
Dividend Period
provided
     Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock in respect of any Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The amount of dividends payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any date prior to the end of a Dividend Period, and for the initial Dividend Period, shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, and actual days elapsed over a 30-day month.
     Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Designated Preferred Stock as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day immediately preceding such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a ""). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.
Dividend Record Date
     Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on Designated Preferred Stock as specified in this Section 3 (subject to the other provisions of the Certificate of Designations).
     (b) . So long as any share of Designated Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than dividends payable solely in shares of Common Stock) or Parity Stock, subject to the immediately following paragraph in the case of Parity Stock, and no Common Stock, Junior Stock or Parity Stock shall be, directly or indirectly, purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full (or have been declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside for the benefit of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock on the applicable record date). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to (i) redemptions, purchases or other acquisitions of shares of Common Stock or other Junior Stock in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business (including purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount (as defined below) pursuant to a publicly announced repurchase plan) and consistent with past practice, that any purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount shall in no event exceed the Share Dilution Amount; (ii) purchases or other acquisitions by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation solely for the purpose of market-making, stabilization or customer facilitation transactions in Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of its business; (iii) purchases by a broker- dealer subsidiary of the Corporation of capital stock of the Corporation for resale pursuant to an offering by the Corporation of such capital stock underwritten by such broker-dealer subsidiary; (iv) any dividends or distributions of rights or Junior Stock in connection with a stockholders'
Priority of Dividends
provided
 
rights plan or any redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant to any stockholders' rights plan; (v) the acquisition by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries of record ownership in Junior Stock or Parity Stock for the beneficial ownership of any other persons (other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries), including as trustees or custodians; and (vi) the exchange or conversion of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock or of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock (with the same or lesser aggregate liquidation amount) or Junior Stock, in each case, solely to the extent required pursuant to binding contractual agreements entered into prior to the Signing Date or any subsequent agreement for the accelerated exercise, settlement or exchange thereof for Common Stock. "" means the increase in the number of diluted shares outstanding (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, and as measured from the date of the Corporation's consolidated financial statements most recently filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the Original Issue Date) resulting from the grant, vesting or exercise of equity-based compensation to employees and equitably adjusted for any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar transaction.
Share Dilution Amount
     When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable record date) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) in full upon Designated Preferred Stock and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on Designated Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared so that the respective amounts of such dividends declared shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued and unpaid dividends per share on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) (subject to their having been declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors out of legally available funds and including, in the case of Parity Stock that bears cumulative dividends, all accrued but unpaid dividends) bear to each other. If the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written notice to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock prior to such Dividend Payment Date.
pro rata
     Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.
 
     Section 4. .
Liquidation Rights
     (a) . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive for each share of Designated Preferred Stock, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, subject to the rights of any creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, payment in full in an amount equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) the amount of any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), whether or not declared, to the date of payment (such amounts collectively, the "").
Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation
Liquidation Preference
     (b) . If in any distribution described in Section 4(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay in full the amounts payable with respect to all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the holders of such other stock shall share ratably in any such distribution in proportion to the full respective distributions to which they are entitled.
Partial Payment
     (c) . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution has been paid in full, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.
Residual Distributions
     (d) . For purposes of this Section 4, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Designated Preferred Stock receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
     Section 5. .
Redemption
     (a) . Except as provided below, the Designated Preferred Stock may not be redeemed prior to the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date. On or after the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, out of funds legally available therefor, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as
Optional Redemption
 
otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption; that (x) the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) has received aggregate gross proceeds of not less than the Minimum Amount (plus the "Minimum Amount" as defined in the relevant certificate of designations for each other outstanding series of preferred stock of such successor that was originally issued to the United States Department of the Treasury (the "") in connection with the Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program) from one or more Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor), and (y) the aggregate redemption price of the Designated Preferred Stock (and any Successor Preferred Stock) redeemed pursuant to this paragraph may not exceed the aggregate net cash proceeds received by the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) from such Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor).
provided
Successor Preferred Stock
     The redemption price for any shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 3 above.
     (b) . The Designated Preferred Stock will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Designated Preferred Stock will have no right to require redemption or repurchase of any shares of Designated Preferred Stock.
No Sinking Fund
     (c) . Notice of every redemption of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Designated Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Designated Preferred Stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in
Notice of Redemption
 
book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each notice of redemption given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.
     (d) . In case of any redemption of part of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either or in such other manner as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.
Partial Redemption
pro rata
     (e) . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been deposited by the Corporation, in trust for the benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, with a bank or trust company doing business in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and having a capital and surplus of at least $500 million and selected by the Board of Directors, so as to be and continue to be available solely therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.
Effectiveness of Redemption
pro rata
     (f) . Shares of Designated Preferred Stock that are redeemed, repurchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock (that any such cancelled shares of Designated Preferred Stock may be reissued only as shares of any series of Preferred Stock other than Designated Preferred Stock).
Status of Redeemed Shares
provided
     Section 6. . Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares into any other securities.
Conversion
     Section 7. .
Voting Rights
     (a) . The holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by law.
General
 
     (b) . Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock have not been paid for an aggregate of six quarterly Dividend Periods or more, whether or not consecutive, the authorized number of directors of the Corporation shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have the right, with holders of shares of any one or more other classes or series of Voting Parity Stock outstanding at the time, voting together as a class, to elect two directors (hereinafter the "" and each a "") to fill such newly created directorships at the Corporation's next annual meeting of stockholders (or at a special meeting called for that purpose prior to such next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been declared and paid in full at which time such right shall terminate with respect to the Designated Preferred Stock, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned; that it shall be a qualification for election for any Preferred Director that the election of such Preferred Director shall not cause the Corporation to violate any corporate governance requirements of any securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors. Upon any termination of the right of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock as a class to vote for directors as provided above, the Preferred Directors shall cease to be qualified as directors, the term of office of all Preferred Directors then in office shall terminate immediately and the authorized number of directors shall be reduced by the number of Preferred Directors elected pursuant hereto. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time, with or without cause, and any vacancy created thereby may be filled, only by the affirmative vote of the holders a majority of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding voting separately as a class together with the holders of shares of Voting Parity Stock, to the extent the voting rights of such holders described above are then exercisable. If the office of any Preferred Director becomes vacant for any reason other than removal from office as aforesaid, the remaining Preferred Director may choose a successor who shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred.
Preferred Stock Directors
Preferred Directors
Preferred Director
provided
     (c) . So long as any shares of Designated Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Charter, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, voting as a separate class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:
Class Voting Rights as to Particular Matters
     (i) . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter to authorize or create or increase the authorized amount of, or any issuance of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of, any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;
Authorization of Senior Stock
 
     (ii) . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter (including, unless no vote on such merger or consolidation is required by Section 7(c)(iii) below, any amendment, alteration or repeal by means of a merger, consolidation or otherwise) so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Designated Preferred Stock; or
Amendment of Designated Preferred Stock
     (iii) . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Designated Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Designated Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of Designated Preferred Stock immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;
Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations
, , that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized Preferred Stock, including any increase in the authorized amount of Designated Preferred Stock necessary to satisfy preemptive or similar rights granted by the Corporation to other persons prior to the Signing Date, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, whether pursuant to preemptive or similar rights or otherwise, of any other series of Preferred Stock, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any other series of Preferred Stock, ranking equally with and/or junior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers, and shall not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock.
provided
however
     (d) . No vote or consent of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 5 above.
Changes after Provision for Redemption
     (e) . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules of the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to
Procedures for Voting and Consents
 
time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Charter, the Bylaws, and applicable law and the rules of any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which Designated Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time.
     Section 8. . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for Designated Preferred Stock may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Designated Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
Record Holders
     Section 9. . All notices or communications in respect of Designated Preferred Stock shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Charter or Bylaws or by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any similar facility, such notices may be given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock in any manner permitted by such facility.
Notices
     Section 10. . No share of Designated Preferred Stock shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.
No Preemptive Rights
     Section 11. . The Corporation shall replace any mutilated certificate at the holder's expense upon surrender of that certificate to the Corporation. The Corporation shall replace certificates that become destroyed, stolen or lost at the holder's expense upon delivery to the Corporation of reasonably satisfactory evidence that the certificate has been destroyed, stolen or lost, together with any indemnity that may be reasonably required by the Corporation.
Replacement Certificates
     Section 12. . The shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Charter or as provided by applicable law.
Other Rights

Exhibit 4.1
THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS INSTRUMENT HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED, OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE AND MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF EXCEPT WHILE A REGISTRATION STATEMENT RELATING THERETO IS IN EFFECT UNDER SUCH ACT AND APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS OR PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER SUCH ACT OR SUCH LAWS. THIS INSTRUMENT IS ISSUED SUBJECT TO THE RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER AND OTHER PROVISIONS OF A SECURITIES PURCHASE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE ISSUER OF THESE SECURITIES AND THE INVESTOR REFERRED TO THEREIN, A COPY OF WHICH IS ON FILE WITH THE ISSUER. THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS INSTRUMENT MAY NOT BE SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT IN COMPLIANCE WITH SAID AGREEMENT. ANY SALE OR OTHER TRANSFER NOT IN COMPLIANCE WITH SAID AGREEMENT WILL BE VOID.
     1. . Unless the context otherwise requires, when used herein the following terms shall have the meanings indicated.
Definitions
     "" has the meaning ascribed to it in the Purchase Agreement.
Affiliate
     "" means a procedure whereby two independent appraisers, one chosen by the Company and one by the Original Warrantholder, shall mutually agree upon the determinations then the subject of appraisal. Each party shall deliver a notice to the other appointing its appraiser within 15 days after the Appraisal Procedure is invoked. If within 30 days after appointment of the two appraisers they are unable to agree upon the amount in question, a third independent appraiser shall be chosen within 10 days thereafter by the mutual consent of such first two appraisers. The decision of the third appraiser so appointed and chosen shall be given within 30 days after the selection of such third appraiser. If three appraisers shall be appointed and the determination of one appraiser is disparate from the middle determination by more than twice the amount by which the other determination is disparate from the middle determination, then the determination of such appraiser shall be excluded, the remaining two determinations shall be averaged and such average shall be binding and conclusive upon the Company and the Original Warrantholder; otherwise, the average of all three determinations shall be binding upon the Company and the Original Warrantholder. The costs of conducting any Appraisal Procedure shall be borne by the Company.
Appraisal Procedure
 
     "" means the board of directors of the Company, including any duly authorized committee thereof.
Board of Directors
     "" means a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar transaction that requires the approval of the Company's stockholders.
Business Combination
     "" means any day except Saturday, Sunday and any day on which banking institutions in the State of New York generally are authorized or required by law or other governmental actions to close.
business day
     "" means (A) with respect to any Person that is a corporation or company, any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated) of capital or capital stock of such Person and (B) with respect to any Person that is not a corporation or company, any and all partnership or other equity interests of such Person.
Capital Stock
     "" means, with respect to any Person, its certificate or articles of incorporation, articles of association, or similar organizational document.
Charter
     "" has the meaning ascribed to it in the Purchase Agreement.
Common Stock
     "" means the Person whose name, corporate or other organizational form and jurisdiction of organization is set forth in Item 1 of Schedule A hereto.
Company
     "" has the meaning set forth in Section 13(B).
conversion
     "" has the meaning set forth in Section 13(B).
convertible securities
     "" has the meaning ascribed to it in the Purchase Agreement.
CPP
     "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor statute, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
     "" means the amount set forth in Item 2 of Schedule A hereto.
Exercise Price
     "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.
Expiration Time
     "" means, with respect to any security or other property, the fair market value of such security or other property as determined by the Board of Directors, acting in good faith or, with respect to Section 14, as determined by the Original Warrantholder acting in good faith. For so long as the Original Warrantholder holds this Warrant or any portion thereof, it may object in writing to the Board of Director's calculation of fair market value within 10 days of receipt of written notice thereof. If the Original Warrantholder and the Company are unable to agree on fair market value during the 10-day period following the delivery of the Original Warrantholder's objection, the Appraisal Procedure may be invoked by either party to determine Fair Market Value by delivering written notification thereof not later than the 30th day after delivery of the Original Warrantholder's objection.
Fair Market Value
     "" has the meaning ascribed to it in the Purchase Agreement.
Governmental Entities
 
     "" has the meaning set forth in Section 13(B).
Initial Number
     "" means the date set forth in Item 3 of Schedule A hereto.
Issue Date
     "" means, with respect to a particular security, on any given day, the last reported sale price regular way or, in case no such reported sale takes place on such day, the average of the last closing bid and ask prices regular way, in either case on the principal national securities exchange on which the applicable securities are listed or admitted to trading, or if not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the average of the closing bid and ask prices as furnished by two members of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. selected from time to time by the Company for that purpose. "Market Price" shall be determined without reference to after hours or extended hours trading. If such security is not listed and traded in a manner that the quotations referred to above are available for the period required hereunder, the Market Price per share of Common Stock shall be deemed to be (i) in the event that any portion of the Warrant is held by the Original Warrantholder, the fair market value per share of such security as determined in good faith by the Original Warrantholder or (ii) in all other circumstances, the fair market value per share of such security as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors in reliance on an opinion of a nationally recognized independent investment banking corporation retained by the Company for this purpose and certified in a resolution to the Warrantholder. For the purposes of determining the Market Price of the Common Stock on the "trading day" preceding, on or following the occurrence of an event, (i) that trading day shall be deemed to commence immediately after the regular scheduled closing time of trading on the New York Stock Exchange or, if trading is closed at an earlier time, such earlier time and (ii) that trading day shall end at the next regular scheduled closing time, or if trading is closed at an earlier time, such earlier time (for the avoidance of doubt, and as an example, if the Market Price is to be determined as of the last trading day preceding a specified event and the closing time of trading on a particular day is 4:00 p.m. and the specified event occurs at 5:00 p.m. on that day, the Market Price would be determined by reference to such 4:00 p.m. closing price).
Market Price
     "" means a regular quarterly cash dividend on shares of Common Stock out of surplus or net profits legally available therefor (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in effect from time to time), that Ordinary Cash Dividends shall not include any cash dividends paid subsequent to the Issue Date to the extent the aggregate per share dividends paid on the outstanding Common Stock in any quarter exceed the amount set forth in Item 4 of Schedule A hereto, as adjusted for any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar transaction.
Ordinary Cash Dividends
provided
     "" means the United States Department of the Treasury. Any actions specified to be taken by the Original Warrantholder hereunder may only be taken by such Person and not by any other Warrantholder.
Original Warrantholder
     "" has the meaning set forth in Section 13(B).
Permitted Transactions
     "" has the meaning given to it in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act and as used in Sections 13(d)(3) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act.
Person
 
     "" has the meaning set forth in Section 13(C).
Per Share Fair Market Value
     "" means the perpetual preferred stock issued to the Original Warrantholder on the Issue Date pursuant to the Purchase Agreement.
Preferred Shares
     "" means any purchase of shares of Common Stock by the Company or any Affiliate thereof pursuant to (A) any tender offer or exchange offer subject to Section 13(e) or 14(e) of the Exchange Act or Regulation 14E promulgated thereunder or (B) any other offer available to substantially all holders of Common Stock, in the case of both (A) or (B), whether for cash, shares of Capital Stock of the Company, other securities of the Company, evidences of indebtedness of the Company or any other Person or any other property (including, without limitation, shares of Capital Stock, other securities or evidences of indebtedness of a subsidiary), or any combination thereof, effected while this Warrant is outstanding. The "" of a Pro Rata Repurchase shall mean the date of acceptance of shares for purchase or exchange by the Company under any tender or exchange offer which is a Pro Rata Repurchase or the date of purchase with respect to any Pro Rata Repurchase that is not a tender or exchange offer.
Pro Rata Repurchases
Effective Date
     "" means the Securities Purchase Agreement  Standard Terms incorporated into the Letter Agreement, dated as of the date set forth in Item 5 of Schedule A hereto, as amended from time to time, between the Company and the United States Department of the Treasury (the ""), including all annexes and schedules thereto.
Purchase Agreement
Letter Agreement
     "" has the meaning ascribed to it in the Purchase Agreement.
Qualified Equity Offering
     "" with respect to the Warrantholder, means, to the extent applicable and required to permit the Warrantholder to exercise this Warrant for shares of Common Stock and to own such Common Stock without the Warrantholder being in violation of applicable law, rule or regulation, the receipt of any necessary approvals and authorizations of, filings and registrations with, notifications to, or expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period under, the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
Regulatory Approvals
     "" means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
     "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any successor statute, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
     "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.
Shares
     "" means (A) if the shares of Common Stock are not traded on any national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market, a business day or (B) if the shares of Common Stock are traded on any national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market, a business day on which such relevant exchange or quotation system is scheduled to be open for business and on which the shares of Common Stock (i) are not suspended from trading on any national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market for any period or periods aggregating one half hour or longer; and (ii) have traded at least once on the national or regional securities exchange or association or
trading day
 
over-the-counter market that is the primary market for the trading of the shares of Common Stock.
     "" means United States generally accepted accounting principles.
U.S. GAAP
     "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.
Warrantholder
     "" means this Warrant, issued pursuant to the Purchase Agreement.
Warrant
     2. . This certifies that, for value received, the United States Department of the Treasury or its permitted assigns (the "") is entitled, upon the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth, to acquire from the Company, in whole or in part, after the receipt of all applicable Regulatory Approvals, if any, up to an aggregate of the number of fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock set forth in Item 6 of Schedule A hereto, at a purchase price per share of Common Stock equal to the Exercise Price. The number of shares of Common Stock (the "") and the Exercise Price are subject to adjustment as provided herein, and all references to "Common Stock," "Shares" and "Exercise Price" herein shall be deemed to include any such adjustment or series of adjustments.
Number of Shares; Exercise Price
Warrantholder
Shares
     3. . Subject to Section 2, to the extent permitted by applicable laws and regulations, the right to purchase the Shares represented by this Warrant is exercisable, in whole or in part by the Warrantholder, at any time or from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Warrant by the Company on the date hereof, but in no event later than 5:00 p.m., New York City time on the tenth anniversary of the Issue Date (the ""), by (A) the surrender of this Warrant and Notice of Exercise annexed hereto, duly completed and executed on behalf of the Warrantholder, at the principal executive office of the Company located at the address set forth in Item 7 of Schedule A hereto (or such other office or agency of the Company in the United States as it may designate by notice in writing to the Warrantholder at the address of the Warrantholder appearing on the books of the Company), and (B) payment of the Exercise Price for the Shares thereby purchased:
Exercise of Warrant; Term
Expiration Time
          (i) by having the Company withhold, from the shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be delivered to the Warrantholder upon such exercise, shares of Common stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrant equal in value to the aggregate Exercise Price as to which this Warrant is so exercised based on the Market Price of the Common Stock on the trading day on which this Warrant is exercised and the Notice of Exercise is delivered to the Company pursuant to this Section 3, or
          (ii) with the consent of both the Company and the Warrantholder, by tendering in cash, by certified or cashier's check payable to the order of the Company, or by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account designated by the Company.
          If the Warrantholder does not exercise this Warrant in its entirety, the Warrantholder will be entitled to receive from the Company within a reasonable time, and in any event not exceeding three business days, a new warrant in substantially identical form for the purchase of that number of Shares equal to the difference between the number of Shares subject to this Warrant and the number of Shares as to which this Warrant is so exercised.
 
Notwithstanding anything in this Warrant to the contrary, the Warrantholder hereby acknowledges and agrees that its exercise of this Warrant for Shares is subject to the condition that the Warrantholder will have first received any applicable Regulatory Approvals.
     4. . Certificates for Shares issued upon exercise of this Warrant will be issued in such name or names as the Warrantholder may designate and will be delivered to such named Person or Persons within a reasonable time, not to exceed three business days after the date on which this Warrant has been duly exercised in accordance with the terms of this Warrant. The Company hereby represents and warrants that any Shares issued upon the exercise of this Warrant in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 will be duly and validly authorized and issued, fully paid and nonassessable and free from all taxes, liens and charges (other than liens or charges created by the Warrantholder, income and franchise taxes incurred in connection with the exercise of the Warrant or taxes in respect of any transfer occurring contemporaneously therewith). The Company agrees that the Shares so issued will be deemed to have been issued to the Warrantholder as of the close of business on the date on which this Warrant and payment of the Exercise Price are delivered to the Company in accordance with the terms of this Warrant, notwithstanding that the stock transfer books of the Company may then be closed or certificates representing such Shares may not be actually delivered on such date. The Company will at all times reserve and keep available, out of its authorized but unissued Common Stock, solely for the purpose of providing for the exercise of this Warrant, the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock then issuable upon exercise of this Warrant at any time. The Company will (A) procure, at its sole expense, the listing of the Shares issuable upon exercise of this Warrant at any time, subject to issuance or notice of issuance, on all principal stock exchanges on which the Common Stock is then listed or traded and (B) maintain such listings of such Shares at all times after issuance. The Company will use reasonable best efforts to ensure that the Shares may be issued without violation of any applicable law or regulation or of any requirement of any securities exchange on which the Shares are listed or traded.
Issuance of Shares; Authorization; Listing
     5. . No fractional Shares or scrip representing fractional Shares shall be issued upon any exercise of this Warrant. In lieu of any fractional Share to which the Warrantholder would otherwise be entitled, the Warrantholder shall be entitled to receive a cash payment equal to the Market Price of the Common Stock on the last trading day preceding the date of exercise less the pro-rated Exercise Price for such fractional share.
No Fractional Shares or Scrip
     6. . This Warrant does not entitle the Warrantholder to any voting rights or other rights as a stockholder of the Company prior to the date of exercise hereof. The Company will at no time close its transfer books against transfer of this Warrant in any manner which interferes with the timely exercise of this Warrant.
No Rights as Stockholders; Transfer Books
     7. . Issuance of certificates for Shares to the Warrantholder upon the exercise of this Warrant shall be made without charge to the Warrantholder for any issue or transfer tax or other incidental expense in respect of the issuance of such certificates, all of which taxes and expenses shall be paid by the Company.
Charges, Taxes and Expenses
     8. .
Transfer/Assignment
 
     (A) Subject to compliance with clause (B) of this Section 8, this Warrant and all rights hereunder are transferable, in whole or in part, upon the books of the Company by the registered holder hereof in person or by duly authorized attorney, and a new warrant shall be made and delivered by the Company, of the same tenor and date as this Warrant but registered in the name of one or more transferees, upon surrender of this Warrant, duly endorsed, to the office or agency of the Company described in Section 3. All expenses (other than stock transfer taxes) and other charges payable in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of the new warrants pursuant to this Section 8 shall be paid by the Company.
     (B) The transfer of the Warrant and the Shares issued upon exercise of the Warrant are subject to the restrictions set forth in Section 4.4 of the Purchase Agreement. If and for so long as required by the Purchase Agreement, this Warrant shall contain the legends as set forth in Sections 4.2(a) and 4.2(b) of the Purchase Agreement.
     9. . This Warrant is exchangeable, upon the surrender hereof by the Warrantholder to the Company, for a new warrant or warrants of like tenor and representing the right to purchase the same aggregate number of Shares. The Company shall maintain a registry showing the name and address of the Warrantholder as the registered holder of this Warrant. This Warrant may be surrendered for exchange or exercise in accordance with its terms, at the office of the Company, and the Company shall be entitled to rely in all respects, prior to written notice to the contrary, upon such registry.
Exchange and Registry of Warrant
     10. . Upon receipt by the Company of evidence reasonably satisfactory to it of the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of this Warrant, and in the case of any such loss, theft or destruction, upon receipt of a bond, indemnity or security reasonably satisfactory to the Company, or, in the case of any such mutilation, upon surrender and cancellation of this Warrant, the Company shall make and deliver, in lieu of such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Warrant, a new Warrant of like tenor and representing the right to purchase the same aggregate number of Shares as provided for in such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Warrant.
Loss, Theft, Destruction or Mutilation of Warrant
     11. . If the last or appointed day for the taking of any action or the expiration of any right required or granted herein shall not be a business day, then such action may be taken or such right may be exercised on the next succeeding day that is a business day.
Saturdays, Sundays, Holidays, etc
     12. . The Company covenants that it will use its reasonable best efforts to timely file all reports and other documents required to be filed by it under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC thereunder (or, if the Company is not required to file such reports, it will, upon the request of any Warrantholder, make publicly available such information as necessary to permit sales pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act), and it will use reasonable best efforts to take such further action as any Warrantholder may reasonably request, in each case to the extent required from time to time to enable such holder to, if permitted by the terms of this Warrant and the Purchase Agreement, sell this Warrant without registration under the Securities Act within the limitation of the exemptions provided by (A) Rule 144 under the Securities Act, as such rule may be amended from time to time, or (B) any successor rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the
Rule 144 Information
 
SEC. Upon the written request of any Warrantholder, the Company will deliver to such Warrantholder a written statement that it has complied with such requirements.
     13. . The Exercise Price and the number of Shares issuable upon exercise of this Warrant shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as follows; , that if more than one subsection of this Section 13 is applicable to a single event, the subsection shall be applied that produces the largest adjustment and no single event shall cause an adjustment under more than one subsection of this Section 13 so as to result in duplication:
Adjustments and Other Rights
provided
     (A) . If the Company shall (i) declare and pay a dividend or make a distribution on its Common Stock in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide or reclassify the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a greater number of shares, or (iii) combine or reclassify the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, the number of Shares issuable upon exercise of this Warrant at the time of the record date for such dividend or distribution or the effective date of such subdivision, combination or reclassification shall be proportionately adjusted so that the Warrantholder after such date shall be entitled to purchase the number of shares of Common Stock which such holder would have owned or been entitled to receive in respect of the shares of Common Stock subject to this Warrant after such date had this Warrant been exercised immediately prior to such date. In such event, the Exercise Price in effect at the time of the record date for such dividend or distribution or the effective date of such subdivision, combination or reclassification shall be adjusted to the number obtained by dividing (x) the product of (1) the number of Shares issuable upon the exercise of this Warrant before such adjustment and (2) the Exercise Price in effect immediately prior to the record or effective date, as the case may be, for the dividend, distribution, subdivision, combination or reclassification giving rise to this adjustment by (y) the new number of Shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrant determined pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence.
Stock Splits, Subdivisions, Reclassifications or Combinations
     (B) . Until the earlier of (i) the date on which the Original Warrantholder no longer holds this Warrant or any portion thereof and (ii) the third anniversary of the Issue Date, if the Company shall issue shares of Common Stock (or rights or warrants or other securities exercisable or convertible into or exchangeable (collectively, a "") for shares of Common Stock) (collectively, "") (other than in Permitted Transactions (as defined below) or a transaction to which subsection (A) of this Section 13 is applicable) without consideration or at a consideration per share (or having a conversion price per share) that is less than 90% of the Market Price on the last trading day preceding the date of the agreement on pricing such shares (or such convertible securities) then, in such event:
Certain Issuances of Common Shares or Convertible Securities
conversion
convertible securities
(A) the number of Shares issuable upon the exercise of this Warrant immediately prior to the date of the agreement on pricing of such shares (or of such convertible securities) (the "") shall be increased to the number obtained by multiplying the Initial Number by a fraction (A) the numerator of which shall be the sum of (x) the number of shares of Common Stock of the Company outstanding on such date and (y) the number of additional shares of Common Stock issued (or into which convertible securities may be exercised or convert)
Initial Number
 
and (B) the denominator of which shall be the sum of (I) the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on such date and (II) the number of shares of Common Stock which the aggregate consideration receivable by the Company for the total number of shares of Common Stock so issued (or into which convertible securities may be exercised or convert) would purchase at the Market Price on the last trading day preceding the date of the agreement on pricing such shares (or such convertible securities); and
(B) the Exercise Price payable upon exercise of the Warrant shall be adjusted by multiplying such Exercise Price in effect immediately prior to the date of the agreement on pricing of such shares (or of such convertible securities) by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of this Warrant prior to such date and the denominator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of this Warrant immediately after the adjustment described in clause (A) above.
     For purposes of the foregoing, the aggregate consideration receivable by the Company in connection with the issuance of such shares of Common Stock or convertible securities shall be deemed to be equal to the sum of the net offering price (including the Fair Market Value of any non-cash consideration and after deduction of any related expenses payable to third parties) of all such securities plus the minimum aggregate amount, if any, payable upon exercise or conversion of any such convertible securities into shares of Common Stock; and "" shall mean issuances (i) as consideration for or to fund the acquisition of businesses and/or related assets, (ii) in connection with employee benefit plans and compensation related arrangements in the ordinary course and consistent with past practice approved by the Board of Directors, (iii) in connection with a public or broadly marketed offering and sale of Common Stock or convertible securities for cash conducted by the Company or its affiliates pursuant to registration under the Securities Act or Rule 144A thereunder on a basis consistent with capital raising transactions by comparable financial institutions and (iv) in connection with the exercise of preemptive rights on terms existing as of the Issue Date. Any adjustment made pursuant to this Section 13(B) shall become effective immediately upon the date of such issuance.
Permitted Transactions
     (C) . In case the Company shall fix a record date for the making of a distribution to all holders of shares of its Common Stock of securities, evidences of indebtedness, assets, cash, rights or warrants (excluding Ordinary Cash Dividends, dividends of its Common Stock and other dividends or distributions referred to in Section 13(A)), in each such case, the Exercise Price in effect prior to such record date shall be reduced immediately thereafter to the price determined by multiplying the Exercise Price in effect immediately prior to the reduction by the quotient of (x) the Market Price of the Common Stock on the last trading day preceding the first date on which the Common Stock trades regular way on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading without the right to receive such distribution, minus the amount of cash and/or the Fair Market Value of the securities, evidences of indebtedness, assets, rights or warrants to be so distributed in respect of one share of Common Stock (such amount and/or Fair Market Value, the "") divided by (y) such Market Price on such date specified in clause (x); such adjustment shall be made successively whenever such a record date is fixed. In such event, the number of Shares issuable upon the exercise of this Warrant shall be increased to the number
Other Distributions
Per Share Fair Market Value
 
obtained by dividing (x) the product of (1) the number of Shares issuable upon the exercise of this Warrant before such adjustment, and (2) the Exercise Price in effect immediately prior to the distribution giving rise to this adjustment by (y) the new Exercise Price determined in accordance with the immediately preceding sentence. In the case of adjustment for a cash dividend that is, or is coincident with, a regular quarterly cash dividend, the Per Share Fair Market Value would be reduced by the per share amount of the portion of the cash dividend that would constitute an Ordinary Cash Dividend. In the event that such distribution is not so made, the Exercise Price and the number of Shares issuable upon exercise of this Warrant then in effect shall be readjusted, effective as of the date when the Board of Directors determines not to distribute such shares, evidences of indebtedness, assets, rights, cash or warrants, as the case may be, to the Exercise Price that would then be in effect and the number of Shares that would then be issuable upon exercise of this Warrant if such record date had not been fixed.
     (D) . In case the Company effects a Pro Rata Repurchase of Common Stock, then the Exercise Price shall be reduced to the price determined by multiplying the Exercise Price in effect immediately prior to the Effective Date of such Pro Rata Repurchase by a fraction of which the numerator shall be (i) the product of (x) the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately before such Pro Rata Repurchase and (y) the Market Price of a share of Common Stock on the trading day immediately preceding the first public announcement by the Company or any of its Affiliates of the intent to effect such Pro Rata Repurchase, minus (ii) the aggregate purchase price of the Pro Rata Repurchase, and of which the denominator shall be the product of (i) the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to such Pro Rata Repurchase minus the number of shares of Common Stock so repurchased and (ii) the Market Price per share of Common Stock on the trading day immediately preceding the first public announcement by the Company or any of its Affiliates of the intent to effect such Pro Rata Repurchase. In such event, the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon the exercise of this Warrant shall be increased to the number obtained by dividing (x) the product of (1) the number of Shares issuable upon the exercise of this Warrant before such adjustment, and (2) the Exercise Price in effect immediately prior to the Pro Rata Repurchase giving rise to this adjustment by (y) the new Exercise Price determined in accordance with the immediately preceding sentence. For the avoidance of doubt, no increase to the Exercise Price or decrease in the number of Shares issuable upon exercise of this Warrant shall be made pursuant to this Section 13(D).
Certain Repurchases of Common Stock
     (E) . In case of any Business Combination or reclassification of Common Stock (other than a reclassification of Common Stock referred to in Section 13(A)), the Warrantholder's right to receive Shares upon exercise of this Warrant shall be converted into the right to exercise this Warrant to acquire the number of shares of stock or other securities or property (including cash) which the Common Stock issuable (at the time of such Business Combination or reclassification) upon exercise of this Warrant immediately prior to such Business Combination or reclassification would have been entitled to receive upon consummation of such Business Combination or reclassification; and in any such case, if necessary, the provisions set forth herein with respect to the rights and interests thereafter of the Warrantholder shall be appropriately adjusted so as to be applicable, as nearly as may reasonably be, to the Warrantholder's right to exercise this Warrant in exchange for any shares of stock or other securities or property pursuant to this paragraph. In determining the kind and amount of stock, securities or the property receivable upon exercise of this Warrant following the
Business Combinations
 
consummation of such Business Combination, if the holders of Common Stock have the right to elect the kind or amount of consideration receivable upon consummation of such Business Combination, then the consideration that the Warrantholder shall be entitled to receive upon exercise shall be deemed to be the types and amounts of consideration received by the majority of all holders of the shares of common stock that affirmatively make an election (or of all such holders if none make an election).
     (F) . All calculations under this Section 13 shall be made to the nearest one-tenth (1/10th) of a cent or to the nearest one- hundredth (1/100th) of a share, as the case may be. Any provision of this Section 13 to the contrary notwithstanding, no adjustment in the Exercise Price or the number of Shares into which this Warrant is exercisable shall be made if the amount of such adjustment would be less than $0.01 or one-tenth (1/10th) of a share of Common Stock, but any such amount shall be carried forward and an adjustment with respect thereto shall be made at the time of and together with any subsequent adjustment which, together with such amount and any other amount or amounts so carried forward, shall aggregate $0.01 or 1/10th of a share of Common Stock, or more.
Rounding of Calculations; Minimum Adjustments
     (G) . In any case in which the provisions of this Section 13 shall require that an adjustment shall become effective immediately after a record date for an event, the Company may defer until the occurrence of such event (i) issuing to the Warrantholder of this Warrant exercised after such record date and before the occurrence of such event the additional shares of Common Stock issuable upon such exercise by reason of the adjustment required by such event over and above the shares of Common Stock issuable upon such exercise before giving effect to such adjustment and (ii) paying to such Warrantholder any amount of cash in lieu of a fractional share of Common Stock; , that the Company upon request shall deliver to such Warrantholder a due bill or other appropriate instrument evidencing such Warrantholder's right to receive such additional shares, and such cash, upon the occurrence of the event requiring such adjustment.
Timing of Issuance of Additional Common Stock Upon Certain Adjustments
provided, however
     (H) . In the event the Company (or any successor by Business Combination) completes one or more Qualified Equity Offerings on or prior to December 31, 2009 that result in the Company (or any such successor ) receiving aggregate gross proceeds of not less than 100% of the aggregate liquidation preference of the Preferred Shares (and any preferred stock issued by any such successor to the Original Warrantholder under the CPP), the number of shares of Common Stock underlying the portion of this Warrant then held by the Original Warrantholder shall be thereafter reduced by a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the product of (i) 0.5 and (ii) the number of shares underlying the Warrant on the Issue Date (adjusted to take into account all other theretofore made adjustments pursuant to this Section 13).
Completion of Qualified Equity Offering
     (I) . For so long as the Original Warrantholder holds this Warrant or any portion thereof, if any event occurs as to which the provisions of this Section 13 are not strictly applicable or, if strictly applicable, would not, in the good faith judgment of the Board of Directors of the Company, fairly and adequately protect the purchase rights of the Warrants in accordance with the essential intent and principles of such provisions, then the Board of
Other Events
 
Directors shall make such adjustments in the application of such provisions, in accordance with such essential intent and principles, as shall be reasonably necessary, in the good faith opinion of the Board of Directors, to protect such purchase rights as aforesaid. The Exercise Price or the number of Shares into which this Warrant is exercisable shall not be adjusted in the event of a change in the par value of the Common Stock or a change in the jurisdiction of incorporation of the Company.
     (J) . Whenever the Exercise Price or the number of Shares into which this Warrant is exercisable shall be adjusted as provided in Section 13, the Company shall forthwith file at the principal office of the Company a statement showing in reasonable detail the facts requiring such adjustment and the Exercise Price that shall be in effect and the number of Shares into which this Warrant shall be exercisable after such adjustment, and the Company shall also cause a copy of such statement to be sent by mail, first class postage prepaid, to each Warrantholder at the address appearing in the Company's records.
Statement Regarding Adjustments
     (K) . In the event that the Company shall propose to take any action of the type described in this Section 13 (but only if the action of the type described in this Section 13 would result in an adjustment in the Exercise Price or the number of Shares into which this Warrant is exercisable or a change in the type of securities or property to be delivered upon exercise of this Warrant), the Company shall give notice to the Warrantholder, in the manner set forth in Section 13(J), which notice shall specify the record date, if any, with respect to any such action and the approximate date on which such action is to take place. Such notice shall also set forth the facts with respect thereto as shall be reasonably necessary to indicate the effect on the Exercise Price and the number, kind or class of shares or other securities or property which shall be deliverable upon exercise of this Warrant. In the case of any action which would require the fixing of a record date, such notice shall be given at least 10 days prior to the date so fixed, and in case of all other action, such notice shall be given at least 15 days prior to the taking of such proposed action. Failure to give such notice, or any defect therein, shall not affect the legality or validity of any such action.
Notice of Adjustment Event
     (L) . As a condition precedent to the taking of any action which would require an adjustment pursuant to this Section 13, the Company shall take any action which may be necessary, including obtaining regulatory, New York Stock Exchange, NASDAQ Stock Market or other applicable national securities exchange or stockholder approvals or exemptions, in order that the Company may thereafter validly and legally issue as fully paid and nonassessable all shares of Common Stock that the Warrantholder is entitled to receive upon exercise of this Warrant pursuant to this Section 13.
Proceedings Prior to Any Action Requiring Adjustment
     (M) . Any adjustments pursuant to this Section 13 shall be made successively whenever an event referred to herein shall occur. If an adjustment in Exercise Price made hereunder would reduce the Exercise Price to an amount below par value of the Common Stock, then such adjustment in Exercise Price made hereunder shall reduce the Exercise Price to the par value of the Common Stock.
Adjustment Rules
     14. . At any time following the date on which the shares of Common Stock of the Company are no longer listed or admitted to trading on a national securities exchange (other than in connection with any Business Combination), the Original Warrantholder may
Exchange
 
cause the Company to exchange all or a portion of this Warrant for an economic interest (to be determined by the Original Warrantholder after consultation with the Company) of the Company classified as permanent equity under U.S. GAAP having a value equal to the Fair Market Value of the portion of the Warrant so exchanged. The Original Warrantholder shall calculate any Fair Market Value required to be calculated pursuant to this Section 14, which shall not be subject to the Appraisal Procedure.
     15. . The Company will not, by amendment of its Charter or through any reorganization, transfer of assets, consolidation, merger, dissolution, issue or sale of securities or any other voluntary action, avoid or seek to avoid the observance or performance of any of the terms to be observed or performed hereunder by the Company, but will at all times in good faith assist in the carrying out of all the provisions of this Warrant and in taking of all such action as may be necessary or appropriate in order to protect the rights of the Warrantholder.
No Impairment
     16. .
Governing Law
This Warrant will be governed by and construed in accordance with the federal law of the United States if and to the extent such law is applicable, and otherwise in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such State. Each of the Company and the Warrantholder agrees (a) to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia for any civil action, suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Warrant or the transactions contemplated hereby, and (b) that notice may be served upon the Company at the address in Section 20 below and upon the Warrantholder at the address for the Warrantholder set forth in the registry maintained by the Company pursuant to Section 9 hereof. To the extent permitted by applicable law, each of the Company and the Warrantholder hereby unconditionally waives trial by jury in any civil legal action or proceeding relating to the Warrant or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby.
     17. . This Warrant shall be binding upon any successors or assigns of the Company.
Binding Effect
     18. . This Warrant may be amended and the observance of any term of this Warrant may be waived only with the written consent of the Company and the Warrantholder.
Amendments
     19. . The Company agrees that it will not take any action which would entitle the Warrantholder to an adjustment of the Exercise Price if the total number of shares of Common Stock issuable after such action upon exercise of this Warrant, together with all shares of Common Stock then outstanding and all shares of Common Stock then issuable upon the exercise of all outstanding options, warrants, conversion and other rights, would exceed the total number of shares of Common Stock then authorized by its Charter.
Prohibited Actions
     20. . Any notice, request, instruction or other document to be given hereunder by any party to the other will be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given (a) on the date of delivery if delivered personally, or by facsimile, upon confirmation of receipt, or (b) on the second business day following the date of dispatch if delivered by a recognized next day courier service. All notices hereunder shall be delivered as set forth in Item 8 of Schedule A
Notices
 
hereto, or pursuant to such other instructions as may be designated in writing by the party to receive such notice.
     21. . This Warrant, the forms attached hereto and Schedule A hereto (the terms of which are incorporated by reference herein), and the Letter Agreement (including all documents incorporated therein), contain the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior and contemporaneous arrangements or undertakings with respect thereto.
Entire Agreement
 
          The undersigned, pursuant to the provisions set forth in the attached Warrant, hereby agrees to subscribe for and purchase the number of shares of the Common Stock set forth below covered by such Warrant. The undersigned, in accordance with Section 3 of the Warrant, hereby agrees to pay the aggregate Exercise Price for such shares of Common Stock in the manner set forth below. A new warrant evidencing the remaining shares of Common Stock covered by such Warrant, but not yet subscribed for and purchased, if any, should be issued in the name set forth below.
Number of Shares of Common Stock
                    
                    
Method of Payment of Exercise Price (note if cashless exercise pursuant to Section 3(i) of the Warrant or cash exercise pursuant to Section 3(ii) of the Warrant, with consent of the Company and the Warrantholder)
                    
                    
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Warrant to be duly executed by a duly authorized officer.
Dated: June 26, 2009
 
SCHEDULE A
Name: The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. Corporate or other organizational form: Corporation Jurisdiction of organization: Delaware
Item 1
Exercise Price: $9.79
Item 2
Issue Date: June 26, 2009
Item 3
Amount of last dividend declared prior to the Issue Date: Quarterly dividend of $0.05 per share of common stock
Item 4
Date of Letter Agreement between the Company and the United States Department of the Treasury: June 26, 2009
Item 5
Number of shares of Common Stock: 52,093,973
Item 6
Company's address:  The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.
Item 7
One Hartford Plaza Hartford, CT 06155
Notice information:  The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.
Item 8
One Hartford Plaza Hartford, CT 06155 Attention: Alan J. Kreczko Facsimile: (860) 547-4721

Exhibit 10.1
UST Sequence # 830               
Dear Ladies and Gentlemen:
     The company set forth on the signature page hereto (the "") intends to issue in a private placement the number of shares of a series of its preferred stock set forth on Schedule A hereto (the "") and a warrant to purchase the number of shares of its common stock set forth on Schedule A hereto (the "Warrant" and, together with the Preferred Shares, the "") and the United States Department of the Treasury (the "") intends to purchase from the Company the Purchased Securities.
Company
Preferred Shares
Purchased Securities
Investor
     The purpose of this letter agreement is to confirm the terms and conditions of the purchase by the Investor of the Purchased Securities. Except to the extent supplemented or superseded by the terms set forth herein or in the Schedules hereto, the provisions contained in the Securities Purchase Agreement  Standard Terms attached hereto as Exhibit A (the "") are incorporated by reference herein. Terms that are defined in the Securities Purchase Agreement are used in this letter agreement as so defined. In the event of any inconsistency between this letter agreement and the Securities Purchase Agreement, the terms of this letter agreement shall govern.
Securities Purchase Agreement
     Each of the Company and the Investor hereby confirms its agreement with the other party with respect to the issuance by the Company of the Purchased Securities and the purchase by the Investor of the Purchased Securities pursuant to this letter agreement and the Securities Purchase Agreement on the terms specified on Schedule A hereto.
     This letter agreement (including the Schedules hereto) and the Securities Purchase Agreement (including the Annexes thereto) and the Warrant constitute the entire agreement, and supersede all other prior agreements, understandings, representations and warranties, both written and oral, between the parties, with respect to the subject matter hereof. This letter agreement constitutes the "Letter Agreement" referred to in the Securities Purchase Agreement.
     This letter agreement may be executed in any number of separate counterparts, each such counterpart being deemed to be an original instrument, and all such counterparts will together constitute the same agreement. Executed signature pages to this letter agreement may be delivered by facsimile and such facsimiles will be deemed as sufficient as if actual signature pages had been delivered.
 
     In witness whereof, this letter agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the duly authorized representatives of the parties hereto as of the date written below.
Date: June 26, 2009
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
 
LIST OF ANNEXES ANNEX A: FORM OF CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS FOR PREFERRED STOCK
ANNEX B: FORM OF WAIVER
ANNEX C: FORM OF OPINION
ANNEX D: FORM OF WARRANT
 
INDEX OF DEFINED TERMS
 
 
     WHEREAS, the United States Department of the Treasury (the "") may from time to time agree to purchase shares of preferred stock and warrants from eligible financial institutions which elect to participate in the Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program ("");
Investor
CPP
     WHEREAS, an eligible financial institution electing to participate in the CPP and issue securities to the Investor (referred to herein as the "") shall enter into a letter agreement (the "") with the Investor which incorporates this Securities Purchase Agreement  Standard Terms;
Company
Letter Agreement
     WHEREAS, the Company agrees to expand the flow of credit to U.S. consumers and businesses on competitive terms to promote the sustained growth and vitality of the U.S. economy;
     WHEREAS, the Company agrees to work diligently, under existing programs, to modify the terms of residential mortgages as appropriate to strengthen the health of the U.S. housing market;
     WHEREAS, the Company intends to issue in a private placement the number of shares of the series of its Preferred Stock ("") set forth on to the Letter Agreement (the "") and a warrant to purchase the number of shares of its Common Stock ("") set forth on to the Letter Agreement (the "") (the "" and, together with the Preferred Shares, the "") and the Investor intends to purchase (the "") from the Company the Purchased Securities; and
Preferred Stock
Schedule A
Preferred Shares
Common Stock
Schedule A
Initial Warrant Shares
Warrant
Purchased Securities
Purchase
     WHEREAS, the Purchase will be governed by this Securities Purchase Agreement  Standard Terms and the Letter Agreement, including the schedules thereto (the ""), specifying additional terms of the Purchase. This Securities Purchase Agreement  Standard Terms (including the Annexes hereto) and the Letter Agreement (including the Schedules thereto) are together referred to as this "Agreement". All references in this Securities Purchase Agreement  Standard Terms to "Schedules" are to the Schedules attached to the Letter Agreement.
Schedules
     , in consideration of the premises, and of the representations, warranties, covenants and agreements set forth herein, the parties agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
     1.1 . On the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, the Company agrees to sell to the Investor, and the Investor agrees to purchase from the Company, at the Closing (as hereinafter defined), the Purchased Securities for the price set forth on (the "").
Purchase
Schedule A
Purchase Price
 
     1.2 .
Closing
     (a) On the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, the closing of the Purchase (the "") will take place at the location specified in , at the time and on the date set forth in or as soon as practicable thereafter, or at such other place, time and date as shall be agreed between the Company and the Investor. The time and date on which the Closing occurs is referred to in this Agreement as the "".
Closing
Schedule A
Schedule A
Closing Date
     (b) Subject to the fulfillment or waiver of the conditions to the Closing in this Section 1.2, at the Closing the Company will deliver the Preferred Shares and the Warrant, in each case as evidenced by one or more certificates dated the Closing Date and bearing appropriate legends as hereinafter provided for, in exchange for payment in full of the Purchase Price by wire transfer of immediately available United States funds to a bank account designated by the Company on .
Schedule A
     (c) The respective obligations of each of the Investor and the Company to consummate the Purchase are subject to the fulfillment (or waiver by the Investor and the Company, as applicable) prior to the Closing of the conditions that (i) any approvals or authorizations of all United States and other governmental, regulatory or judicial authorities (collectively, "") required for the consummation of the Purchase shall have been obtained or made in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to each party and shall be in full force and effect and all waiting periods required by United States and other applicable law, if any, shall have expired and (ii) no provision of any applicable United States or other law and no judgment, injunction, order or decree of any Governmental Entity shall prohibit the purchase and sale of the Purchased Securities as contemplated by this Agreement.
Governmental Entities
     (d) The obligation of the Investor to consummate the Purchase is also subject to the fulfillment (or waiver by the Investor) at or prior to the Closing of each of the following conditions:
     (i) (A) the representations and warranties of the Company set forth in (x) Section 2.2(g) of this Agreement shall be true and correct in all respects as though made on and as of the Closing Date, (y) Sections 2.2(a) through (f) shall be true and correct in all material respects as though made on and as of the Closing Date (other than representations and warranties that by their terms speak as of another date, which representations and warranties shall be true and correct in all material respects as of such other date) and (z) Sections 2.2(h) through (v) (disregarding all qualifications or limitations set forth in such representations and warranties as to "materiality", "Company Material Adverse Effect" and words of similar import) shall be true and correct as though made on and as of the Closing Date (other than representations and warranties that by their terms speak as of another date, which representations and warranties shall be true and correct as of such other date), except to the extent that the failure of such representations and warranties referred to in this Section 1.2(d)(i)(A)(z) to be so true and correct, individually or in the aggregate, does not have and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect and (B) the Company shall have performed in all material respects all obligations required to be performed by it under this Agreement at or prior to the Closing;
 
     (ii) the Investor shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of the Company by a senior executive officer certifying to the effect that the conditions set forth in Section 1.2(d)(i) have been satisfied;
     (iii) the Company shall have duly adopted and filed with the Secretary of State of its jurisdiction of organization or other applicable Governmental Entity the amendment to its certificate or articles of incorporation, articles of association, or similar organizational document ("") in substantially the form attached hereto as (the "") and such filing shall have been accepted;
Charter
Annex A
Certificate of Designations
     (iv) (A) the Company shall have effected such changes to its compensation, bonus, incentive and other benefit plans, arrangements and agreements (including golden parachute, severance and employment agreements) (collectively, "") with respect to its Senior Executive Officers (and to the extent necessary for such changes to be legally enforceable, each of its Senior Executive Officers shall have duly consented in writing to such changes), as may be necessary, during the period that the Investor owns any debt or equity securities of the Company acquired pursuant to this Agreement or the Warrant, in order to comply with Section 111(b) of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 ("") as implemented by guidance or regulation thereunder that has been issued and is in effect as of the Closing Date, and (B) the Investor shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of the Company by a senior executive officer certifying to the effect that the condition set forth in Section 1.2(d)(iv)(A) has been satisfied;
Benefit Plans
EESA
     (v) each of the Company's Senior Executive Officers shall have delivered to the Investor a written waiver in the form attached hereto as releasing the Investor from any claims that such Senior Executive Officers may otherwise have as a result of the issuance, on or prior to the Closing Date, of any regulations which require the modification of, and the agreement of the Company hereunder to modify, the terms of any Benefit Plans with respect to its Senior Executive Officers to eliminate any provisions of such Benefit Plans that would not be in compliance with the requirements of Section 111(b) of the EESA as implemented by guidance or regulation thereunder that has been issued and is in effect as of the Closing Date;
Annex B
     (vi) the Company shall have delivered to the Investor a written opinion from counsel to the Company (which may be internal counsel), addressed to the Investor and dated as of the Closing Date, in substantially the form attached hereto as ;
Annex C
     (vii) the Company shall have delivered certificates in proper form or, with the prior consent of the Investor, evidence of shares in book-entry form, evidencing the Preferred Shares to Investor or its designee(s); and
     (viii) the Company shall have duly executed the Warrant in substantially the form attached hereto as and delivered such executed Warrant to the Investor or its designee(s).
Annex D
 
     1.3 . When a reference is made in this Agreement to "Recitals," "Articles," "Sections," or "Annexes" such reference shall be to a Recital, Article or Section of, or Annex to, this Securities Purchase Agreement  Standard Terms, and a reference to "Schedules" shall be to a Schedule to the Letter Agreement, in each case, unless otherwise indicated. The terms defined in the singular have a comparable meaning when used in the plural, and vice versa. References to "herein", "hereof", "hereunder" and the like refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular section or provision, unless the context requires otherwise. The table of contents and headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and are not part of this Agreement. Whenever the words "include," "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed followed by the words "without limitation." No rule of construction against the draftsperson shall be applied in connection with the interpretation or enforcement of this Agreement, as this Agreement is the product of negotiation between sophisticated parties advised by counsel. All references to "$" or "dollars" mean the lawful currency of the United States of America. Except as expressly stated in this Agreement, all references to any statute, rule or regulation are to the statute, rule or regulation as amended, modified, supplemented or replaced from time to time (and, in the case of statutes, include any rules and regulations promulgated under the statute) and to any section of any statute, rule or regulation include any successor to the section. References to a "" shall mean any day except Saturday, Sunday and any day on which banking institutions in the State of New York generally are authorized or required by law or other governmental actions to close.
Interpretation
business day
     2.1 .
Disclosure
     (a) "" means a material adverse effect on (i) the business, results of operation or financial condition of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole; , , that Company Material Adverse Effect shall not be deemed to include the effects of (A) changes after the date of the Letter Agreement (the "") in general business, economic or market conditions (including changes generally in prevailing interest rates, credit availability and liquidity, currency exchange rates and price levels or trading volumes in the United States or foreign securities or credit markets), or any outbreak or escalation of hostilities, declared or undeclared acts of war or terrorism, in each case generally affecting the industries in which the Company and its subsidiaries operate, (B) changes or proposed changes after the Signing Date in generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("") or regulatory accounting requirements, or authoritative interpretations thereof, (C) changes or proposed changes after the Signing Date in securities, banking and other laws of general applicability or related policies or interpretations of Governmental Entities (in the case of each of these clauses (A), (B) and (C), other than changes or occurrences to the extent that such changes or occurrences have or would reasonably be expected to have a materially disproportionate adverse effect on the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole relative to comparable U.S. banking or financial services organizations), or (D) changes in the market price or trading volume of the Common Stock or any other equity, equity-related or debt securities of the Company or its consolidated subsidiaries (it being understood and agreed that the exception set forth in this clause (D) does
Company Material Adverse Effect
provided
however
Signing Date
GAAP
 
not apply to the underlying reason giving rise to or contributing to any such change); or (ii) the ability of the Company to consummate the Purchase and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Warrant and perform its obligations hereunder or thereunder on a timely basis.
     (b) "" means information set forth or incorporated in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the most recently completed fiscal year of the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") prior to the Signing Date (the "") or in its other reports and forms filed with or furnished to the SEC under Sections 13(a), 14(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "") on or after the last day of the Last Fiscal Year and prior to the Signing Date.
Previously Disclosed
SEC
Last Fiscal Year
Exchange Act
     2.2 . Except as Previously Disclosed, the Company represents and warrants to the Investor that as of the Signing Date and as of the Closing Date (or such other date specified herein):
Representations and Warranties of the Company
     (a) . The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, with the necessary power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business in all material respects as currently conducted, and except as has not, individually or in the aggregate, had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, has been duly qualified as a foreign corporation for the transaction of business and is in good standing under the laws of each other jurisdiction in which it owns or leases properties or conducts any business so as to require such qualification; each subsidiary of the Company that is a "significant subsidiary" within the meaning of Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "") has been duly organized and is validly existing in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization. The Charter and bylaws of the Company, copies of which have been provided to the Investor prior to the Signing Date, are true, complete and correct copies of such documents as in full force and effect as of the Signing Date.
Organization, Authority and Significant Subsidiaries
Securities Act
     (b) . The authorized capital stock of the Company, and the outstanding capital stock of the Company (including securities convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, capital stock of the Company) as of the most recent fiscal month-end preceding the Signing Date (the "") is set forth on . The outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company have been duly authorized and are validly issued and outstanding, fully paid and nonassessable, and subject to no preemptive rights (and were not issued in violation of any preemptive rights). Except as provided in the Warrant, as of the Signing Date, the Company does not have outstanding any securities or other obligations providing the holder the right to acquire Common Stock that is not reserved for issuance as specified on , and the Company has not made any other commitment to authorize, issue or sell any Common Stock. Since the Capitalization Date, the Company has not issued any shares of Common Stock, other than (i) shares issued upon the exercise of stock options or delivered under other equity-based awards or other convertible securities or warrants which were issued and outstanding on the Capitalization Date and disclosed on Schedule B and (ii) shares disclosed on .
Capitalization
Capitalization Date
Schedule B
Schedule B
Schedule B
 
     (c) . The Preferred Shares have been duly and validly authorized, and, when issued and delivered pursuant to this Agreement, such Preferred Shares will be duly and validly issued and fully paid and non-assessable, will not be issued in violation of any preemptive rights, and will rank with or senior to all other series or classes of Preferred Stock, whether or not issued or outstanding, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Company.
Preferred Shares
pari passu
     (d) . The Warrant has been duly authorized and, when executed and delivered as contemplated hereby, will constitute a valid and legally binding obligation of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the same may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and general equitable principles, regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity (""). The shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrant (the "") have been duly authorized and reserved for issuance upon exercise of the Warrant and when so issued in accordance with the terms of the Warrant will be validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable, subject, if applicable, to the approvals of its stockholders set forth on .
The Warrant and Warrant Shares
Bankruptcy Exceptions
Warrant Shares
Schedule C
     (e) .
Authorization, Enforceability
     (i) The Company has the corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and the Warrant and, subject, if applicable, to the approvals of its stockholders set forth on , to carry out its obligations hereunder and thereunder (which includes the issuance of the Preferred Shares, Warrant and Warrant Shares). The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of this Agreement and the Warrant and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company and its stockholders, and no further approval or authorization is required on the part of the Company, subject, in each case, if applicable, to the approvals of its stockholders set forth on . This Agreement is a valid and binding obligation of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to the Bankruptcy Exceptions.
Schedule C
Schedule C
     (ii) The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of this Agreement and the Warrant and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby and compliance by the Company with the provisions hereof and thereof, will not (A) violate, conflict with, or result in a breach of any provision of, or constitute a default (or an event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default) under, or result in the termination of, or accelerate the performance required by, or result in a right of termination or acceleration of, or result in the creation of, any lien, security interest, charge or encumbrance upon any of the properties or assets of the Company or any Company Subsidiary under any of the terms, conditions or provisions of (i) subject, if applicable, to the approvals of the Company's stockholders set forth on , its organizational documents or (ii) any note, bond, mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, license, lease, agreement or other instrument or obligation to
Schedule C
 
which the Company or any Company Subsidiary is a party or by which it or any Company Subsidiary may be bound, or to which the Company or any Company Subsidiary or any of the properties or assets of the Company or any Company Subsidiary may be subject, or (B) subject to compliance with the statutes and regulations referred to in the next paragraph, violate any statute, rule or regulation or any judgment, ruling, order, writ, injunction or decree applicable to the Company or any Company Subsidiary or any of their respective properties or assets except, in the case of clauses (A)(ii) and (B), for those occurrences that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
     (iii) Other than the filing of the Certificate of Designations with the Secretary of State of its jurisdiction of organization or other applicable Governmental Entity, any current report on Form 8-K required to be filed with the SEC, such filings and approvals as are required to be made or obtained under any state "blue sky" laws, the filing of any proxy statement contemplated by Section 3.1 and such as have been made or obtained, no notice to, filing with, exemption or review by, or authorization, consent or approval of, any Governmental Entity is required to be made or obtained by the Company in connection with the consummation by the Company of the Purchase except for any such notices, filings, exemptions, reviews, authorizations, consents and approvals the failure of which to make or obtain would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
     (f) . The Board of Directors of the Company (the "") has taken all necessary action to ensure that the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Warrant and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, including the exercise of the Warrant in accordance with its terms, will be exempt from any anti-takeover or similar provisions of the Company's Charter and bylaws, and any other provisions of any applicable "moratorium", "control share", "fair price", "interested stockholder" or other anti-takeover laws and regulations of any jurisdiction. The Company has taken all actions necessary to render any stockholders' rights plan of the Company inapplicable to this Agreement and the Warrant and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, including the exercise of the Warrant by the Investor in accordance with its terms.
Anti-takeover Provisions and Rights Plan
Board of Directors
     (g) . Since the last day of the last completed fiscal period for which the Company has filed a Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or an Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC prior to the Signing Date, no fact, circumstance, event, change, occurrence, condition or development has occurred that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
No Company Material Adverse Effect
     (h) . Each of the consolidated financial statements of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively the "") included or incorporated by reference in the Company Reports filed with the SEC since December 31, 2006, present fairly in all material respects the consolidated financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the dates indicated therein (or if amended prior to the Signing Date, as of the date of such amendment) and the consolidated results of their operations for the periods specified therein; and except as stated therein, such
Company Financial Statements
Company Financial Statements
 
financial statements (A) were prepared in conformity with GAAP applied on a consistent basis (except as may be noted therein), (B) have been prepared from, and are in accordance with, the books and records of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries and (C) complied as to form, as of their respective dates of filing with the SEC, in all material respects with the applicable accounting requirements and with the published rules and regulations of the SEC with respect thereto.
     (i) .
Reports
     (i) Since December 31, 2006, the Company and each subsidiary of the Company (each a "" and, collectively, the "") has timely filed all reports, registrations, documents, filings, statements and submissions, together with any amendments thereto, that it was required to file with any Governmental Entity (the foregoing, collectively, the "") and has paid all fees and assessments due and payable in connection therewith, except, in each case, as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. As of their respective dates of filing, the Company Reports complied in all material respects with all statutes and applicable rules and regulations of the applicable Governmental Entities. In the case of each such Company Report filed with or furnished to the SEC, such Company Report (A) did not, as of its date or if amended prior to the Signing Date, as of the date of such amendment, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and (B) complied as to form in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. With respect to all other Company Reports, the Company Reports were complete and accurate in all material respects as of their respective dates. No executive officer of the Company or any Company Subsidiary has failed in any respect to make the certifications required of him or her under Section 302 or 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Company Subsidiary
Company Subsidiaries
Company Reports
     (ii) The records, systems, controls, data and information of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries are recorded, stored, maintained and operated under means (including any electronic, mechanical or photographic process, whether computerized or not) that are under the exclusive ownership and direct control of the Company or the Company Subsidiaries or their accountants (including all means of access thereto and therefrom), except for any non-exclusive ownership and non-direct control that would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the system of internal accounting controls described below in this Section 2.2(i)(ii). The Company (A) has implemented and maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act) to ensure that material information relating to the Company, including the consolidated Company Subsidiaries, is made known to the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer of the Company by others within those entities, and (B) has disclosed, based on its most recent evaluation prior to the Signing Date, to the Company's outside auditors and the audit committee of the Board of Directors (x) any significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act) that are reasonably likely to adversely affect the Company's ability to record, process,
 
summarize and report financial information and (y) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the Company's internal controls over financial reporting.
     (j) . Neither the Company nor any of the Company Subsidiaries has any liabilities or obligations of any nature (absolute, accrued, contingent or otherwise) which are not properly reflected or reserved against in the Company Financial Statements to the extent required to be so reflected or reserved against in accordance with GAAP, except for (A) liabilities that have arisen since the last fiscal year end in the ordinary and usual course of business and consistent with past practice and (B) liabilities that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
No Undisclosed Liabilities
     (k) . Neither the Company nor any person acting on its behalf has taken any action (including any offering of any securities of the Company under circumstances which would require the integration of such offering with the offering of any of the Purchased Securities under the Securities Act, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder), which might subject the offering, issuance or sale of any of the Purchased Securities to Investor pursuant to this Agreement to the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
Offering of Securities
     (l) . Except (i) as set forth on Schedule D or (ii) as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, there is no (A) pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened, claim, action, suit, investigation or proceeding, against the Company or any Company Subsidiary or to which any of their assets are subject nor is the Company or any Company Subsidiary subject to any order, judgment or decree or (B) unresolved violation, criticism or exception by any Governmental Entity with respect to any report or relating to any examinations or inspections of the Company or any Company Subsidiaries.
Litigation and Other Proceedings
     (m) . Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, the Company and the Company Subsidiaries have all permits, licenses, franchises, authorizations, orders and approvals of, and have made all filings, applications and registrations with, Governmental Entities that are required in order to permit them to own or lease their properties and assets and to carry on their business as presently conducted and that are material to the business of the Company or such Company Subsidiary. Except as set forth on , the Company and the Company Subsidiaries have complied in all respects and are not in default or violation of, and none of them is, to the knowledge of the Company, under investigation with respect to or, to the knowledge of the Company, have been threatened to be charged with or given notice of any violation of, any applicable domestic (federal, state or local) or foreign law, statute, ordinance, license, rule, regulation, policy or guideline, order, demand, writ, injunction, decree or judgment of any Governmental Entity, other than such noncompliance, defaults or violations that would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. Except for statutory or regulatory restrictions of general application or as set forth on , no Governmental Entity has placed any restriction on the business or properties of
Compliance with Laws
Schedule E
Schedule E
 
the Company or any Company Subsidiary that would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
     (n) . Except as would not reasonably be expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Company Material Adverse Effect: (A) each "employee benefit plan" (within the meaning of Section 3(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("")) providing benefits to any current or former employee, officer or director of the Company or any member of its "" (defined as any organization which is a member of a controlled group of corporations within the meaning of Section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "")) that is sponsored, maintained or contributed to by the Company or any member of its Controlled Group and for which the Company or any member of its Controlled Group would have any liability, whether actual or contingent (each, a "") has been maintained in compliance with its terms and with the requirements of all applicable statutes, rules and regulations, including ERISA and the Code; (B) with respect to each Plan subject to Title IV of ERISA (including, for purposes of this clause (B), any plan subject to Title IV of ERISA that the Company or any member of its Controlled Group previously maintained or contributed to in the six years prior to the Signing Date), (1) no "reportable event" (within the meaning of Section 4043(c) of ERISA), other than a reportable event for which the notice period referred to in Section 4043(c) of ERISA has been waived, has occurred in the three years prior to the Signing Date or is reasonably expected to occur, (2) no "accumulated funding deficiency" (within the meaning of Section 302 of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code), whether or not waived, has occurred in the three years prior to the Signing Date or is reasonably expected to occur, (3) the fair market value of the assets under each Plan exceeds the present value of all benefits accrued under such Plan (determined based on the assumptions used to fund such Plan) and (4) neither the Company nor any member of its Controlled Group has incurred in the six years prior to the Signing Date, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability under Title IV of ERISA (other than contributions to the Plan or premiums to the PBGC in the ordinary course and without default) in respect of a Plan (including any Plan that is a "multiemployer plan", within the meaning of Section 4001(c)(3) of ERISA); and (C) each Plan that is intended to be qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a favorable determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service with respect to its qualified status that has not been revoked, or such a determination letter has been timely applied for but not received by the Signing Date, and nothing has occurred, whether by action or by failure to act, which could reasonably be expected to cause the loss, revocation or denial of such qualified status or favorable determination letter.
Employee Benefit Matters
ERISA
Controlled Group
Code
Plan
     (o) . Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, (i) the Company and the Company Subsidiaries have filed all federal, state, local and foreign income and franchise Tax returns required to be filed through the Signing Date, subject to permitted extensions, and have paid all Taxes due thereon, and (ii) no Tax deficiency has been determined adversely to the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries, nor does the Company have any knowledge of any Tax deficiencies. "" or "" means any federal, state, local or foreign income, gross receipts, property, sales, use, license, excise, franchise, employment, payroll, withholding, alternative or add on minimum, ad valorem, transfer or excise tax, or any other tax, custom, duty, governmental fee or other like assessment or charge of any kind whatsoever, together with any interest or penalty, imposed by any Governmental Entity.
Taxes
Tax
Taxes
 
     (p) . Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, the Company and the Company Subsidiaries have good and marketable title to all real properties and all other properties and assets owned by them, in each case free from liens, encumbrances, claims and defects that would affect the value thereof or interfere with the use made or to be made thereof by them. Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, the Company and the Company Subsidiaries hold all leased real or personal property under valid and enforceable leases with no exceptions that would interfere with the use made or to be made thereof by them.
Properties and Leases
     (q) . Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect:
Environmental Liability
     (i) there is no legal, administrative, or other proceeding, claim or action of any nature seeking to impose, or that would reasonably be expected to result in the imposition of, on the Company or any Company Subsidiary, any liability relating to the release of hazardous substances as defined under any local, state or federal environmental statute, regulation or ordinance, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened against the Company or any Company Subsidiary;
     (ii) to the Company's knowledge, there is no reasonable basis for any such proceeding, claim or action; and
     (iii) neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary is subject to any agreement, order, judgment or decree by or with any court, Governmental Entity or third party imposing any such environmental liability.
     (r) . Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, all derivative instruments, including, swaps, caps, floors and option agreements, whether entered into for the Company's own account, or for the account of one or more of the Company Subsidiaries or its or their customers, were entered into (i) only in the ordinary course of business, (ii) in accordance with prudent practices and in all material respects with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and regulatory policies and (iii) with counterparties believed to be financially responsible at the time; and each of such instruments constitutes the valid and legally binding obligation of the Company or one of the Company Subsidiaries, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as may be limited by the Bankruptcy Exceptions. Neither the Company or the Company Subsidiaries, nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any other party thereto, is in breach of any of its obligations under any such agreement or arrangement other than such breaches that would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
Risk Management Instruments
     (s) . Except as set forth on , neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary is subject to any material cease-and-desist or other similar order or enforcement action issued by, or is a party to any material written agreement, consent agreement or memorandum of understanding with, or is a party to any commitment letter or similar undertaking to, or is subject to any capital directive by, or since December 31, 2006,
Agreements with Regulatory Agencies
Schedule F
 
has adopted any board resolutions at the request of, any Governmental Entity (other than the Appropriate Federal Banking Agencies with jurisdiction over the Company and the Company Subsidiaries) that currently restricts in any material respect the conduct of its business or that in any material manner relates to its capital adequacy, its liquidity and funding policies and practices, its ability to pay dividends, its credit, risk management or compliance policies or procedures, its internal controls, its management or its operations or business (each item in this sentence, a ""), nor has the Company or any Company Subsidiary been advised since December 31, 2006 by any such Governmental Entity that it is considering issuing, initiating, ordering, or requesting any such Regulatory Agreement. The Company and each Company Subsidiary are in compliance in all material respects with each Regulatory Agreement to which it is party or subject, and neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary has received any notice from any Governmental Entity indicating that either the Company or any Company Subsidiary is not in compliance in all material respects with any such Regulatory Agreement. "" means the "appropriate Federal banking agency" with respect to the Company or such Company Subsidiaries, as applicable, as defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. Section 1813(q)).
Regulatory Agreement
Appropriate Federal Banking Agency
     (t) . The Company and the Company Subsidiaries are insured with reputable insurers against such risks and in such amounts as the management of the Company reasonably has determined to be prudent and consistent with industry practice. The Company and the Company Subsidiaries are in material compliance with their insurance policies and are not in default under any of the material terms thereof, each such policy is outstanding and in full force and effect, all premiums and other payments due under any material policy have been paid, and all claims thereunder have been filed in due and timely fashion, except, in each case, as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
Insurance
     (u) . Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, (i) the Company and each Company Subsidiary owns or otherwise has the right to use, all intellectual property rights, including all trademarks, trade dress, trade names, service marks, domain names, patents, inventions, trade secrets, know-how, works of authorship and copyrights therein, that are used in the conduct of their existing businesses and all rights relating to the plans, design and specifications of any of its branch facilities ("") free and clear of all liens and any claims of ownership by current or former employees, contractors, designers or others and (ii) neither the Company nor any of the Company Subsidiaries is materially infringing, diluting, misappropriating or violating, nor has the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries received any written (or, to the knowledge of the Company, oral) communications alleging that any of them has materially infringed, diluted, misappropriated or violated, any of the Proprietary Rights owned by any other person. Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, to the Company's knowledge, no other person is infringing, diluting, misappropriating or violating, nor has the Company or any or the Company Subsidiaries sent any written communications since January 1, 2006 alleging that any person has infringed, diluted, misappropriated or violated, any of the Proprietary Rights owned by the Company and the Company Subsidiaries.
Intellectual Property
Proprietary Rights
 
     (v) . No broker, finder or investment banker is entitled to any financial advisory, brokerage, finder's or other fee or commission in connection with this Agreement or the Warrant or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby based upon arrangements made by or on behalf of the Company or any Company Subsidiary for which the Investor could have any liability.
Brokers and Finders
     3.1 .
Commercially Reasonable Efforts
     (a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, each of the parties will use its commercially reasonable efforts in good faith to take, or cause to be taken, all actions, and to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or desirable, or advisable under applicable laws, so as to permit consummation of the Purchase as promptly as practicable and otherwise to enable consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cooperate with the other party to that end.
     (b) If the Company is required to obtain any stockholder approvals set forth on , then the Company shall comply with this Section 3.1(b) and Section 3.1(c). The Company shall call a special meeting of its stockholders, as promptly as practicable following the Closing, to vote on proposals (collectively, the "") to (i) approve the exercise of the Warrant for Common Stock for purposes of the rules of the national security exchange on which the Common Stock is listed and/or (ii) amend the Company's Charter to increase the number of authorized shares of Common Stock to at least such number as shall be sufficient to permit the full exercise of the Warrant for Common Stock and comply with the other provisions of this Section 3.1(b) and Section 3.1(c). The Board of Directors shall recommend to the Company's stockholders that such stockholders vote in favor of the Stockholder Proposals. In connection with such meeting, the Company shall prepare (and the Investor will reasonably cooperate with the Company to prepare) and file with the SEC as promptly as practicable (but in no event more than ten business days after the Closing) a preliminary proxy statement, shall use its reasonable best efforts to respond to any comments of the SEC or its staff thereon and to cause a definitive proxy statement related to such stockholders' meeting to be mailed to the Company's stockholders not more than five business days after clearance thereof by the SEC, and shall use its reasonable best efforts to solicit proxies for such stockholder approval of the Stockholder Proposals. The Company shall notify the Investor promptly of the receipt of any comments from the SEC or its staff with respect to the proxy statement and of any request by the SEC or its staff for amendments or supplements to such proxy statement or for additional information and will supply the Investor with copies of all correspondence between the Company or any of its representatives, on the one hand, and the SEC or its staff, on the other hand, with respect to such proxy statement. If at any time prior to such stockholders' meeting there shall occur any event that is required to be set forth in an amendment or supplement to the proxy statement, the Company shall as promptly as practicable prepare and mail to its stockholders such an amendment or supplement. Each of the Investor and the Company agrees promptly to correct any information provided by it or on its behalf for use in the proxy statement if and to the extent that such information shall have become false or misleading in any material respect, and the Company shall as promptly as practicable prepare
Schedule C
Stockholder Proposals
 
and mail to its stockholders an amendment or supplement to correct such information to the extent required by applicable laws and regulations. The Company shall consult with the Investor prior to filing any proxy statement, or any amendment or supplement thereto, and provide the Investor with a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon. In the event that the approval of any of the Stockholder Proposals is not obtained at such special stockholders meeting, the Company shall include a proposal to approve (and the Board of Directors shall recommend approval of) each such proposal at a meeting of its stockholders no less than once in each subsequent six- month period beginning on January 1, 2009 until all such approvals are obtained or made.
     (c) None of the information supplied by the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries for inclusion in any proxy statement in connection with any such stockholders meeting of the Company will, at the date it is filed with the SEC, when first mailed to the Company's stockholders and at the time of any stockholders meeting, and at the time of any amendment or supplement thereof, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading.
     3.2 . Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement or the Warrant, each of the parties hereto will bear and pay all costs and expenses incurred by it or on its behalf in connection with the transactions contemplated under this Agreement and the Warrant, including fees and expenses of its own financial or other consultants, investment bankers, accountants and counsel.
Expenses
     3.3 .
Sufficiency of Authorized Common Stock; Exchange Listing
     (a) During the period from the Closing Date (or, if the approval of the Stockholder Proposals is required, the date of such approval) until the date on which the Warrant has been fully exercised, the Company shall at all times have reserved for issuance, free of preemptive or similar rights, a sufficient number of authorized and unissued Warrant Shares to effectuate such exercise. Nothing in this Section 3.3 shall preclude the Company from satisfying its obligations in respect of the exercise of the Warrant by delivery of shares of Common Stock which are held in the treasury of the Company. As soon as reasonably practicable following the Closing, the Company shall, at its expense, cause the Warrant Shares to be listed on the same national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed, subject to official notice of issuance, and shall maintain such listing for so long as any Common Stock is listed on such exchange.
     (b) If requested by the Investor, the Company shall promptly use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Preferred Shares to be approved for listing on a national securities exchange as promptly as practicable following such request.
     3.4 . From the Signing Date until the Closing, the Company shall promptly notify the Investor of (i) any fact, event or circumstance of which it is aware and which would reasonably be expected to cause any representation or warranty of the Company contained in this Agreement to be untrue or inaccurate in any material respect or to cause any covenant or agreement of the Company contained in this Agreement not to be complied with or satisfied in any material respect and (ii) except as Previously Disclosed, any fact, circumstance, event, change, occurrence, condition or development of which the Company
Certain Notifications Until Closing
 
is aware and which, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect; , that delivery of any notice pursuant to this Section 3.4 shall not limit or affect any rights of or remedies available to the Investor; , that a failure to comply with this Section 3.4 shall not constitute a breach of this Agreement or the failure of any condition set forth in Section 1.2 to be satisfied unless the underlying Company Material Adverse Effect or material breach would independently result in the failure of a condition set forth in Section 1.2 to be satisfied.
provided, however
provided, further
     3.5 .
Access, Information and Confidentiality
     (a) From the Signing Date until the date when the Investor holds an amount of Preferred Shares having an aggregate liquidation value of less than 10% of the Purchase Price, the Company will permit the Investor and its agents, consultants, contractors and advisors (x) acting through the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, to examine the corporate books and make copies thereof and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries with the principal officers of the Company, all upon reasonable notice and at such reasonable times and as often as the Investor may reasonably request and (y) to review any information material to the Investor's investment in the Company provided by the Company to its Appropriate Federal Banking Agency. Any investigation pursuant to this Section 3.5 shall be conducted during normal business hours and in such manner as not to interfere unreasonably with the conduct of the business of the Company, and nothing herein shall require the Company or any Company Subsidiary to disclose any information to the Investor to the extent (i) prohibited by applicable law or regulation, or (ii) that such disclosure would reasonably be expected to cause a violation of any agreement to which the Company or any Company Subsidiary is a party or would cause a risk of a loss of privilege to the Company or any Company Subsidiary (that the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to make appropriate substitute disclosure arrangements under circumstances where the restrictions in this clause (ii) apply).
provided
     (b) The Investor will use reasonable best efforts to hold, and will use reasonable best efforts to cause its agents, consultants, contractors and advisors to hold, in confidence all nonpublic records, books, contracts, instruments, computer data and other data and information (collectively, "") concerning the Company furnished or made available to it by the Company or its representatives pursuant to this Agreement (except to the extent that such information can be shown to have been (i) previously known by such party on a non-confidential basis, (ii) in the public domain through no fault of such party or (iii) later lawfully acquired from other sources by the party to which it was furnished (and without violation of any other confidentiality obligation)); that nothing herein shall prevent the Investor from disclosing any Information to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process.
Information
provided
     4.1 . The Investor acknowledges that the Purchased Securities and the Warrant Shares have not been registered under the Securities Act or under any state securities laws. The Investor (a) is acquiring the Purchased Securities pursuant to an
Purchase for Investment
 
exemption from registration under the Securities Act solely for investment with no present intention to distribute them to any person in violation of the Securities Act or any applicable U.S. state securities laws, (b) will not sell or otherwise dispose of any of the Purchased Securities or the Warrant Shares, except in compliance with the registration requirements or exemption provisions of the Securities Act and any applicable U.S. state securities laws, and (c) has such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters and in investments of this type that it is capable of evaluating the merits and risks of the Purchase and of making an informed investment decision.
     4.2 .
Legends
     (a) The Investor agrees that all certificates or other instruments representing the Warrant and the Warrant Shares will bear a legend substantially to the following effect:
"THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS INSTRUMENT HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED, OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE AND MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF EXCEPT WHILE A REGISTRATION STATEMENT RELATING THERETO IS IN EFFECT UNDER SUCH ACT AND APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS OR PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER SUCH ACT OR SUCH LAWS."
     (b) The Investor agrees that all certificates or other instruments representing the Warrant will also bear a legend substantially to the following effect:
"THIS INSTRUMENT IS ISSUED SUBJECT TO THE RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER AND OTHER PROVISIONS OF A SECURITIES PURCHASE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE ISSUER OF THESE SECURITIES AND THE INVESTOR REFERRED TO THEREIN, A COPY OF WHICH IS ON FILE WITH THE ISSUER. THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS INSTRUMENT MAY NOT BE SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT IN COMPLIANCE WITH SAID AGREEMENT. ANY SALE OR OTHER TRANSFER NOT IN COMPLIANCE WITH SAID AGREEMENT WILL BE VOID."
     (c) In addition, the Investor agrees that all certificates or other instruments representing the Preferred Shares will bear a legend substantially to the following effect:
"THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS INSTRUMENT ARE NOT SAVINGS ACCOUNTS, DEPOSITS OR OTHER OBLIGATIONS OF A BANK AND ARE NOT INSURED BY THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION OR ANY OTHER GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY.
THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS INSTRUMENT HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE AND MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF EXCEPT WHILE A REGISTRATION STATEMENT RELATING THERETO IS IN EFFECT UNDER SUCH ACT AND APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS OR PURSUANT TO
 
AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER SUCH ACT OR SUCH LAWS. EACH PURCHASER OF THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS INSTRUMENT IS NOTIFIED THAT THE SELLER MAY BE RELYING ON THE EXEMPTION FROM SECTION 5 OF THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A THEREUNDER. ANY TRANSFEREE OF THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS INSTRUMENT BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF (1) REPRESENTS THAT IT IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT), (2) AGREES THAT IT WILL NOT OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS INSTRUMENT EXCEPT (A) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH IS THEN EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (B) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS INSTRUMENT ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (C) TO THE ISSUER OR (D) PURSUANT TO ANY OTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT AND (3) AGREES THAT IT WILL GIVE TO EACH PERSON TO WHOM THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS INSTRUMENT ARE TRANSFERRED A NOTICE SUBSTANTIALLY TO THE EFFECT OF THIS LEGEND."
     (d) In the event that any Purchased Securities or Warrant Shares (i) become registered under the Securities Act or (ii) are eligible to be transferred without restriction in accordance with Rule 144 or another exemption from registration under the Securities Act (other than Rule 144A), the Company shall issue new certificates or other instruments representing such Purchased Securities or Warrant Shares, which shall not contain the applicable legends in Sections 4.2(a) and (c) above; that the Investor surrenders to the Company the previously issued certificates or other instruments. Upon Transfer of all or a portion of the Warrant in compliance with Section 4.4, the Company shall issue new certificates or other instruments representing the Warrant, which shall not contain the applicable legend in Section 4.2(b) above; that the Investor surrenders to the Company the previously issued certificates or other instruments.
provided
provided
     4.3 . The Company will not merge or consolidate with, or sell, transfer or lease all or substantially all of its property or assets to, any other party unless the successor, transferee or lessee party (or its ultimate parent entity), as the case may be (if not the Company), expressly assumes the due and punctual performance and observance of each and every covenant, agreement and condition of this Agreement to be performed and observed by the Company.
Certain Transactions
     4.4 . Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, the Investor shall be permitted to transfer, sell, assign or otherwise dispose of ("") all or a portion of the Purchased Securities or Warrant Shares at any time, and the Company shall take all steps as may
Transfer of Purchased Securities and Warrant Shares; Restrictions on Exercise of the Warrant
Transfer
 
be reasonably requested by the Investor to facilitate the Transfer of the Purchased Securities and the Warrant Shares; that the Investor shall not Transfer a portion or portions of the Warrant with respect to, and/or exercise the Warrant for, more than one-half of the Initial Warrant Shares (as such number may be adjusted from time to time pursuant to Section 13 thereof) in the aggregate until the earlier of (a) the date on which the Company (or any successor by Business Combination) has received aggregate gross proceeds of not less than the Purchase Price (and the purchase price paid by the Investor to any such successor for securities of such successor purchased under the CPP) from one or more Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor) and (b) December 31, 2009. "" means the sale and issuance for cash by the Company to persons other than the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries after the Closing Date of shares of perpetual Preferred Stock, Common Stock or any combination of such stock, that, in each case, qualify as and may be included in Tier 1 capital of the Company at the time of issuance under the applicable risk-based capital guidelines of the Company's Appropriate Federal Banking Agency (other than any such sales and issuances made pursuant to agreements or arrangements entered into, or pursuant to financing plans which were publicly announced, on or prior to October 13, 2008). "" means a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar transaction that requires the approval of the Company's stockholders.
provided
Qualified Equity Offering
Business Combination
     4.5 .
Registration Rights
     (a) .
Registration
     (i) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Company covenants and agrees that as promptly as practicable after the Closing Date (and in any event no later than 30 days after the Closing Date), the Company shall prepare and file with the SEC a Shelf Registration Statement covering all Registrable Securities (or otherwise designate an existing Shelf Registration Statement filed with the SEC to cover the Registrable Securities), and, to the extent the Shelf Registration Statement has not theretofore been declared effective or is not automatically effective upon such filing, the Company shall use reasonable best efforts to cause such Shelf Registration Statement to be declared or become effective and to keep such Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective and in compliance with the Securities Act and usable for resale of such Registrable Securities for a period from the date of its initial effectiveness until such time as there are no Registrable Securities remaining (including by refiling such Shelf Registration Statement (or a new Shelf Registration Statement) if the initial Shelf Registration Statement expires). So long as the Company is a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) at the time of filing of the Shelf Registration Statement with the SEC, such Shelf Registration Statement shall be designated by the Company as an automatic Shelf Registration Statement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if on the Signing Date the Company is not eligible to file a registration statement on Form S-3, then the Company shall not be obligated to file a Shelf Registration Statement unless and until requested to do so in writing by the Investor.
     (ii) Any registration pursuant to Section 4.5(a)(i) shall be effected by means of a shelf registration on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the Securities Act (a
 
""). If the Investor or any other Holder intends to distribute any Registrable Securities by means of an underwritten offering it shall promptly so advise the Company and the Company shall take all reasonable steps to facilitate such distribution, including the actions required pursuant to Section 4.5(c); that the Company shall not be required to facilitate an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities unless the expected gross proceeds from such offering exceed (i) 2% of the initial aggregate liquidation preference of the Preferred Shares if such initial aggregate liquidation preference is less than $2 billion and (ii) $200 million if the initial aggregate liquidation preference of the Preferred Shares is equal to or greater than $2 billion. The lead underwriters in any such distribution shall be selected by the Holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities to be distributed; that to the extent appropriate and permitted under applicable law, such Holders shall consider the qualifications of any broker-dealer Affiliate of the Company in selecting the lead underwriters in any such distribution.
Shelf Registration Statement
provided
provided
     (iii) The Company shall not be required to effect a registration (including a resale of Registrable Securities from an effective Shelf Registration Statement) or an underwritten offering pursuant to Section 4.5(a): (A) with respect to securities that are not Registrable Securities; or (B) if the Company has notified the Investor and all other Holders that in the good faith judgment of the Board of Directors, it would be materially detrimental to the Company or its securityholders for such registration or underwritten offering to be effected at such time, in which event the Company shall have the right to defer such registration for a period of not more than 45 days after receipt of the request of the Investor or any other Holder; that such right to delay a registration or underwritten offering shall be exercised by the Company (1) only if the Company has generally exercised (or is concurrently exercising) similar black-out rights against holders of similar securities that have registration rights and (2) not more than three times in any 12-month period and not more than 90 days in the aggregate in any 12-month period.
provided
     (iv) If during any period when an effective Shelf Registration Statement is not available, the Company proposes to register any of its equity securities, other than a registration pursuant to Section 4.5(a)(i) or a Special Registration, and the registration form to be filed may be used for the registration or qualification for distribution of Registrable Securities, the Company will give prompt written notice to the Investor and all other Holders of its intention to effect such a registration (but in no event less than ten days prior to the anticipated filing date) and will include in such registration all Registrable Securities with respect to which the Company has received written requests for inclusion therein within ten business days after the date of the Company's notice (a ""). Any such person that has made such a written request may withdraw its Registrable Securities from such Piggyback Registration by giving written notice to the Company and the managing underwriter, if any, on or before the fifth business day prior to the planned effective date of such Piggyback Registration. The Company may terminate or withdraw any registration under this Section 4.5(a)(iv) prior to the effectiveness of such registration, whether or not Investor or any other Holders have elected to include Registrable Securities in such registration.
Piggyback Registration
 
     (v) If the registration referred to in Section 4.5(a)(iv) is proposed to be underwritten, the Company will so advise Investor and all other Holders as a part of the written notice given pursuant to Section 4.5(a)(iv). In such event, the right of Investor and all other Holders to registration pursuant to Section 4.5(a) will be conditioned upon such persons' participation in such underwriting and the inclusion of such person's Registrable Securities in the underwriting if such securities are of the same class of securities as the securities to be offered in the underwritten offering, and each such person will (together with the Company and the other persons distributing their securities through such underwriting) enter into an underwriting agreement in customary form with the underwriter or underwriters selected for such underwriting by the Company; that the Investor (as opposed to other Holders) shall not be required to indemnify any person in connection with any registration. If any participating person disapproves of the terms of the underwriting, such person may elect to withdraw therefrom by written notice to the Company, the managing underwriters and the Investor (if the Investor is participating in the underwriting).
provided
     (vi) If either (x) the Company grants "piggyback" registration rights to one or more third parties to include their securities in an underwritten offering under the Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 4.5(a)(ii) or (y) a Piggyback Registration under Section 4.5(a)(iv) relates to an underwritten offering on behalf of the Company, and in either case the managing underwriters advise the Company that in their reasonable opinion the number of securities requested to be included in such offering exceeds the number which can be sold without adversely affecting the marketability of such offering (including an adverse effect on the per share offering price), the Company will include in such offering only such number of securities that in the reasonable opinion of such managing underwriters can be sold without adversely affecting the marketability of the offering (including an adverse effect on the per share offering price), which securities will be so included in the following order of priority: (A) first, in the case of a Piggyback Registration under Section 4.5(a)(iv), the securities the Company proposes to sell, (B) then the Registrable Securities of the Investor and all other Holders who have requested inclusion of Registrable Securities pursuant to Section 4.5(a)(ii) or Section 4.5(a)(iv), as applicable, on the basis of the aggregate number of such securities or shares owned by each such person and (C) lastly, any other securities of the Company that have been requested to be so included, subject to the terms of this Agreement; , , that if the Company has, prior to the Signing Date, entered into an agreement with respect to its securities that is inconsistent with the order of priority contemplated hereby then it shall apply the order of priority in such conflicting agreement to the extent that it would otherwise result in a breach under such agreement.
pro rata
provided
however
     (b) . All Registration Expenses incurred in connection with any registration, qualification or compliance hereunder shall be borne by the Company. All Selling Expenses incurred in connection with any registrations hereunder shall be borne by the holders of the securities so registered on the basis of the aggregate offering or sale price of the securities so registered.
Expenses of Registration
pro rata
 
     (c) . The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts, for so long as there are Registrable Securities outstanding, to take such actions as are under its control to not become an ineligible issuer (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) and to remain a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) if it has such status on the Signing Date or becomes eligible for such status in the future. In addition, whenever required to effect the registration of any Registrable Securities or facilitate the distribution of Registrable Securities pursuant to an effective Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall, as expeditiously as reasonably practicable:
Obligations of the Company
     (i) Prepare and file with the SEC a prospectus supplement with respect to a proposed offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to an effective registration statement, subject to Section 4.5(d), keep such registration statement effective and keep such prospectus supplement current until the securities described therein are no longer Registrable Securities.
     (ii) Prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and supplements to the applicable registration statement and the prospectus or prospectus supplement used in connection with such registration statement as may be necessary to comply with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by such registration statement.
     (iii) Furnish to the Holders and any underwriters such number of copies of the applicable registration statement and each such amendment and supplement thereto (including in each case all exhibits) and of a prospectus, including a preliminary prospectus, in conformity with the requirements of the Securities Act, and such other documents as they may reasonably request in order to facilitate the disposition of Registrable Securities owned or to be distributed by them.
     (iv) Use its reasonable best efforts to register and qualify the securities covered by such registration statement under such other securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions as shall be reasonably requested by the Holders or any managing underwriter(s), to keep such registration or qualification in effect for so long as such registration statement remains in effect, and to take any other action which may be reasonably necessary to enable such seller to consummate the disposition in such jurisdictions of the securities owned by such Holder; that the Company shall not be required in connection therewith or as a condition thereto to qualify to do business or to file a general consent to service of process in any such states or jurisdictions.
provided
     (v) Notify each Holder of Registrable Securities at any time when a prospectus relating thereto is required to be delivered under the Securities Act of the happening of any event as a result of which the applicable prospectus, as then in effect, includes an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in light of the circumstances then existing.
 
     (vi) Give written notice to the Holders:
     (A) when any registration statement filed pursuant to Section 4.5(a) or any amendment thereto has been filed with the SEC (except for any amendment effected by the filing of a document with the SEC pursuant to the Exchange Act) and when such registration statement or any post-effective amendment thereto has become effective;
     (B) of any request by the SEC for amendments or supplements to any registration statement or the prospectus included therein or for additional information;
     (C) of the issuance by the SEC of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of any registration statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose;
     (D) of the receipt by the Company or its legal counsel of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Common Stock for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose;
     (E) of the happening of any event that requires the Company to make changes in any effective registration statement or the prospectus related to the registration statement in order to make the statements therein not misleading (which notice shall be accompanied by an instruction to suspend the use of the prospectus until the requisite changes have been made); and
     (F) if at any time the representations and warranties of the Company contained in any underwriting agreement contemplated by Section 4.5(c)(x) cease to be true and correct.
     (vii) Use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance or obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of any registration statement referred to in Section 4.5(c)(vi)(C) at the earliest practicable time.
     (viii) Upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by Section 4.5(c)(v) or 4.5(c)(vi)(E), promptly prepare a post-effective amendment to such registration statement or a supplement to the related prospectus or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the Holders and any underwriters, the prospectus will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. If the Company notifies the Holders in accordance with Section 4.5(c)(vi)(E) to suspend the use of the prospectus until the requisite changes to the prospectus have been made, then the Holders and any underwriters shall suspend use of such prospectus and use their reasonable best efforts to return to the Company all copies of such prospectus (at the Company's expense) other than permanent file copies then in such Holders' or underwriters' possession. The total number of days that any such suspension may be in effect in any 12-month period shall not exceed 90 days.
 
     (ix) Use reasonable best efforts to procure the cooperation of the Company's transfer agent in settling any offering or sale of Registrable Securities, including with respect to the transfer of physical stock certificates into book-entry form in accordance with any procedures reasonably requested by the Holders or any managing underwriter(s).
     (x) If an underwritten offering is requested pursuant to Section 4.5(a)(ii), enter into an underwriting agreement in customary form, scope and substance and take all such other actions reasonably requested by the Holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities being sold in connection therewith or by the managing underwriter(s), if any, to expedite or facilitate the underwritten disposition of such Registrable Securities, and in connection therewith in any underwritten offering (including making members of management and executives of the Company available to participate in "road shows", similar sales events and other marketing activities), (A) make such representations and warranties to the Holders that are selling stockholders and the managing underwriter(s), if any, with respect to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries, and the Shelf Registration Statement, prospectus and documents, if any, incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein, in each case, in customary form, substance and scope, and, if true, confirm the same if and when requested, (B) use its reasonable best efforts to furnish the underwriters with opinions of counsel to the Company, addressed to the managing underwriter(s), if any, covering the matters customarily covered in such opinions requested in underwritten offerings, (C) use its reasonable best efforts to obtain "cold comfort" letters from the independent certified public accountants of the Company (and, if necessary, any other independent certified public accountants of any business acquired by the Company for which financial statements and financial data are included in the Shelf Registration Statement) who have certified the financial statements included in such Shelf Registration Statement, addressed to each of the managing underwriter(s), if any, such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "cold comfort" letters, (D) if an underwriting agreement is entered into, the same shall contain indemnification provisions and procedures customary in underwritten offerings (provided that the Investor shall not be obligated to provide any indemnity), and (E) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the Holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities being sold in connection therewith, their counsel and the managing underwriter(s), if any, to evidence the continued validity of the representations and warranties made pursuant to clause (i) above and to evidence compliance with any customary conditions contained in the underwriting agreement or other agreement entered into by the Company.
     (xi) Make available for inspection by a representative of Holders that are selling stockholders, the managing underwriter(s), if any, and any attorneys or accountants retained by such Holders or managing underwriter(s), at the offices where normally kept, during reasonable business hours, financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company, and cause the officers, directors and employees of the Company to supply all information in each case reasonably requested (and of the type customarily provided in connection with due diligence conducted in connection with a registered public offering of securities) by any such representative,
 
managing underwriter(s), attorney or accountant in connection with such Shelf Registration Statement.
     (xii) Use reasonable best efforts to cause all such Registrable Securities to be listed on each national securities exchange on which similar securities issued by the Company are then listed or, if no similar securities issued by the Company are then listed on any national securities exchange, use its reasonable best efforts to cause all such Registrable Securities to be listed on such securities exchange as the Investor may designate.
     (xiii) If requested by Holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities being registered and/or sold in connection therewith, or the managing underwriter(s), if any, promptly include in a prospectus supplement or amendment such information as the Holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities being registered and/or sold in connection therewith or managing underwriter(s), if any, may reasonably request in order to permit the intended method of distribution of such securities and make all required filings of such prospectus supplement or such amendment as soon as practicable after the Company has received such request.
     (xiv) Timely provide to its security holders earning statements satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and Rule 158 thereunder.
     (d) . Upon receipt of written notice from the Company that a registration statement, prospectus or prospectus supplement contains or may contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omits or may omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or that circumstances exist that make inadvisable use of such registration statement, prospectus or prospectus supplement, the Investor and each Holder of Registrable Securities shall forthwith discontinue disposition of Registrable Securities until the Investor and/or Holder has received copies of a supplemented or amended prospectus or prospectus supplement, or until the Investor and/or such Holder is advised in writing by the Company that the use of the prospectus and, if applicable, prospectus supplement may be resumed, and, if so directed by the Company, the Investor and/or such Holder shall deliver to the Company (at the Company's expense) all copies, other than permanent file copies then in the Investor and/or such Holder's possession, of the prospectus and, if applicable, prospectus supplement covering such Registrable Securities current at the time of receipt of such notice. The total number of days that any such suspension may be in effect in any 12-month period shall not exceed 90 days.
Suspension of Sales
     (e) . A Holder's registration rights as to any securities held by such Holder (and its Affiliates, partners, members and former members) shall not be available unless such securities are Registrable Securities.
Termination of Registration Rights
     (f) .
Furnishing Information
     (i) Neither the Investor nor any Holder shall use any free writing prospectus (as defined in Rule 405) in connection with the sale of Registrable Securities without the prior written consent of the Company.
 
     (ii) It shall be a condition precedent to the obligations of the Company to take any action pursuant to Section 4.5(c) that Investor and/or the selling Holders and the underwriters, if any, shall furnish to the Company such information regarding themselves, the Registrable Securities held by them and the intended method of disposition of such securities as shall be required to effect the registered offering of their Registrable Securities.
     (g) .
Indemnification
     (i) The Company agrees to indemnify each Holder and, if a Holder is a person other than an individual, such Holder's officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives and Affiliates, and each Person, if any, that controls a Holder within the meaning of the Securities Act (each, an ""), against any and all losses, claims, damages, actions, liabilities, costs and expenses (including reasonable fees, expenses and disbursements of attorneys and other professionals incurred in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such losses, claims, damages, actions, liabilities, costs and expenses), joint or several, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of material fact contained in any registration statement, including any preliminary prospectus or final prospectus contained therein or any amendments or supplements thereto or any documents incorporated therein by reference or contained in any free writing prospectus (as such term is defined in Rule 405) prepared by the Company or authorized by it in writing for use by such Holder (or any amendment or supplement thereto); or any omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; , that the Company shall not be liable to such Indemnitee in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage, liability (or action or proceeding in respect thereof) or expense arises out of or is based upon (A) an untrue statement or omission made in such registration statement, including any such preliminary prospectus or final prospectus contained therein or any such amendments or supplements thereto or contained in any free writing prospectus (as such term is defined in Rule 405) prepared by the Company or authorized by it in writing for use by such Holder (or any amendment or supplement thereto), in reliance upon and in conformity with information regarding such Indemnitee or its plan of distribution or ownership interests which was furnished in writing to the Company by such Indemnitee for use in connection with such registration statement, including any such preliminary prospectus or final prospectus contained therein or any such amendments or supplements thereto, or (B) offers or sales effected by or on behalf of such Indemnitee "by means of" (as defined in Rule 159A) a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405) that was not authorized in writing by the Company.
Indemnitee
provided
     (ii) If the indemnification provided for in Section 4.5(g)(i) is unavailable to an Indemnitee with respect to any losses, claims, damages, actions, liabilities, costs or expenses referred to therein or is insufficient to hold the Indemnitee harmless as contemplated therein, then the Company, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnitee, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnitee as a result of such losses, claims, damages, actions, liabilities, costs or expenses in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the Indemnitee, on the one hand, and the Company, on the
 
other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, actions, liabilities, costs or expenses as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and of the Indemnitee, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other factors, whether the untrue statement of a material fact or omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Indemnitee and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission; the Company and each Holder agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 4.5(g)(ii) were determined by allocation or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in Section 4.5(g)(i). No Indemnitee guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from the Company if the Company was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
pro rata
     (h) . The rights of the Investor to registration of Registrable Securities pursuant to Section 4.5(a) may be assigned by the Investor to a transferee or assignee of Registrable Securities with a liquidation preference or, in the case of Registrable Securities other than Preferred Shares, a market value, no less than an amount equal to (i) 2% of the initial aggregate liquidation preference of the Preferred Shares if such initial aggregate liquidation preference is less than $2 billion and (ii) $200 million if the initial aggregate liquidation preference of the Preferred Shares is equal to or greater than $2 billion; , , the transferor shall, within ten days after such transfer, furnish to the Company written notice of the name and address of such transferee or assignee and the number and type of Registrable Securities that are being assigned. For purposes of this Section 4.5(h), "market value" per share of Common Stock shall be the last reported sale price of the Common Stock on the national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading on the last trading day prior to the proposed transfer, and the "market value" for the Warrant (or any portion thereof) shall be the market value per share of Common Stock into which the Warrant (or such portion) is exercisable less the exercise price per share.
Assignment of Registration Rights
provided
however
     (i) . With respect to any underwritten offering of Registrable Securities by the Investor or other Holders pursuant to this Section 4.5, the Company agrees not to effect (other than pursuant to such registration or pursuant to a Special Registration) any public sale or distribution, or to file any Shelf Registration Statement (other than such registration or a Special Registration) covering, in the case of an underwritten offering of Common Stock or Warrants, any of its equity securities or, in the case of an underwritten offering of Preferred Shares, any Preferred Stock of the Company, or, in each case, any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for such securities, during the period not to exceed ten days prior and 60 days following the effective date of such offering or such longer period up to 90 days as may be requested by the managing underwriter for such underwritten offering. The Company also agrees to cause such of its directors and senior executive officers to execute and deliver customary lock-up agreements in such form and for such time period up to 90 days as may be requested by the managing underwriter. "" means the registration of (A) equity securities and/or options or other rights in respect thereof solely registered on Form S-4 or Form S-8 (or successor form) or (B) shares of equity securities and/or options or other rights in respect thereof to be offered to directors, members of management, employees, consultants,
Clear Market
Special Registration
 
customers, lenders or vendors of the Company or Company Subsidiaries or in connection with dividend reinvestment plans.
     (j) . With a view to making available to the Investor and Holders the benefits of certain rules and regulations of the SEC which may permit the sale of the Registrable Securities to the public without registration, the Company agrees to use its reasonable best efforts to:
Rule 144; Rule 144A
     (i) make and keep public information available, as those terms are understood and defined in Rule 144(c)(1) or any similar or analogous rule promulgated under the Securities Act, at all times after the Signing Date;
     (ii) (A) file with the SEC, in a timely manner, all reports and other documents required of the Company under the Exchange Act, and (B) if at any time the Company is not required to file such reports, make available, upon the request of any Holder, such information necessary to permit sales pursuant to Rule 144A (including the information required by Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act);
     (iii) so long as the Investor or a Holder owns any Registrable Securities, furnish to the Investor or such Holder forthwith upon request: a written statement by the Company as to its compliance with the reporting requirements of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, and of the Exchange Act; a copy of the most recent annual or quarterly report of the Company; and such other reports and documents as the Investor or Holder may reasonably request in availing itself of any rule or regulation of the SEC allowing it to sell any such securities to the public without registration; and
     (iv) take such further action as any Holder may reasonably request, all to the extent required from time to time to enable such Holder to sell Registrable Securities without registration under the Securities Act.
     (k) As used in this Section 4.5, the following terms shall have the following respective meanings:
     (i) "" means the Investor and any other holder of Registrable Securities to whom the registration rights conferred by this Agreement have been transferred in compliance with Section 4.5(h) hereof.
Holder
     (ii) "" means one counsel for the selling Holders chosen by Holders holding a majority interest in the Registrable Securities being registered.
Holders' Counsel
     (iii) "," "," and "" shall refer to a registration effected by preparing and (A) filing a registration statement in compliance with the Securities Act and applicable rules and regulations thereunder, and the declaration or ordering of effectiveness of such registration statement or (B) filing a prospectus and/or prospectus supplement in respect of an appropriate effective registration statement on Form S-3.
Register
registered
registration
 
     (iv) "" means (A) all Preferred Shares, (B) the Warrant (subject to Section 4.5(p)) and (C) any equity securities issued or issuable directly or indirectly with respect to the securities referred to in the foregoing clauses (A) or (B) by way of conversion, exercise or exchange thereof, including the Warrant Shares, or share dividend or share split or in connection with a combination of shares, recapitalization, reclassification, merger, amalgamation, arrangement, consolidation or other reorganization, that, once issued, such securities will not be Registrable Securities when (1) they are sold pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, (2) except as provided below in Section 4.5(o), they may be sold pursuant to Rule 144 without limitation thereunder on volume or manner of sale, (3) they shall have ceased to be outstanding or (4) they have been sold in a private transaction in which the transferor's rights under this Agreement are not assigned to the transferee of the securities. No Registrable Securities may be registered under more than one registration statement at any one time.
Registrable Securities
provided
     (v) "" mean all expenses incurred by the Company in effecting any registration pursuant to this Agreement (whether or not any registration or prospectus becomes effective or final) or otherwise complying with its obligations under this Section 4.5, including all registration, filing and listing fees, printing expenses, fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company, blue sky fees and expenses, expenses incurred in connection with any "road show", the reasonable fees and disbursements of Holders' Counsel, and expenses of the Company's independent accountants in connection with any regular or special reviews or audits incident to or required by any such registration, but shall not include Selling Expenses.
Registration Expenses
     (vi) "", "", "", "" and "" mean, in each case, such rule promulgated under the Securities Act (or any successor provision), as the same shall be amended from time to time.
Rule 144
Rule 144A
Rule 159A
Rule 405
Rule 415
     (vii) "" mean all discounts, selling commissions and stock transfer taxes applicable to the sale of Registrable Securities and fees and disbursements of counsel for any Holder (other than the fees and disbursements of Holders' Counsel included in Registration Expenses).
Selling Expenses
     (l) At any time, any holder of Securities (including any Holder) may elect to forfeit its rights set forth in this Section 4.5 from that date forward; , that a Holder forfeiting such rights shall nonetheless be entitled to participate under Section 4.5(a)(iv)  (vi) in any Pending Underwritten Offering to the same extent that such Holder would have been entitled to if the holder had not withdrawn; and , that no such forfeiture shall terminate a Holder's rights or obligations under Section 4.5(f) with respect to any prior registration or Pending Underwritten Offering. "" means, with respect to any Holder forfeiting its rights pursuant to this Section 4.5(l), any underwritten offering of Registrable Securities in which such Holder has advised the Company of its intent to register its Registrable Securities either pursuant to Section 4.5(a)(ii) or 4.5(a)(iv) prior to the date of such Holder's forfeiture.
provided
provided, further
Pending Underwritten Offering
 
     (m) . The parties hereto acknowledge that there would be no adequate remedy at law if the Company fails to perform any of its obligations under this Section 4.5 and that the Investor and the Holders from time to time may be irreparably harmed by any such failure, and accordingly agree that the Investor and such Holders, in addition to any other remedy to which they may be entitled at law or in equity, to the fullest extent permitted and enforceable under applicable law shall be entitled to compel specific performance of the obligations of the Company under this Section 4.5 in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Section 4.5.
Specific Performance
     (n) . The Company shall not, on or after the Signing Date, enter into any agreement with respect to its securities that may impair the rights granted to the Investor and the Holders under this Section 4.5 or that otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof in any manner that may impair the rights granted to the Investor and the Holders under this Section 4.5. In the event the Company has, prior to the Signing Date, entered into any agreement with respect to its securities that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Investor and the Holders under this Section 4.5 (including agreements that are inconsistent with the order of priority contemplated by Section 4.5(a)(vi)) or that may otherwise conflict with the provisions hereof, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to amend such agreements to ensure they are consistent with the provisions of this Section 4.5.
No Inconsistent Agreements
     (o) . In the case of any securities held by the Investor that cease to be Registrable Securities solely by reason of clause (2) in the definition of "Registrable Securities," the provisions of Sections 4.5(a)(ii), clauses (iv), (ix) and (x)-(xii) of Section 4.5(c), Section 4.5(g) and Section 4.5(i) shall continue to apply until such securities otherwise cease to be Registrable Securities. In any such case, an "underwritten" offering or other disposition shall include any distribution of such securities on behalf of the Investor by one or more broker-dealers, an "underwriting agreement" shall include any purchase agreement entered into by such broker-dealers, and any "registration statement" or "prospectus" shall include any offering document approved by the Company and used in connection with such distribution.
Certain Offerings by the Investor
     (p) . The Holders agree to sell the Warrant or any portion thereof under the Shelf Registration Statement only beginning 30 days after notifying the Company of any such sale, during which 30-day period the Investor and all Holders of the Warrant shall take reasonable steps to agree to revisions to the Warrant to permit a public distribution of the Warrant, including entering into a warrant agreement and appointing a warrant agent.
Registered Sales of the Warrant
     4.6 . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the Investor shall not exercise any voting rights with respect to the Warrant Shares.
Voting of Warrant Shares
     4.7 . Upon request by the Investor at any time following the Closing Date, the Company shall promptly enter into a depositary arrangement, pursuant to customary agreements reasonably satisfactory to the Investor and with a depositary reasonably acceptable to the Investor, pursuant to which the Preferred Shares may be deposited and depositary shares, each representing a fraction of a Preferred Share as specified by the Investor, may be issued. From and after the execution of any such depositary arrangement, and the
Depositary Shares
 
deposit of any Preferred Shares pursuant thereto, the depositary shares issued pursuant thereto shall be deemed "Preferred Shares" and, as applicable, "Registrable Securities" for purposes of this Agreement.
     4.8 .
Restriction on Dividends and Repurchases
     (a) Prior to the earlier of (x) the third anniversary of the Closing Date and (y) the date on which the Preferred Shares have been redeemed in whole or the Investor has transferred all of the Preferred Shares to third parties which are not Affiliates of the Investor, neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary shall, without the consent of the Investor:
     (i) declare or pay any dividend or make any distribution on the Common Stock (other than (A) regular quarterly cash dividends of not more than the amount of the last quarterly cash dividend per share declared or, if lower, publicly announced an intention to declare, on the Common Stock prior to October 14, 2008, as adjusted for any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar transaction, (B) dividends payable solely in shares of Common Stock and (C) dividends or distributions of rights or Junior Stock in connection with a stockholders' rights plan); or
     (ii) redeem, purchase or acquire any shares of Common Stock or other capital stock or other equity securities of any kind of the Company, or any trust preferred securities issued by the Company or any Affiliate of the Company, other than (A) redemptions, purchases or other acquisitions of the Preferred Shares, (B) redemptions, purchases or other acquisitions of shares of Common Stock or other Junior Stock, in each case in this clause (B) in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business (including purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount (as defined below) pursuant to a publicly announced repurchase plan) and consistent with past practice; that any purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount shall in no event exceed the Share Dilution Amount, (C) purchases or other acquisitions by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Company solely for the purpose of market-making, stabilization or customer facilitation transactions in Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of its business, (D) purchases by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Company of capital stock of the Company for resale pursuant to an offering by the Company of such capital stock underwritten by such broker-dealer subsidiary, (E) any redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant to any stockholders' rights plan, (F) the acquisition by the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries of record ownership in Junior Stock or Parity Stock for the beneficial ownership of any other persons (other than the Company or any other Company Subsidiary), including as trustees or custodians, and (G) the exchange or conversion of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock or of Parity Stock or trust preferred securities for or into other Parity Stock (with the same or lesser aggregate liquidation amount) or Junior Stock, in each case set forth in this clause (G), solely to the extent required pursuant to binding contractual agreements entered into prior to the Signing Date or any subsequent agreement for the accelerated exercise, settlement or exchange thereof for Common Stock (clauses (C) and (F), collectively, the ""). "" means the increase in the number of diluted shares outstanding (determined in accordance with GAAP, and as measured from the date of the Company's
provided
Permitted Repurchases
Share Dilution Amount
 
most recently filed Company Financial Statements prior to the Closing Date) resulting from the grant, vesting or exercise of equity-based compensation to employees and equitably adjusted for any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar transaction.
     (b) Until such time as the Investor ceases to own any Preferred Shares, the Company shall not repurchase any Preferred Shares from any holder thereof, whether by means of open market purchase, negotiated transaction, or otherwise, other than Permitted Repurchases, unless it offers to repurchase a ratable portion of the Preferred Shares then held by the Investor on the same terms and conditions.
     (c) "" means Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Company the terms of which expressly provide that it ranks junior to the Preferred Shares as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. "" means any class or series of stock of the Company the terms of which do not expressly provide that such class or series will rank senior or junior to the Preferred Shares as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company (in each case without regard to whether dividends accrue cumulatively or non-cumulatively).
Junior Stock
Parity Stock
     4.9 .
Repurchase of Investor Securities
     (a) Following the redemption in whole of the Preferred Shares held by the Investor or the Transfer by the Investor of all of the Preferred Shares to one or more third parties not affiliated with the Investor, the Company may repurchase, in whole or in part, at any time any other equity securities of the Company purchased by the Investor pursuant to this Agreement or the Warrant and then held by the Investor, upon notice given as provided in clause (b) below, at the Fair Market Value of the equity security.
     (b) Notice of every repurchase of equity securities of the Company held by the Investor shall be given at the address and in the manner set forth for such party in Section 5.6. Each notice of repurchase given to the Investor shall state: (i) the number and type of securities to be repurchased, (ii) the Board of Director's determination of Fair Market Value of such securities and (iii) the place or places where certificates representing such securities are to be surrendered for payment of the repurchase price. The repurchase of the securities specified in the notice shall occur as soon as practicable following the determination of the Fair Market Value of the securities.
     (c) As used in this Section 4.9, the following terms shall have the following respective meanings:
     (i) "" means a procedure whereby two independent appraisers, one chosen by the Company and one by the Investor, shall mutually agree upon the Fair Market Value. Each party shall deliver a notice to the other appointing its appraiser within 10 days after the Appraisal Procedure is invoked. If within 30 days after appointment of the two appraisers they are unable to agree upon the Fair Market Value, a third independent appraiser shall be chosen within 10 days thereafter by the mutual consent of such first two appraisers. The decision of the third appraiser so appointed and
Appraisal Procedure
 
chosen shall be given within 30 days after the selection of such third appraiser. If three appraisers shall be appointed and the determination of one appraiser is disparate from the middle determination by more than twice the amount by which the other determination is disparate from the middle determination, then the determination of such appraiser shall be excluded, the remaining two determinations shall be averaged and such average shall be binding and conclusive upon the Company and the Investor; otherwise, the average of all three determinations shall be binding upon the Company and the Investor. The costs of conducting any Appraisal Procedure shall be borne by the Company.
     (ii) "" means, with respect to any security, the fair market value of such security as determined by the Board of Directors, acting in good faith in reliance on an opinion of a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained by the Company for this purpose and certified in a resolution to the Investor. If the Investor does not agree with the Board of Director's determination, it may object in writing within 10 days of receipt of the Board of Director's determination. In the event of such an objection, an authorized representative of the Investor and the chief executive officer of the Company shall promptly meet to resolve the objection and to agree upon the Fair Market Value. If the chief executive officer and the authorized representative are unable to agree on the Fair Market Value during the 10-day period following the delivery of the Investor's objection, the Appraisal Procedure may be invoked by either party to determine the Fair Market Value by delivery of a written notification thereof not later than the 30th day after delivery of the Investor's objection.
Fair Market Value
     4.10 . Until such time as the Investor ceases to own any debt or equity securities of the Company acquired pursuant to this Agreement or the Warrant, the Company shall take all necessary action to ensure that its Benefit Plans with respect to its Senior Executive Officers comply in all respects with Section 111(b) of the EESA as implemented by any guidance or regulation thereunder that has been issued and is in effect as of the Closing Date, and shall not adopt any new Benefit Plan with respect to its Senior Executive Officers that does not comply therewith. "" means the Company's "senior executive officers" as defined in subsection 111(b)(3) of the EESA and regulations issued thereunder, including the rules set forth in 31 C.F.R. Part 30.
Executive Compensation
Senior Executive Officers
     4.11 . If the Company is a Bank Holding Company or a Savings and Loan Holding Company on the Signing Date, then the Company shall maintain its status as a Bank Holding Company or Savings and Loan Holding Company, as the case may be, for as long as the Investor owns any Purchased Securities or Warrant Shares. The Company shall redeem all Purchased Securities and Warrant Shares held by the Investor prior to terminating its status as a Bank Holding Company or Savings and Loan Holding Company, as applicable. "" means a company registered as such with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "") pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1842 and the regulations of the Federal Reserve promulgated thereunder. "" means a company registered as such with the Office of Thrift Supervision pursuant to 12 U.S.C.  1467(a) and the regulations of the Office of Thrift Supervision promulgated thereunder.
Bank and Thrift Holding Company Status
Bank Holding Company
Federal Reserve
Savings and Loan Holding Company
 
     4.12 . For as long as the Investor owns any Purchased Securities or Warrant Shares, the Company, to the extent it is not itself an insured depository institution, agrees to remain predominantly engaged in financial activities. A company is predominantly engaged in financial activities if the annual gross revenues derived by the company and all subsidiaries of the company (excluding revenues derived from subsidiary depository institutions), on a consolidated basis, from engaging in activities that are financial in nature or are incidental to a financial activity under subsection (k) of Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)) represent at least 85 percent of the consolidated annual gross revenues of the company.
Predominantly Financial
     5.1 . This Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the Closing:
Termination
     (a) by either the Investor or the Company if the Closing shall not have occurred by the 30th calendar day following the Signing Date; , , that in the event the Closing has not occurred by such 30th calendar day, the parties will consult in good faith to determine whether to extend the term of this Agreement, it being understood that the parties shall be required to consult only until the fifth day after such 30th calendar day and not be under any obligation to extend the term of this Agreement thereafter; , , that the right to terminate this Agreement under this Section 5.1(a) shall not be available to any party whose breach of any representation or warranty or failure to perform any obligation under this Agreement shall have caused or resulted in the failure of the Closing to occur on or prior to such date; or
provided
however
provided
further
     (b) by either the Investor or the Company in the event that any Governmental Entity shall have issued an order, decree or ruling or taken any other action restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and such order, decree, ruling or other action shall have become final and nonappealable; or
     (c) by the mutual written consent of the Investor and the Company.
In the event of termination of this Agreement as provided in this Section 5.1, this Agreement shall forthwith become void and there shall be no liability on the part of either party hereto except that nothing herein shall relieve either party from liability for any breach of this Agreement.
     5.2 . All covenants and agreements, other than those which by their terms apply in whole or in part after the Closing, shall terminate as of the Closing. The representations and warranties of the Company made herein or in any certificates delivered in connection with the Closing shall survive the Closing without limitation.
Survival of Representations and Warranties
     5.3 . No amendment of any provision of this Agreement will be effective unless made in writing and signed by an officer or a duly authorized representative of each party; that the Investor may unilaterally amend any provision of this Agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes after the Signing Date in applicable federal statutes. No failure or delay by any party in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate
Amendment
provided
 
as a waiver thereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise of any other right, power or privilege. The rights and remedies herein provided shall be cumulative of any rights or remedies provided by law.
     5.4 . The conditions to each party's obligation to consummate the Purchase are for the sole benefit of such party and may be waived by such party in whole or in part to the extent permitted by applicable law. No waiver will be effective unless it is in a writing signed by a duly authorized officer of the waiving party that makes express reference to the provision or provisions subject to such waiver.
Waiver of Conditions
     5.5
Governing Law: Submission to Jurisdiction, Etc.
This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the federal law of the United States if and to the extent such law is applicable, and otherwise in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such State. Each of the parties hereto agrees (a) to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia and the United States Court of Federal Claims for any and all civil actions, suits or proceedings arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Warrant or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, and (b) that notice may be served upon (i) the Company at the address and in the manner set forth for notices to the Company in Section 5.6 and (ii) the Investor in accordance with federal law. To the extent permitted by applicable law, each of the parties hereto hereby unconditionally waives trial by jury in any civil legal action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the Warrant or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby.
     5.6 . Any notice, request, instruction or other document to be given hereunder by any party to the other will be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given (a) on the date of delivery if delivered personally, or by facsimile, upon confirmation of receipt, or (b) on the second business day following the date of dispatch if delivered by a recognized next day courier service. All notices to the Company shall be delivered as set forth in , or pursuant to such other instruction as may be designated in writing by the Company to the Investor. All notices to the Investor shall be delivered as set forth below, or pursuant to such other instructions as may be designated in writing by the Investor to the Company.
Notices
Schedule A
     If to the Investor:
United States Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Room 2312 Washington, D.C. 20220 Attention: Assistant General Counsel (Banking and Finance) Facsimile: (202) 622-1974
     5.7 .
Definitions
     (a) When a reference is made in this Agreement to a subsidiary of a person, the term "" means any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other entity (x) of which such person or a subsidiary of such person is a general partner or (y) of which a majority of the voting securities or other voting interests, or a majority of the securities or other
subsidiary
 
interests of which having by their terms ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or persons performing similar functions with respect to such entity, is directly or indirectly owned by such person and/or one or more subsidiaries thereof.
     (b) The term "" means, with respect to any person, any person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under common control with, such other person. For purposes of this definition, "" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "" and "") when used with respect to any person, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to cause the direction of management and/or policies of such person, whether through the ownership of voting securities by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
control
controlled by
under common control with
     (c) The terms "" or "" mean the actual knowledge after reasonable and due inquiry of the "" (as such term is defined in Rule 3b-2 under the Exchange Act, but excluding any Vice President or Secretary) of the Company.
knowledge of the Company
Company's knowledge
officers
     5.8 . Neither this Agreement nor any right, remedy, obligation nor liability arising hereunder or by reason hereof shall be assignable by any party hereto without the prior written consent of the other party, and any attempt to assign any right, remedy, obligation or liability hereunder without such consent shall be void, except (a) an assignment, in the case of a Business Combination where such party is not the surviving entity, or a sale of substantially all of its assets, to the entity which is the survivor of such Business Combination or the purchaser in such sale and (b) as provided in Section 4.5.
Assignment
     5.9 . If any provision of this Agreement or the Warrant, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remaining provisions hereof, or the application of such provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it has been held invalid or unenforceable, will remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated thereby, so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any party. Upon such determination, the parties shall negotiate in good faith in an effort to agree upon a suitable and equitable substitute provision to effect the original intent of the parties.
Severability
     5.10 . Nothing contained in this Agreement, expressed or implied, is intended to confer upon any person or entity other than the Company and the Investor any benefit, right or remedies, except that the provisions of Section 4.5 shall inure to the benefit of the persons referred to in that Section.
No Third Party Beneficiaries
 
SCHEDULE A
Company Information:
Name of the Company:
The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.
Corporate or other organizational form:
Corporation
Jurisdiction of Organization:
Delaware
Appropriate Federal Banking Agency:
Office of Thrift Supervision
Notice Information:
The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.
One Hartford Plaza
Hartford, CT 06155
Attention: Alan J. Kreczko
Facsimile: (860) 547-4721
Terms of the Purchase:
Series of Preferred Stock Purchased:
Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series E
Per Share Liquidation Preference of Preferred Stock:
$1,000
Number of Shares of Preferred Stock Purchased:
3,400,000
Dividend Payment Dates on the Preferred Stock:
February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year
Number of Initial Warrant Shares:
52,093,973
Exercise Price of the Warrant:
$9.79
Purchase Price:
$3,400,000,000
Closing:
Location of Closing:
Offices of Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP
One Battery Park Place
New York, NY 10004
Time of Closing:
9:00 A.M. EST
Date of Closing:
June 26, 2009
 
 
ANNEX A
 
ANNEX B
In consideration for the benefits I will receive as a result of my employer's participation in the United States Department of the Treasury's TARP Capital Purchase Program, I hereby voluntarily waive any claim against the United States or any state or territory thereof or my employer or any of its directors, officers, employees and agents for any changes to my compensation or benefits that are required in order to comply with Section 111 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended (""), and rules, regulations, guidance or other requirements issued thereunder (collectively, the "").
EESA
EESA Restrictions
I acknowledge that the EESA Restrictions may require modification of the employment, compensation, bonus, incentive, severance, retention and other benefit plans, arrangements, policies and agreements (including so-called "golden parachute" agreements), whether or not in writing, that I have with my employer or in which I participate as they relate to the period the United States holds any equity or debt securities of my employer acquired through the TARP Capital Purchase Program and I hereby consent to all such modifications. I further acknowledge and agree that if my employer notifies me in writing that I have received payments in violation of the EESA Restrictions, I shall repay the aggregate amount of such payments to my employer no later than fifteen business days following my receipt of such notice.
This waiver includes all claims I may have under the laws of the United States or any other jurisdiction related to the requirements imposed by the EESA Restrictions (including without limitation, any claim for any compensation or other payments or benefits I would otherwise receive absent the EESA Restrictions, any challenge to the process by which the EESA Restrictions were adopted and any tort or constitutional claim about the effect of the foregoing on my employment relationship) and I hereby agree that I will not at any time initiate, or cause or permit to be initiated on my behalf, any such claim against the United States, my employer or its directors, officers, employees or agents in or before any local, state, federal or other agency, court or body.
In witness whereof, I execute this waiver on my own behalf, thereby communicating my acceptance and acknowledgement to the provisions herein.
 
ANNEX C
 
ANNEX D

Exhibit 10.2
UST Sequence # 830               
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Reference is made to that certain Letter Agreement incorporating the Securities Purchase Agreement  Standard Terms dated of as of the date of this letter agreement (the "") between United States Department of Treasury ("") and the company named on the signature page hereto (the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Securities Purchase Agreement.
Securities Purchase Agreement
Investor
Company
     The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, as it may be amended from time to time (the ), includes provisions relating to executive compensation and other matters that may be inconsistent with the Securities Purchase Agreement, the Warrant and the Certificate(s) of Designation (the ). Accordingly, Investor and the Company desire to confirm their understanding as follows:
"Act"
"Transaction Documents"
     1. Notwithstanding anything in the Transaction Documents to the contrary, in the event that the Act or any rules or regulations promulgated thereunder are inconsistent with any of the terms of the Transaction Documents, the Act and such rules and regulations shall control.
     2. For the avoidance of doubt (and without limiting the generality of Paragraph 1):
     (a) the provisions of Section 111 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended by the Act or otherwise from time to time (), shall apply to the Company;
"EESA"
     (b) the waiver to be delivered by each of the Company's Senior Executive Officers pursuant to Section 1.2(d)(v) of the Securities Purchase Agreement shall, in addition, be delivered by any additional highly compensated employees required by applicable rules or regulations under EESA;
     (c) the Company's chief executive officer and chief financial officer shall provide the written certification of compliance by the Company with the requirements of Section 111 of EESA in the manner specified by Section 111(b)(4) thereunder or in any rules or regulations under EESA; and
     (d) the Company shall be permitted to repay preferred shares, and when such preferred shares are repaid, the Investor shall liquidate warrants associated with such preferred shares, all in accordance with the Act and any rules and regulations thereunder.
 
     From and after the date hereof, each reference in the Securities Purchase Agreement to "this Agreement" or "this Securities Purchase Agreement" or words of like import shall mean and be a reference to the Agreement (as defined in the Securities Purchase Agreement) as amended by this letter agreement.
     This letter agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the federal law of the United States if and to the extent such law is applicable, and otherwise in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such State.
     This letter agreement, the Securities Purchase Agreement, the Warrant, the Certificate(s) of Designation and any other documents executed by the parties at the Closing constitute the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof.
     Nothing in this letter agreement shall be deemed an admission by Investor as to the necessity of obtaining the consent of the Company in order to effect the changes to the Transaction Documents contemplated by this letter agreement, nor shall anything in this letter agreement be deemed to require Investor to obtain the consent of any other TARP recipient (as defined in the Act) participating in the Capital Purchase Program (the ) in order to effect changes to their documentation under the CPP.
"CPP"
     This letter agreement may be executed in any number of separate counterparts, each such counterpart being deemed to be an original instrument, and all such counterparts will together constitute the same agreement. Executed signature pages to this letter agreement may be delivered by facsimile and such facsimiles will be deemed sufficient as if actual signature pages had been delivered.
 
     In witness whereof, the parties have duly executed this letter agreement as of the date first written above.
Signature Page to ARRA Side Letter

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
The Hartford Completes Investment Agreement for Participation in the Treasury's Capital Purchase Program
Company receives $3.4 billion to further fortify its capital resources
HARTFORD, Conn., June 26, 2009 The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (NYSE: HIG) announced today that it has closed on a definitive investment agreement for its participation in the United States Department of Treasury's Capital Purchase Program (CPP) in the amount of $3.4 billion in perpetual preferred stock of the company.
"This investment further enhances our financial flexibility and our capacity to weather significant deterioration in the equity and debt markets, as well as the general economy," said Ramani Ayer, chairman and chief executive officer of The Hartford. "We have recently taken a number of critical steps to set the company on a strategic course to build value for our partners, shareholders, employees and distributors. We are pleased that rating agencies and others have responded positively to these actions and the added financial flexibility provided by the CPP investment."
Under the agreement, Treasury's investment in the company is in the form of non-voting senior preferred shares with a cumulative annual dividend of 5 percent for the first five years and 9 percent thereafter. Treasury also received warrants to purchase common stock equal to 15% of the preferred investment, or $510 million. The exercise price of the warrants is $9.79 per share, equal to the average closing price of The Hartford's common stock in the 20 trading days preceding the date of Treasury's preliminary approval of The Hartford's participation in the CPP.
"We believe that holding additional capital to protect The Hartford's franchise is ultimately in the interests of our shareholders, customers and other stakeholders," said Lizabeth Zlatkus, chief financial officer of The Hartford. "Until such time as the markets, as well as the broader economy, are on more stable footing, we believe this is the prudent course for The Hartford. In addition, our previously announced $750 million discretionary equity issuance program remains in place. As stated earlier, the program is purely discretionary and, as such, we will issue shares only as we deem appropriate. Over time, we intend to continue to opportunistically raise equity capital through the program to reduce leverage and begin to restructure our balance sheet consistent with our longer-term objectives. In line with these objectives and in light of recent conditions in the capital markets, we have chosen to limit sales under the program, issuing about 1.2 million shares to date."
 
2 
The Hartford Completes Investment Agreement for Participation in the Treasury's Capital Purchase Program
About The Continuous Equity Offering
Sales of common stock under the discretionary issuance program will be made by means of ordinary brokers' transactions on the New York Stock Exchange or otherwise at prevailing market, or negotiated, prices at the time of such sales.
The Hartford has an existing automatic shelf registration statement (including a base prospectus) on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and has filed a prospectus supplement related to the equity issuance plan described above. Prospective investors should read the registration statement (including the base prospectus), the prospectus supplement and other documents The Hartford has filed with the SEC for more complete information about The Hartford and the offering before investing. Investors may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the sales agent will arrange to send investors the base prospectus and prospectus supplement if requested by contacting Goldman, Sachs & Co., Attention: Prospectus Department, 85 Broad Street, New York, NY 10004, telephone: 866-471-2526, fax: 212-902-9316, email: .
Prospectus-ny@ny.email.gs.com
About The Hartford
Celebrating nearly 200 years, The Hartford (NYSE: HIG) is an insurance-based financial services company that serves households, businesses and employees by helping to protect their assets and income from risks, and by managing wealth and retirement needs. A Fortune 500 company, The Hartford is recognized widely for its service expertise and as one of the world's most ethical companies. More information on the company and its financial performance is available at .
www.thehartford.com
HIG-F
Some of the statements in this release may be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We caution investors that these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results may differ materially. In particular, the amount and terms of future sales under the equity issuance plan described above, if any, are not yet known. Investors should consider the important risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ. These important risks and uncertainties include those discussed in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to update this release, which speaks as of the date issued.


