FILE:HIG/HIG-8K-20091026171843.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) On October 26, 2009, The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (the "Company") announced that, subject to and effective upon the appointment of a successor, Lizabeth Zlatkus will depart the position of Chief Financial Officer and assume the position of Chief Risk Officer of the Company. A copy of the press release announcing these events is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1 Press Release of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. dated October 26, 2009.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

NEWS RELEASE
The Hartford Announces That Lizabeth Zlatkus Will Be Named Chief Risk Officer; Company Launches Search For CFO
Hartford, Conn., October 26, 2009  The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (NYSE: HIG) announced today that Lizabeth Zlatkus, the company's Chief Financial Officer, will be appointed Chief Risk Officer (CRO). In addition, the company is launching an external search for a new CFO. Zlatkus will remain in her current role until a new CFO is named, at which point she will assume her new position. Both the CFO and the CRO roles will report directly to the company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Liam E. McGee, with the CRO leading the risk management function for the corporation.
"One of the priorities I established when I became CEO of The Hartford was to elevate the role of risk management," said McGee. "We must ensure that we have the right risk processes, controls and governance to serve as our core foundation. Liz is uniquely suited for the CRO role. She has 26 years of industry and institutional knowledge, coupled with strong leadership, analytical and operational skills. We will move quickly to hire a successor to Liz for the CFO position."
About The Hartford
Celebrating nearly 200 years, The Hartford (NYSE: HIG) is an insurance-based financial services company that serves households, businesses and employees by helping to protect their assets and income from risks, and by managing wealth and retirement needs. A Fortune 500 company, The Hartford is recognized widely for its service expertise and as one of the world's most ethical companies. More information on the company and its financial performance is available at .
www.thehartford.com
HIG-F
Some of the statements in this release may be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We caution investors that these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results may differ materially. In particular, the amount and terms of future sales under the equity issuance plan described above, if any, are not yet known. Investors should consider the important risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ. These important risks and uncertainties include those discussed in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to update this release, which speaks as of the date issued.


