FILE:HIG/HIG-8K-20100331172007.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On March 31, 2010, The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (the "Company") entered into a Repurchase Letter Agreement (the "Repurchase Agreement") with the United States Department of the Treasury (the "Treasury"), pursuant to which the Company repurchased all 3,400,000 shares of its Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series E (the "Preferred Shares"), for an aggregate repurchase price of $3.4 billion plus a final accrued dividend of $21.7 million. Previously, the Company had issued and sold to the Treasury (i) the Preferred Shares and (ii) a ten-year warrant (the "Warrant") to purchase up to 52,093,973 shares of the Companys common stock (the "Common Stock"), at an initial exercise price of $9.79 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $3.4 billion in cash. The Company sold Treasury the Preferred Shares and Warrant pursuant to the terms of a Letter Agreement, dated June 26, 2009, and the Securities Purchase Agreement  Standard Terms attached thereto (collectively, th e "Securities Purchase Agreement"), as part of the Treasurys Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program. Under the terms of the Repurchase Agreement, the Company must deliver to the Treasury by April 15, 2010 either (i) a notice of intent to repurchase the Warrant or (ii) a substitute warrant in substantially the form of the Warrant, except with the deletion of Section 13(H) of the Warrant. The Company has previously announced that it does not intend to repurchase the Warrant. A copy of the Repurchase Agreement is included as an Exhibit 99.1 to this current report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On March 31, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing the preferred stock repurchase transaction described above. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01. The information furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1 Repurchase Letter Agreement, dated as of March 31, 2010, between The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and the United States Department of the Treasury. 99.2 Press release of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. dated March 31, 2010.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Letter Agreement incorporating the Securities Purchase Agreement  Standard Terms (the ""), dated as of the date set forth on Schedule A hereto, between the United States Department of the Treasury (the "") and the company set forth on Schedule A hereto (the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Securities Purchase Agreement. Pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement, at the Closing, the Company issued to the Investor the number of shares of the series of its preferred stock set forth on Schedule A hereto (the "") and a warrant to purchase the number of shares of its common stock set forth on Schedule A hereto (the "").
Securities Purchase Agreement
Investor
Company
Preferred Shares
Warrant
In connection with the consummation of the repurchase (the "") by the Company from the Investor, on the date hereof, of the number of Preferred Shares listed on Schedule A hereto (the ""), as permitted by the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009:
Repurchase
Repurchased Preferred Shares
(a) The Company hereby acknowledges receipt from the Investor of the share certificate(s) set forth on Schedule A hereto representing the Preferred Shares; and
(b) The Investor hereby acknowledges receipt from the Company of a wire transfer to the account of the Investor set forth on Schedule A hereto in immediately available funds of the aggregate purchase price set forth on Schedule A hereto, representing payment in full for the Repurchased Preferred Shares at a price per share equal to the Liquidation Amount per share, together with any accrued and unpaid dividends to, but excluding, the date hereof.
The Investor and the Company hereby agree that, notwithstanding Section 4.4 of the Securities Purchase Agreement, immediately following consummation of the Repurchase, but subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, the Investor shall be permitted to Transfer all or a portion of the Warrant or Substitute Warrant (as defined below) with respect to, and/or exercise the Warrant or Substitute Warrant for, all or a portion of the number of shares of Common Stock issuable thereunder, at any time and without limitation, and Section 4.4 of the Securities Purchase Agreement shall be deemed to be amended in order to permit the foregoing. The Company shall take all steps as may be reasonably requested by the Investor to facilitate any such Transfer.
In addition, the Company agrees that within 15 calendar days of the date hereof the Company shall either (a) deliver to the Investor a notice of intent to repurchase the Warrant in accordance with Section 4.9(b) of the Securities Purchase Agreement (the ""), or (b) issue and deliver to the Investor a new warrant, in substantially the form of the Warrant, except with the deletion of Section 13(H) thereof, to purchase the number of shares of Common Stock into which the Warrant is then exercisable (the ""), which Substitute Warrant shall be deemed the "" for all purposes under the Securities Purchase Agreement.
Warrant Repurchase Notice
Substitute Warrant
Warrant
In the event that the Company delivers a Warrant Repurchase Notice and the Company and the Investor fail to agree on the Fair Market Value of the Warrant pursuant to the procedures (including the Appraisal Procedure), and in accordance with the time periods, set forth in Section 4.9(c) of the Securities Purchase Agreement or the Company revokes the delivery of such Warrant Repurchase Notice, then the Company shall deliver a Substitute Warrant to the Investor within 5 calendar days of the earlier of the failure to agree on the Fair Market Value and the revocation of the Warrant Repurchase Notice.
Effective as of the date of receipt of the Substitute Warrant, if applicable, the Investor hereby provides notice, pursuant to Section 4.5(p) of the Securities Purchase Agreement, of its intention to sell the Substitute Warrant.
This letter agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the federal law of the United States if and to the extent such law is applicable, and otherwise in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such State.
This letter agreement may be executed in any number of separate counterparts, each such counterpart being deemed to be an original instrument, and all such counterparts will together constitute the same agreement. Executed signature pages to this letter agreement may be delivered by facsimile and such facsimiles will be deemed sufficient as if actual signature pages had been delivered.
In witness whereof, the parties have duly executed this letter agreement as of the date first written above.
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
Stability
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
SCHEDULE A
General Information:
Date of Letter Agreement incorporating the Securities Purchase Agreement:
June 26, 2009
Name of the Company:
The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.
Corporate or other organizational form of the Company:
Corporation
Jurisdiction of organization of the Company:
Delaware
Number and series of preferred stock issued to the Investor at the Closing:
3,400,000 shares of the Company's Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series E
Number of Initial Warrant Shares:
52,093,973
Terms of the Repurchase:
Number of Preferred Shares repurchased by the Company:
3,400,000
Share certificate number (representing the Preferred Shares previously issued to the Investor at the Closing):
No. 1
Per share Liquidation Amount of Preferred Shares:
$1,000
Accrued and unpaid dividends on Preferred Shares:
$21,722,222.22
Aggregate purchase price for Repurchased Preferred Shares:
$3,421,722,222.22

NEWS RELEASE
The Hartford Returns U.S. Treasury Investment
HARTFORD, Conn., March 31, 2010
The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (NYSE: HIG) today announced that it has repurchased all of The Hartford's preferred shares issued to the U.S. Department of Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program (CPP).
"We are pleased to complete our plan to return the U.S. Treasury's investment in The Hartford and appreciated the opportunity to participate in CPP and the support of the government and American taxpayers," said Liam E. McGee, The Hartford's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "With the capital raise completed and the investment repaid, we are well positioned from both a capital and balance sheet perspective."
The Hartford paid $3.4 billion to the U.S. Treasury to repurchase the preferred stock, plus a final dividend payment of about $21.7 million.
The Hartford funded the repurchase with proceeds from its recent equity and debt offerings, as well as from available resources. The U.S. Treasury continues to hold warrants to purchase approximately 52 million shares of The Hartford's common stock at an initial exercise price of $9.79 per share. The company does not intend to repurchase the warrants from the U.S. Treasury.
About The Hartford
Celebrating nearly 200 years, The Hartford (NYSE: HIG) is an insurance-based financial services company that serves households, businesses and employees by helping to protect their assets and income from risks, and by managing wealth and retirement needs. A Fortune 500 company, The Hartford is recognized widely for its service expertise and as one of the world's most ethical companies.
HIG-F
This news release shall not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
Some of the statements in this release may be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We caution investors that these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results may differ materially. Investors should consider the important risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ. These important risks and uncertainties include those discussed in our Annual Report for fiscal year 2009 on Form 10-K and the other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to update this release, which speaks as of the date issued.


