FILE:HIG/HIG-8K-20100630124117.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On June 30, 2010, The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (the "Company") announced that the employment with the Company of named executive officer John Walters will terminate, effective July 31, 2010, and that he will cease being an executive officer of the Company, effective July 1, 2010. In this connection, Mr. Walters will receive benefits, including the payment of severance, under his employment agreement with the Company, filed with the Commission on February 12, 2009 as an attachment to the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit No. 99.1 Press Release of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. dated June 30, 2010.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

NEWS RELEASE
The Hartford Names David N. Levenson President of Wealth Management
Succeeds John C. Walters who will leave the company in July
Hartford, Conn., June 30, 2010  The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (NYSE: HIG) today announced that it has named David N. Levenson President of Wealth Management, effective July 1. John C. Walters, current president of Hartford Life, will leave The Hartford at the end of July to pursue other opportunities.
"I look forward to working with Dave as we implement our go-forward strategy and officially roll out the new organizational structure on July 1," said Liam E. McGee, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of The Hartford. "Dave has a proven track record of building and managing several successful businesses at The Hartford, including launching the company's mutual funds operations and revitalizing the retirement plans business. The breadth of his experiences across the organization and his leadership skills makes him an excellent choice to lead Wealth Management."
"I want to thank John for his many contributions to The Hartford over the last ten years. He managed the wealth management businesses during a period of significant growth, led Hartford Life during a particularly challenging period, and played a strong role in the development of the company's strategy. We wish John well in his future endeavors," added McGee.
Levenson joined The Hartford in 1995 from Fidelity Investments, and since that time has worked in nearly every aspect of the company's wealth management business. He led the development of The Hartford's mutual funds operations and also ran the retirement plans business before heading the retail products business. In 2005, he joined Hartford Investment Management Company (HIMCO) as Managing Director in charge of sales and marketing.
From 2006 to 2009 he was with Hartford Life Insurance K.K., the company's Japan subsidiary, where he initially was charged with leading a turnaround as head of product and distribution and ultimately was named President and CEO. He returned from Japan in July 2009 to serve as executive vice president leading the company's in-force domestic variable annuity business and its international and institutional business segments.
Levenson earned a bachelor's degree from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania and a master's in business administration from Columbia Business School. He is a Fellow of the Society of Actuaries (FSA) and is a Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA).
About The Hartford
Celebrating 200 years of helping its customers achieve what's ahead, The Hartford (NYSE: HIG) is an insurance-based financial services company that serves households, businesses and employees by helping to protect their assets and income from risks, and by managing wealth and retirement needs. A Fortune 100 company, The Hartford is recognized widely for its service expertise and as one of the world's most ethical companies. More information on the company and its financial performance is available at .
www.thehartford.com
HIG-F HIG-L
Some of the statements in this release may be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We caution investors that these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results may differ materially. Investors should consider the important risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ. These important risks and uncertainties include those discussed in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to update this release, which speaks as of the date issued.


