FILE:HIG/HIG-8K-20120828171148.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(c) On August 28, 2012, The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (the "Company") announced that Robert H. Bateman was appointed senior vice president and controller of the Company, effective August 24, 2012. In connection with his appointment, Mr. Bateman will serve as the Companys principal accounting officer. A copy of the press release relating to Mr. Batemans appointment is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. Mr. Bateman, age 45, has held positions of increasing responsibility since joining the Company in 2004. Most recently, Mr. Bateman served as senior vice president and chief financial officer of the Company's Commercial Markets division, with responsibility for, among other things, strategy, financial planning and analysis. He previously served as chief financial officer for Claims and the Company's P&C Runoff business. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Bateman served as vice president, Internal Audit for Kaman Corporation, a public manufacturing and distribution company, and as a senior manager with KPMG LLP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1 Press release of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. dated August 28, 2012
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

NEWS RELEASE
The Hartford Promotes Robert Bateman To Senior Vice President And Controller
Bateman succeeds Beth Bombara who was recently promoted to president of Life Runoff
Hartford, Conn., Aug. 28, 2012  has promoted Robert Bateman to senior vice president and controller of the company. Bateman succeeds Beth Bombara who was recently promoted to lead The Hartford's Life Runoff business. In his new role, Bateman will be responsible for the accounting operations of the company and will report to Christopher J. Swift, executive vice president and chief financial officer of The Hartford.
The Hartford
"With his engaging leadership style and enterprise focus, Rob has been an asset for the organization since he joined The Hartford in 2004," Swift said. "His wealth of knowledge about the property and casualty industry, his strong analytic skills and his willingness to think differently are great assets as we execute on our strategic plan to focus on the property and casualty, group benefits and mutual funds businesses. I look forward to his ongoing contributions to the finance team in this new capacity."
In his previous position, Bateman was senior vice president and chief financial officer for The Hartford's Commercial Markets division. Bateman joined The Hartford in 2004 and has served in a variety of roles within the finance organization, including chief financial officer for Claims and The Hartford's P&C Runoff business. Prior to joining the company, Bateman was a senior manager at KPMG LLP and vice president, Internal Audit for Kaman Corporation.
A certified public accountant, Bateman earned a bachelor's degree in economics from the University of Massachusetts and a master's degree in business administration from the University of Connecticut. He is a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
About The Hartford
The Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (NYSE: HIG) is a leading provider of insurance and wealth management services for millions of consumers and businesses worldwide. The Hartford is consistently recognized for its superior service, its sustainability efforts and as one of the world's most ethical companies. More information on the company and its financial performance is available at . Join us on Facebook at . Follow us on Twitter at .
www.thehartford.com
www.facebook.com/TheHartford
www.twitter.com/TheHartford
HIG-C
Some of the statements in this release may be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We caution investors that these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results may differ materially. Investors should consider the important risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ. These important risks and uncertainties include those discussed in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to update this release, which speaks as of the date issued.


