FILE:HBAN/HBAN-8K-20071030145854.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
        Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
        Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
        Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
        Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Explanatory Note: This Amendment No. 1 amends the Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 1, 2007, to provide the financial statement information referred to in parts (a) and (b) of Item 9.01 below relating to the recently completed merger of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (Huntington) and Sky Financial Group, Inc. (Sky Financial).
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
     The unaudited interim financial statements of Sky Financial as of June 30, 2007, and for the six months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006 are attached as Exhibit 99.1 and are incorporated herein by reference.
     (b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information of Huntington and Sky Financial for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 and for the year ended December 31, 2006 is attached as exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     (d) Exhibits.
     The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
SKY FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
SKY FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
 
SKY FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.
(Unaudited)
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
 
SKY FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(Unaudited)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
.
SKY FINANCIAL GROUP, INC
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited)
(Dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data)
1. Accounting Policies
Sky Financial Group, Inc. (Sky Financial) is a financial holding company headquartered in Bowling Green, Ohio, that owns and operates Sky Bank which is primarily engaged in the commercial and consumer banking business in Ohio, southern Michigan, western Pennsylvania, northern West Virginia and central Indiana. Sky Financial also operates businesses relating to insurance, trust and other related financial services.
The accounting and reporting policies followed by Sky Financial conform in all material respects to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (US GAAP) and to general practices within the financial services industry. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with US GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The allowance for credit losses and fair values of financial instruments and mortgage servicing rights are particularly subject to change.
These condensed consolidated unaudited interim financial statements are prepared without an audit and reflect all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which, in the opinion of management, are necessary to present fairly the consolidated financial position of Sky Financial at June 30, 2007, and its results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented. In accordance with US GAAP for interim financial information, these statements do not include certain information and footnote disclosures required for complete annual financial statements. Sky Financial's Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2006, contains consolidated financial statements and related notes which should be read in conjunction with the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements. The results of operations for the interim periods disclosed herein are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for a full year.
New Accounting Pronouncements
In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, (FIN 48), which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in tax positions. This Interpretation requires that Sky Financial recognize in the financial statements, the impact of a tax position, if that position is more likely than not to be sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. The provisions of FIN 48 were effective as of the beginning of our 2007 fiscal year, with the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle recorded as an adjustment to opening retained earnings. The cumulative change in accounting recorded directly to retained earnings and the effect on 2007 income from operations was not material.
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes: An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109
In February 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, (FAS 159)FAS 159 provides companies with an option to select financial assets and liabilities to be reported at fair value. FAS 159's objective is to reduce both complexity in accounting for financial instruments and the volatility in earnings caused by measuring related assets and liabilities differently. FAS 159 also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between companies that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. FAS 159 requires companies to provide additional information that will help investors and other users of financial statements to more easily understand the effect of the company's choice to use fair value on its earnings. It also requires entities to display the fair value of those assets and liabilities for which the company has chosen to use fair value on the face of the balance sheet. FAS 159 is effective as of the beginning of an entity's first fiscal year beginning after November 15, 2007. Early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of the previous fiscal year provided that the entity makes that choice in the first 120 days of that fiscal year and also elects to apply the provisions of Statement 157. Sky Financial did not early adopt FAS 159.
The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
.
In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, (FAS 157). FAS 157 enhances existing guidance for measuring assets and liabilities using fair value. Prior to the issuance of FAS 157, guidance for applying fair value was incorporated in several accounting pronouncements. FAS 157 provides a single definition of fair value, together with a framework for measuring it, and requires additional disclosure about the use of fair value to measure assets and liabilities. FAS 157 also emphasizes that fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-specific measurement, and sets out a fair value hierarchy with the highest priority being quoted prices in active markets. Under FAS 157, fair value measurements are disclosed by level within that hierarchy. While FAS 157 does not add any new fair value measurements, it does
Fair Value Measurements
 
change current practice. Changes to practice include: (1) a requirement for an entity to include its own credit standing in the measurement of its liabilities; (2) a modification of the transaction price presumption; (3) a prohibition on the use of block discounts when valuing large blocks of securities for broker-dealers and investment companies; and (4) a requirement to adjust the value of restricted stock for the effect of the restriction, even if the restriction lapses within one year. FAS 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Sky Financial has not determined the impact of adopting FAS 157 on its financial statements.
2. Stock Based Compensation
The following table illustrates the total stock compensation expense recorded in salaries and employee benefits expense for the six months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006:
In accordance with the change in control provisions of the Sky Financial stock option plans, all remaining restricted shares and stock options were vested in June 2007 prior to the July acquisition of Sky Financial by Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (Huntington). These change of control provisions resulted in additional expense of $6,635 during 2007 included above.
There were no stock options or restricted shares issued in the first half of 2007. In the first quarter of 2006, 157 shares of restricted stock and 677 stock options were granted to directors, officers and employees under various restricted stock and stock option plans.
3. Critical Accounting Policies
The accounting and reporting policies of Sky Financial are in accordance with USGAAP and conform to general practices within the financial services industry. Accounting and reporting policies for the allowance for credit losses and mortgage servicing rights are deemed critical since they involve the use of estimates and require significant management judgments. Application of assumptions different than those used by management could result in material changes in Sky Financial's financial position or results of operations. Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies), Note 4 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) and Note 20 (Mortgage Banking Activities), of the 2006 Annual Report and Form 10-K, provide detail with regard to Sky Financial's accounting for the allowance for loan losses and for mortgage servicing rights. There have been no significant changes in the application of accounting policies since December 31, 2006.
4. Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures
Huntington Merger
On July 1, 2007, Huntington completed its merger with Sky Financial in a stock and cash transaction valued at $3.5 billion.
Under the terms of the merger agreement, Sky Financial shareholders received 1.098 shares of Huntington common stock, on a tax-free basis, and a cash payment of $3.023 for each share of Sky Financial common stock.
 
5. Securities
The unrealized gains and losses and estimated fair values at June 30, 2007 are as follows:
The decrease in the overall securities available for sale was a result of Sky Financial restructuring its balance sheet in anticipation of the merger with Huntington. In June 2007, Sky Financial sold securities in anticipation of the merger with a book value of $2,062,730 and received proceeds of $1,990,694. The resulting loss of $72,036 was recorded as a component of net securities losses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the six months ended June 30, 2007.
As of June 30, 2007, management has evaluated all other investment securities with unrealized losses and all non-marketable securities for impairment. The unrealized losses were caused by interest rate increases and other market related conditions. The contractual terms and/or cash flows of the investments do not permit the issuer to settle the securities at a price less than the amortized cost. Management has the intent and ability to hold these investment securities until the fair value is recovered, which may be maturity, and therefore, does not consider them to be other-than-temporarily impaired at June 30, 2007.
6. Loans
The loan portfolio was as follows:
 
The following table presents the aggregate amounts of non-performing loans at June 30, 2007
Non-accrual loans include $15,429 of loans at June 30, 2007 that are secured by surety bonds and the assignment of payment streams from pools of commercial leases for which payment is over 90 days past due. See Note 15 "Commitments and Contingencies" for additional discussion.
7. Borrowings
Sky Financial's debt, FHLB advances and junior subordinated debentures owed to unconsolidated subsidiary trusts are comprised of the following:
The amount of junior subordinated debentures owed to unconsolidated subsidiary trusts represent the par value adjusted for any unamortized discount.
 
8. Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
Other comprehensive income (loss) consisted of the following:
9. Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares outstanding less the weighted average unvested restricted shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted average number of shares determined for the basic computation in addition to the dilutive effect of potential common shares issuable under stock options and the restricted shares. For the six months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, 860 and 1,705 weighted average shares, respectively, under option were excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation as they were anti-dilutive. Certain amounts do not add due to rounding.
 
10. Capital Resources
The FRB has established risk-based capital guidelines that must be observed by financial holding companies and banks. Failure to meet specified minimum capital requirements can result in certain mandatory actions by primary regulators of Sky Financial and its bank subsidiary that could have a material effect on Sky Financial's financial condition or results of operations. Under capital adequacy guidelines, Sky Financial and its bank subsidiary must meet specific quantitative measures of their assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items as determined under regulatory accounting practices. Sky Financial's and its bank's capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. Management believes, as of June 30, 2007, that Sky Financial and its bank meet all capital adequacy requirements to which they are subject.
Sky Financial and its bank have been notified by their respective regulators that, as of the most recent regulatory examinations, each is regarded as well capitalized under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action. Such determinations have been made evaluating Sky Financial and its bank under Tier I, total capital, and leverage ratios. There are no conditions or events since these notifications that management believes have changed any of the well capitalized categorizations of Sky Financial and its bank subsidiary.
Sky Financial's and Sky Bank's capital ratios are presented in the following table:
 
11. Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Goodwill at June 30, 2007 was $731,102. Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment. In the first six months of 2007, Sky Financial recorded additional goodwill of $1,031 related to the acquisition of an insurance agency and an additional $1,811 related to previous acquisitions. Additionally, certain goodwill balances originally recorded to the Community Banking line of business were reclassified to the Financial Services Affiliates line of business when the purchase price allocation was finalized.
Net other intangible assets at June 30, 2007 were $65,902. These assets consist primarily of core deposit intangibles and customer relationship intangibles and are being amortized in accordance with Sky Financial's accounting policies. Amortization expense on finite-lived intangible assets is expected to be $8,577 for the remainder of 2007, with $16,161; $13,610; $11,758; $10,411 and $5,385 expected to be recorded in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2012, respectively. These charges are exclusive of any changes in amortization due to future acquisitions.
12. Line of Business Reporting
Sky Financial manages and operates two major lines of business: community banking and financial services. Community banking includes lending and related services to businesses and consumers, mortgage banking and deposit-gathering. Other financial services consist of non-banking companies engaged in trust and wealth management, insurance and other financial-related services.
The reported line of business results reflect the underlying core operating performance within the business units. Parent and Other is comprised of the parent company and several smaller business units. It includes the net funding cost of the parent company and intercompany eliminations. Expenses for centrally provided services and support are allocated based principally upon estimated usage of services. All merger, integration and restructuring charges company-wide are included in Parent and Other. Substantially all of Sky Financial's assets are part of the community banking line of business.
 
Selected segment information for the six months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006 is included in the following tables:
 
13. Commitments and Contingencies
In re Commercial Money Center, Inc. Equipment Lease Litigation in the U. S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, Eastern Division, MDL Case No. 1:02-CV-16000
Between August 2000 and December 2001, Sky Bank and two of its predecessor banks provided financing to a commercial borrower and its affiliated entities for the purchase of six separate portfolios of commercial lease pools, and a warehouse line of credit to finance lease pools. These loans are secured by assignments of the payment streams from the underlying leases, surety bonds or insurance policies, and a limited guarantee from the sole member of the commercial borrower.
Upon default of these commercial loans, Sky Bank (and its predecessors) made demand for payment from Illinois Union Insurance Company ("IU"), RLI Insurance Company ("RLI"), and Royal Indemnity Company ("Royal") under the relevant surety bonds and insurance policies. IU, RLI, and Royal (collectively, the "Sureties") have failed to make the payments required under the surety bonds and insurance policies. As a result, in the spring of 2002, Sky Financial and its predecessors filed suit against each of the Sureties seeking to enforce Sky Bank's rights under the surety bonds and insurance policies issued by the Sureties in connection with the commercial lease pools. Sky Financial's complaints claim breach of contract, bad faith and allege that the Sureties are liable for the payments due to Sky Financial under the terms of the bonds and are estopped from asserting fraud as a defense to paying any claims under the bonds. In October, 2002, the suits were consolidated for pretrial purposes with more than 35 other lawsuits involving similar claims in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, Eastern Division, under the Federal Multi-district Litigation ("MDL") Rules.
The key defense of the Sureties in denying Sky Bank's claims under the surety bonds is that they were fraudulently induced by the originator of the commercial leases to issue the surety bonds in the first instance. The Sureties have also asserted related defenses that the underlying equipment leases are invalid, usurious, or otherwise unenforceable. Sky Bank believes that none of these defenses can defeat Sky Bank's claims under the surety bonds, which, in the view of Sky Bank, provide for absolute and unconditional guarantees of payment. Moreover, Sky Bank believes that the Sureties are responsible to Sky Bank, as the Obligee or Named Insured under the bonds, for the underwriting of the lessees and leases, including all issues of fraud, and that the Sureties waived any defense of fraud to claims under the bonds.
On December 21, 2005, Sky Financial sold and assigned to a third party, without recourse, all of its rights and interests in three loans secured by commercial lease pools and surety bonds issued by Royal. On March 31, 2006, Sky Financial and IU settled in full its litigation pertaining to two loans secured by pools of leases and insurance policies issued by IU. The aggregate principal balance of the three loans sold to a third party and the two loans which were settled was $14.2 million, and the aggregate proceeds received by Sky Financial in the sale and the settlement was $14.9 million.
The remaining pool and the warehouse line of credit secured by surety bonds issued by RLI was settled by Huntington on July 2, 2007, resulting in no material impact.
American Home Mortgage Corp. v. Union Federal Bank of Indianapolis, Case No. 06-CV-7864 (JGK) (RLE), U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
Prior to its acquisition by Sky Financial, Waterfield Mortgage Company, Incorporated ("Waterfield") sold its mortgage banking business to American Home Mortgage Corp. ("American Home"). As part of the sale agreement, an escrow in the amount of $55 million was established and any purchase price adjustment associated with the sale of the mortgage banking business was to be deducted from the escrow. Waterfield and American Home were unable to reach agreement as to the purchase price adjustment, and American Home filed the captioned lawsuit against Waterfield's subsidiary, Union Federal Bank (UFB), for breach of contract, negligent misrepresentation and declaratory and injunctive relief, and has made a claim for relief in excess of $29 million.
Sky Financial completed its acquisition of Waterfield on October 17, 2006, and as a result, has become a party in interest in the litigation. Sky Financial, in conjunction with the former shareholders of Waterfield to the extent of their respective interests in the escrow, have filed, inter alia, a motion to dismiss the action as well a motion to substitute the entity representing Waterfield shareholders in place of Union Federal Bank as the party in interest in the litigation.
Prior to the sale to American Home, all loans were closed in the name of UFB or in the name of Waterfield and then assigned to UFB. Since UFB is the listed mortgagee, all investor claims are coming to Sky Financial as successor. Per the sale agreement all claims related to sold mortgage loans were to be submitted to American Home for reimbursement.
In addition to the large escrow discussed above, Sky was provided with a broad indemnity agreement from American Home as part of the sale agreement and a $6.7 million new escrow. To the extent that the escrow did not satisfy the outstanding claims Sky also negotiated the ability to make a claim against the $55 million escrow. Sky has been submitting claims to American Home since October 2006 under the broad indemnity agreement, but has not received any payment on the claims, therefore the new escrow account has been used to satisfy the claims. American Home filed for bankruptcy in August 2007, therefore it is unlikely the American Home indemnity will provide any reimbursement on claims. In addition, management believes the bankruptcy trustee will attempt to make a claim for some or all of the $55 million escrow.
After consultation with special counsel, Sky Financial believes that it has substantial and meritorious defenses and that exposure, if any, should be absorbed by the escrow, and as such is not expected to have a material effect on the consolidated financial position or results of operations of Sky Financial. American Home filed for bankruptcy in August 2007.
A schedule of significant commitments at June 30, 2007 follows:
On March 31, 2004, Sky Financial completed the sale of its dental financing affiliate, Sky Financial Solutions. The Sky Financial Solutions sales agreement contained a contingency based upon future charge-offs between Sky Financial and the acquirer. In the second quarter of 2007, Sky Financial renegotiated the sale agreement and removed the sales agreement contingency. The resulting after tax gain of $1,763 is included as earnings from discontinued operations for the six months ended June 30, 2007.

 
Exhibit 99.2
The following Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Consolidated Statements of Income for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 and year ended December 31, 2006, combine the historical consolidated statements of income of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated and its subsidiaries (Huntington) and Sky Financial Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (Sky Financial), giving effect to the merger as if the merger had become effective at January 1, 2006 as an acquisition by Huntington of Sky Financial using the purchase method of accounting and giving effect to the related pro forma adjustments described in the accompanying Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Consolidated Financial Statements included herein are presented for informational purposes only. This information includes various estimates and may not necessarily be indicative of the results of operations that would have occurred if the merger had been consummated on that date or at the beginning of the period indicated or which may be attained in the future. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statements of income and accompanying notes should be read in conjunction with and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the historical financial statements and related notes thereto of Huntington and its subsidiaries and Sky Financial and its subsidiaries, such information and notes thereto incorporated by reference herein.
The historical consolidated statements of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 and year ended December 31, 2006, of Huntington and its subsidiaries and Sky Financial and its subsidiaries include a number of items that impacted the respective results for each company, including:
For the nine months ended September 30, 2007:
 
For the year ended December 31, 2006:
 
We anticipate that the merger will provide the combined company with financial benefits that include reduced operating expenses. The pro forma information, while helpful in illustrating the financial characteristics of the combined company under one set of assumptions, does not reflect the benefits of expected cost savings or opportunities to earn additional revenue and, accordingly, does not attempt to predict or suggest future results. It also does not necessarily reflect what the historical results of the combined company would have been had our companies been combined during these periods.
 
 
 
Note 1. Basis of Presentation
The merger was accounted for as an acquisition by Huntington of Sky Financial using the purchase method of accounting and, accordingly, the assets and liabilities of Sky Financial were recorded at their respective fair values on the date the merger was completed. The merger was effected by the issuance of Huntington $0.01 par value common stock to Sky Financial shareholders. Each share of Sky Financial common stock was exchanged for 1.098 shares of Huntington common stock plus cash consideration of $3.023. The shares of Huntington common stock issued to effect the merger were recorded at $23.85 per share. This amount was determined by averaging the closing price of shares of Huntington common stock over a five-day period beginning two days before the date the merger was announced and ending two days after the date the merger was announced. The pro forma adjustments included herein are subject to change as additional information becomes available and as additional analyses are performed.
The pro forma financial information for the merger is included only for the nine month period ended September 30, 2007 and year ended December 31, 2006. The combined pro forma income statement for the nine month period ended September 30, 2007, includes Huntington's historical results of operations for all nine months, and Sky Financial results of operations subsequent to the merger date, July 1, 2007.
The unaudited pro forma information is not necessarily indicative of the results of income or the combined financial position that would have resulted had the merger been completed at the beginning of the applicable period presented, nor is it necessarily indicative of the results of operations in future periods or the future financial position of the combined company.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the income statement of Sky Financial to conform to Huntington's presentation.
Note 2. Pro Forma Statement of Income
The pro forma condensed combined consolidated statements of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 and year ended December 31, 2006, include adjustments for the accretion / amortization of fair value adjustments made to loans, securities, interest-bearing deposits and long-term borrowings. They also include an
 
adjustment for the amortization of the estimated identifiable intangible assets. The amortization or accretion of the purchase accounting adjustments made to securities, loans, interest-bearing deposits, and long-term borrowings is based on the weighted average maturities, using the interest method for recognition. The amortization of identifiable intangible assets was estimated using a 10 to 16 year, sum-of-the-years digits method. Using this method, amortization is expected to be $92.7 million in the first year, $78.1 million in the second year, $54.0 million in the third year, $42.3 million in the fourth year, $33.0 million in the fifth year, and $74.2 million thereafter. The adjustment for pro forma amortization expense for the nine month period ended September 30, 2007, includes $39.1 million of new amortization expense less Sky Financial's historical amortization expense of $9.0 million. The adjustment for pro forma amortization expense for the year ended December 31, 2006, includes $92.7 million of new amortization expense less Sky Financial's historical amortization expense of $15.8 million.
The estimated restructuring and merger-related expenses discussed in Note 3 are not included in the pro forma statement of income since they will be recorded in the combined results of income as they are incurred after completion of the merger and are not indicative of what the historical results of the combined company would have been had the companies been actually combined during the periods presented.
Additionally, Huntington currently estimates that it will realize approximately $115 million in annual cost savings following the merger, which Huntington expects to be phased in subsequent to the merger, but there is no assurance that the anticipated cost savings will be realized on the anticipated time schedule or at all. These cost savings are not fully reflected in the pro forma financial information.
The impact of conforming Sky Financial's accounting policy to reflect the adoption of FASB Statement No. 156 has not been included in the pro forma financial results as the impact on the income statement is not material.
Huntington issued $250 million in new debt in connection with the merger. This new debt qualifies as bank regulatory capital and has an interest rate of 6.65%, resulting in an increase to annual interest expense of $16.6 million.
 
Note 3. Merger Costs
In connection with the merger, Huntington and Sky Financial have developed their plans to consolidate the operations of Huntington and Sky Financial. Huntington and Sky Financial have assessed the two companies' personnel, benefit plans, premises, equipment, computer systems and service contracts and determined where we may take advantage of redundancies or where it may be beneficial or necessary to convert to one system.
Certain decisions arising from these assessments involved, among other things, involuntary termination of Sky Financial's employees, vacating Sky Financial's leased premises, terminating contracts between Sky Financial and certain service providers and selling or otherwise disposing of certain premises, furniture and equipment owned by Sky Financial. The costs associated with such decisions will be recorded as purchase accounting adjustments, which have the effect of increasing the amount of the purchase price allocable to excess purchase price. It is expected that all such costs will be identified and recorded within one year of completion of the merger and all such actions required to effect these decisions would be taken within one year after finalization of these plans.
In addition to decisions regarding Sky Financial's employees and activities, certain decisions were made to, among other things, involuntarily terminate Huntington employees, vacate Huntington leased premises, cancel contracts and sell or otherwise dispose of certain premises, furniture and equipment owned by Huntington. These exit and disposal costs have been recorded in accordance with , in the results of income of the combined company in the period incurred. Huntington has also incurred merger-related expenses in the process of combining the operations of the two companies. These merger-related expenses include system conversion costs, employee retention arrangements and costs of incremental communications to customers and others.
Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
It is expected that the exit and disposal costs, along with the merger-related costs, will be incurred over a two-year period after completion of the merger. For the nine month period ended September 30, 2007, these merger related costs total $40.7 million. It is anticipated that the total merger costs for Huntington will approximate $55 million to $65 million. Other merger costs were recorded by Sky Financial or were recorded as purchase accounting adjustments. We have not included an estimate for these in the pro forma statement of income since these costs will be recorded in the combined results of income as they are incurred after completion of the merger and are not indicative of what the historical results of Huntington would have been had Huntington and Sky Financial actually been combined during the periods presented.


