FILE:HBAN/HBAN-8K-20070621130001.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
At a meeting on June 20, 2007, the Board of Directors of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated ("Huntington"), in anticipation of, and to be effective upon, the merger (the "Merger") of Sky Financial Group, Inc. with and into Penguin Acquisition, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Huntington ("Merger Sub"), as contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated December 20, 2006 among Huntington, Sky and Merger Sub (the "Merger Agreement"), increased the size of the Board from ten directors to fifteen directors and filled the vacancies created thereby. The Merger is expected to be completed on July 1, 2007. The Merger Agreement provides that as of the effective time of the Merger, Huntingtons Board of Directors will consist of fifteen members: Thomas E. Hoaglin, Huntingtons Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, nine non-employee directors of Huntington, Marty E. Adams, Sky Financial Group, Inc.s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and four non-employee directors of Sky Fi nancial Group, Inc. The five new directors appointed effective upon the completion of the Merger will be: Mr. Adams serving as a Class III Director having a term expiring in 2008, D. James Hilliker and Jonathan A. Levy serving as Class I Directors having terms expiring in 2009, and Marylouise Fennell and Gerard P. Mastroianni serving as Class II Directors having terms expiring in 2010. The Board has not yet determined to which committees of the board the new directors may be named and also has not yet determined whether there are any related party transactions to report with respect to the new directors. Huntington will amend this report after any committee appointments are made and, if necessary, to report any related party transactions. As previously described in Huntingtons joint proxy statement/prospectus filed on April 19, 2007, Huntington has entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Adams, effective upon the completion of the Merger. Mr. Adams will be employed as Presi dent and Chief Operating Officer until December 31, 2009, or until such earlier time as Mr. Hoaglin may cease to be Chief Executive Officer, and as President and Chief Executive Officer thereafter until Huntingtons annual meeting of shareholders in 2011. The employment agreement provides for a lump sum payment of $4 million, to be paid to Mr. Adams within 30 days after the completion of the Merger, and a grant to Mr. Adams, as of the date of the completion of the Merger, of that number of restricted shares of Huntington common stock with a fair market value, as of the grant date, equal to approximately $5,038,489. The restricted stock award will vest in equal monthly installments at the end of each calendar month from the completion of the Merger through December 31, 2009. A copy of the employment agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On June 20, 2007, Huntington issued a press release announcing the expected closing date of the Merger and the appointment of five new members to the Board of Directors of Huntington, effective upon consummation of the Merger. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit No. - Description 10.1 Employment Agreement dated December 20, 2006 between Marty E. Adams and Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed February 26, 2007). 99.1 News Release of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, dated June 20, 2007
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

NEWSRELEASE
June 20, 2007
COLUMBUS, Ohio  Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (NASDAQ: HBAN) today announced that July 1, 2007, is the targeted effective date for its merger of Sky Financial Group, Inc. (NASDAQ:SKYF). This merger was originally announced December 20, 2006.
The Huntington board of directors also announced the election of five current Sky Financial board members to the Huntington board as of the effective date of the merger. Per terms of the merger agreement, and following the completion of the merger, Huntington's board will have 15 members consisting of 10 existing Huntington board members and five former Sky Financial board members. Those board members elected were: Marty Adams, who will become President and Chief Operating Officer; Marylouise Fennell, RSM, Partner, Higher Education Services; D. James Hilliker, Vice President, Better Food Systems, Inc.; Jonathan A. Levy, Partner, Redstone Investments; and Gerard P. Mastroianni, President, Alliance Ventures.
2B
About Huntington
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated is a $35 billion regional bank holding company headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. Through its affiliated companies, Huntington has more than 141 years of serving the financial needs of its customers. Huntington provides innovative retail and commercial financial products and services through 375 regional banking offices in Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio, and West Virginia. Huntington also offers retail and commercial financial services online at huntington.com; through its technologically advanced, 24-hour telephone bank; and through its network of over 1,000 ATMs. Selected financial service activities are also conducted in other states including: Dealer Sales offices in Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, and Tennessee; Private Financial and Capital Markets Group offices in Florida; and Mortgage Banking offices in Maryland and New Jersey. International banking services are made available through the headquarters office in Columbus, a limited purpose office located in the Cayman Islands, and another located in Hong Kong. The company is located on the web at www.huntington.com.
0B
About Sky Financial Group
Sky Financial Group is a $17.6 billion diversified financial holding company. Sky's asset size places it among the 40 largest publicly-held bank holding companies in the nation. Sky operates over 330 financial centers and over 400 ATMs, serving communities in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Indiana and West Virginia. Sky's financial service affiliates include: Sky Bank, commercial and retail banking; Sky Trust, asset management services; and Sky Insurance, retail and commercial insurance agency services. The company is located on the web at www.skyfi.com.
Forward-looking Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements. By their nature, forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Huntington assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect circumstances or events that occur after the date the forward-looking statements were made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.


