FILE:HBAN/HBAN-8K-20071018105431.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
(614) 480-8300
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On October 18, 2007, Huntington Bancshares Incorporated ("Huntington") issued a news release announcing its earnings for the quarter ended September 30, 2007. Also on October 18, 2007, Huntington made a Quarterly Financial Review available on its web site, .
www.huntington-ir.com
     Huntington's senior management will host an earnings conference call October 18, 2007, at 1:00 p.m. EST. The call may be accessed via a live Internet webcast at or through a dial-in telephone number at 800-223-1238; conference ID 17065118. Slides will be available at just prior to 1:00 p.m. EST on October 18, 2007, for review during the call. A replay of the web cast will be archived in the Investor Relations section of Huntington's web site at . A telephone replay will be available two hours after the completion of the call through October 31, 2007, at 800-642-1687; conference call ID 17065118.
www.huntington-ir.com
www.huntington-ir.com
www.huntington-ir.com
     The information contained or incorporated by reference in this Current Report on Form 8-K contains certain forward-looking statements, including certain plans, expectations, goals, and projections, and including statements about the benefits of the merger between Huntington and Sky Financial Group, Inc. (Sky), which are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those contained or implied by such statements for a variety of factors including: the expected cost savings and any revenue synergies from the merger may not be fully realized within the expected timeframes; disruption from the merger may make it more difficult to maintain relationships with clients, associates, or suppliers; changes in economic conditions; movements in interest rates; competitive pressures on product pricing and services; success and timing of other business strategies; the nature, extent, and timing of governmental actions and reforms; and extended disruption of vital infrastructure; and other factors described in Huntington's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and documents subsequently filed by Huntington with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements included in this Current Report on Form 8-K are based on information available at the time of the Report. Huntington assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Table of Contents
     The 2007 fourth quarter earnings guidance provided in the news release is not presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) because it excludes merger related integration costs, as Management considers these costs to be unusual. Below is the guidance based upon GAAP.
     The information contained or incorporated by reference in Item 2.02 of this Form 8-K shall be treated as "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     The exhibits referenced below shall be treated as "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
(d) Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1  News release of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, dated October 18, 2007. Exhibit 99.2  Quarterly Financial Review, September 2007.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 18, 2007
     COLUMBUS, Ohio  Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (NASDAQ: HBAN; ) reported 2007 third quarter earnings of $138.2 million, or $0.38 per common share. Earnings in the year-ago third quarter were $157.4 million, or $0.65 per common share.
www.huntington.com
     Earnings in the current and year-ago quarters were impacted by several significant items . The 2007 third quarter earnings were negatively impacted by $0.09 per share, reflecting the combination of merger costs associated with the acquisition of Sky Financial Group, Inc. (Sky Financial) on July 1, 2007, and net market-related losses. In contrast, the year-ago quarter was positively impacted by a net $0.18 per common share, reflecting a reduction of federal income tax expense, partially offset by the negative impacts of a securities impairment related to a balance sheet restructuring initiative, as well as an adjustment for equity method investments.
(see Table 1)
     Earnings for the first nine months of 2007 were $314.4 million, or $1.12 per common share, compared with $373.5 million, or $1.56 per common share, for the comparable year-ago period.
Sky Financial Group, Inc. Acquisition Impact
     The acquisition of Sky Financial on July 1, 2007, significantly affected reported results. Sky Financial was approximately half the size of Huntington before its acquisition. As such, its acquisition significantly increased the absolute levels of 2007 third quarter reported balance sheet items (e.g., loans, deposits, etc.), and income statement items (e.g., net interest income, non-interest income, non-interest expenses, and taxes). It also affected the relative level of other performance metrics such as the net interest margin, efficiency ratio, and credit performance metrics like reserve ratios, etc. To assist in understanding the impacts of the merger, as well as
 
performance not attributable to the merger, when comparing 2007 third quarter performance to that of prior periods, the following terms are used:
PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW
     Performance compared with the 2007 second quarter included:
 
     "The Sky Financial acquisition significantly impacted overall performance and materially affected comparisons of our third quarter performance to that in prior periods," said Thomas E. Hoaglin, chairman and chief executive officer. "Yet, when you adjust for all merger related impacts, underlying performance basically matched or exceeded our expectations. The only exception was our net market-related losses, which reflected the severity of market pricing volatility during the quarter. We believe we have appropriately addressed the valuation of our market-related assets, given where we are today and our current expectations."
     "The major highlight of the quarter was the successful Sky Financial systems conversion over the September 22 weekend," he continued. "Accomplishing this conversion in less than 90 days after the merger closed was a significant accomplishment. It was an aggressive timetable and its success reflected a huge team effort and the culmination of endless hours of preparation. The fact that we were able to generate good loan and deposit growth at the same time we were going through the largest merger integration we have ever undertaken is a testimony to the unified spirit that focused every associate on the needs of our customers. Importantly, we also achieved over 70% of the targeted total annualized expense efficiencies in the third quarter. After considering all significant items and merger related impact, we estimate that our adjusted efficiency ratio for the quarter was just above our 50%-52% targeted range. We are also excited that, as a result of the merger, about 40% of our deposit base is now in markets where we have the number one market share. This portends well for our ability to grow earnings by focusing on serving our expanded customer base and actively pursuing the growth opportunities this merger affords us."
nd
     "With all of the turmoil in credit markets, we were pleased with our underlying credit quality performance. Net charge-offs were a bit higher than expected, but this primarily reflected charge-offs on the three commercial credits for which we had already established reserves in the prior quarter. Our overall net charge-off outlook for the year has not changed materially. The non-merger related increase in the level of non-performing assets was also basically in line with our expectations, and we are pursuing opportunities that might permit us to move some of these off our balance sheet before the end of the year. The outlook for the fourth quarter is that non-performing loans will rise modestly as there remains pressure on businesses and consumers in our markets," he concluded.
THIRD QUARTER PERFORMANCE DISCUSSION
Significant Items Influencing Financial Performance Comparisons
     Specific significant items impacting 2007 third quarter performance included :
(see Table 1 below)
 
     Partially offset by:
Table 1  Significant Items Impacting Earnings Performance Comparisons
(1)
 
Net Interest Income, Net Interest Margin, and Average Balance Sheet
2007 Third Quarter versus 2006 Third Quarter
     Fully taxable equivalent net interest income increased $155.9 million from the year-ago quarter. This reflected the favorable impact of a $14.9 billion increase in average earning assets, of which $13.5 billion represented an increase in average loans and leases, as well as the benefit of an increase in the fully taxable equivalent net interest margin of 30 basis points to 3.52%. These increases were primarily merger related. Table 2 details the $13.5 billion reported increase in average loans and leases.
 
Table 2  Loans and Leases  3Q07 vs. 3Q06
 
     The $0.7 billion, or 2%, non-merger related increase primarily reflected:
Partially offset by:
     Also contributing to the growth in average earning assets was a $1.1 billion increase in average trading account securities. The increase in these assets reflected a change in our strategy to use trading account securities to hedge the change in fair value of our mortgage servicing rights (MSR).
     The 3.52% net interest margin in the current period was consistent with our expectations for a relatively stable net interest margin compared with the pro forma 2007 second quarter level of 3.50%.
     Table 3 details the $13.1 billion reported increase in average deposits.
Table 3  Deposits  3Q07 vs. 3Q06
 
     Most of the increase in average total deposits was merger related. The $0.2 billion non-merger related increase reflected:
 
Partially offset by:
2007 Third Quarter versus 2007 Second Quarter
     Compared with the 2007 second quarter, fully taxable equivalent net interest income increased $157.8 million. This reflected the favorable impact of a $15.2 billion increase in average earning assets, of which $13.4 billion represented an increase in average loans and leases, as well as the benefit of an increase in the fully taxable equivalent net interest margin of 26 basis points to 3.52%. These increases were primarily merger related. Table 4 details the $13.4 billion reported increase in average loans and leases.
Table 4  Loans and Leases  3Q07 vs. 2Q07
 
     The $0.6 billion, or 1%, non-merger related increase in average total loans and leases primarily reflected 2% growth in average total commercial loans due to continued strong growth in middle-market commercial and industrial (C&I) loans. Average total consumer loans increased 1% with most categories essentially unchanged.
     Also contributing to the growth in average earning assets were increases of $0.9 billion in average trading account securities and $0.7 billion in average investment securities. These increases were primarily merger related.
     Table 5 details the $13.4 billion reported increase in average deposits.
 
Table 5  Deposits  3Q07 vs. 2Q07
 
     Of the $13.4 billion increase in average total deposits, $12.9 billion was merger related. The $0.5 billion, or 1%, non-merger related increase reflected:
Provision for Credit Losses
     The provision for credit losses in the 2007 third quarter was $42.0 million, up $27.8 million from the year-ago quarter. Compared with the 2007 second quarter, the provision for credit losses declined $18.1 million. The 2007 second quarter included $24.8 million of provision for credit losses for the two eastern Michigan credit relationships and one northern Ohio commercial credit. In the current quarter, charge-offs of $10.0 million related to these three credit relationships were taken against these reserves. On a reported basis, 2007 third quarter net charge-offs of $47.1 million exceeded current period provision for credit losses by $5.1 million. Adjusting for the $10.0 million of charge-offs associated with these three commercial credits, the current quarter provision for credit losses exceeded net charge-offs by $4.9 million.
(See Credit Quality Discussion).
Non-Interest Income
2007 Third Quarter versus 2006 Third Quarter
     Non-interest income increased $106.8 million from the year-ago quarter. The $68.7 million of merger related income significantly impacted this increase. Table 6 details the $106.8 million reported increase in total non-interest income.
 
Table 6  Non-interest Income  3Q07 vs. 3Q06
 
     The $38.0 million, or 23%, non-merger related increase reflected:
Partially offset by:
2007 Third Quarter versus 2007 Second Quarter
     Non-interest income increased $48.5 million from the 2007 second quarter. The $68.7 million of merger related income drove this increase. Table 7 details the $48.5 million increase in reported total non-interest income.
 
Table 7  Non-interest Income  3Q07 vs. 2Q07
 
     The $20.2 million, or 9%, non-merger related decline reflected:
Partially offset by:
Non-interest Expense
2007 Third Quarter versus 2006 Third Quarter
     Non-interest expense increased $143.1 million from the year-ago quarter. The $136.6 million of merger related expenses and $32.3 million of merger costs drove the increase, as non-merger related expenses declined. Table 8 details the $143.1 million increase in reported total non-interest expense.
 
Table 8  Non-interest Expense  3Q07 vs. 3Q06
 
     The $25.8 million, or 7%, non-merger related decline reflected:
2007 Third Quarter versus 2007 Second Quarter
     Non-interest expense increased $140.9 million, or 58%, from the 2007 second quarter. The $136.6 million of merger related expenses and $24.7 million increase in merger costs drove the increase, as non-merger related expenses declined. Table 9 details the $140.9 million increase in reported total non-interest expense.
 
Table 9  Non-interest Expense  3Q07 vs. 2Q07
 
     The $20.4 million, or 5%, non-merger related decline represented the total estimated merger efficiencies achieved in the quarter and reflected:
Income Taxes
     The provision for income taxes in the 2007 third quarter was $48.5 million, resulting in an effective tax rate of 26.0%. As expected, the merger resulted in a higher effective tax rate compared with the 2007 second quarter effective tax rate of 23.2%. In the year-ago quarter, the provision for income taxes was a negative $60.8 million, resulting in an effective tax rate of negative 62.9%. The year ago quarter reflected an $84.5 million reduction of federal tax expense related to the resolution of a federal tax audit covering tax years 2002 and 2003 that resulted in the release of previously established federal income tax reserves, as well as the recognition of federal tax loss carry backs. The effective tax rate for the full year 2007 is estimated to be consistent with the 2007 nine-month effective tax rate of 25.3%.
Credit Quality
     The Sky Financial merger increased virtually all credit quality measures on an absolute basis: the level of net charge-offs, non-performing loans (NPL/NPLs), non-performing assets (NPA/NPAs), allowance for credit losses (ACL), etc. Management, therefore, believes the more meaningful way to assess overall credit quality performance for the 2007 third quarter is through an analysis of credit quality performance ratios. This approach forms the basis of most of the following discussion.
 
     Aside from merger related impacts and consistent with expectations, overall credit quality moderately deteriorated in the 2007 third quarter. The continued weakness in our Midwest markets, most notably eastern Michigan and northern Ohio, resulted in higher levels of non-merger related NPLs and consumer net charge-offs. However, overall delinquencies increased only slightly and the outlook remains for modest increases in problem assets in the 2007 fourth quarter.
     Total net charge-offs for the 2007 third quarter were $47.1 million, or an annualized 0.47% of average total loans and leases. This compared with net charge-offs of $21.2 million, or an annualized 0.32%, in the year-ago quarter, and $34.5 million, or an annualized 0.52%, in the 2007 second quarter. Performance in the 2007 third quarter was slightly above the long-term targeted range of 0.35%-0.45%.
     Total commercial net charge-offs in the 2007 third quarter were $17.3 million, or an annualized 0.31%. This was higher than an annualized 0.23% in the year-ago period, but less than the annualized 0.64% in the prior quarter. The prior quarter ratio included 38 basis points related to losses on two single family homebuilder credits in eastern Michigan. The current quarter included $10.0 million, or 18 basis points, of net charge-offs associated with the three commercial credits for which reserves had been established in the 2007 second quarter.
     Total consumer net charge-offs in the current quarter were $29.8 million, or an annualized 0.67%. This was higher than an annualized 0.40% in the year-ago period and 0.41% in the prior quarter. Automobile loan and lease net charge-offs were an annualized 0.73% in the third quarter, up from 0.40% in the year-ago period and 0.45% in the prior period. This increase reflected both the impact of the Sky Financial portfolio, as well as seasonal factors. Residential mortgage net charge-offs totaled $4.4 million, or an annualized 0.32% of related average balances. This was higher than an annualized 0.07% in the year-ago quarter and an annualized 0.16% in the prior quarter. Home equity net charge-offs in the 2007 third quarter were $10.8 million, or an annualized 0.59%, up from an annualized 0.53%, in the year-ago quarter and an annualized 0.43% in the prior quarter. The increase in residential mortgage and home equity net charge-offs reflected continued market weakness, particularly in the southeast Michigan and northeast Ohio markets.
     NPAs were $435.0 million at September 30, 2007, and represented 1.08% of related assets with most of the NPA increase being merger related. This compared with $171.2 million, or 0.65%, at the end of the year-ago period, and $261.2 million, or 0.97%, at June 30, 2007. The $173.9 million increase from the end of the prior quarter reflected:
 
     At September 30, 2007, total NPLs were $249.4 million, up $37.9 million, or 18%, from June 30, 2007. Total NPLs at September 30, 2007 expressed as a percent of period end total loans and leases, was 0.62%, down from 0.79% at June 30, 2007, but up from 0.49% a year earlier.
     The over 90-day delinquent, but still accruing, ratio was 0.29% at September 30, 2007, up from 0.24% at the end of the year-ago quarter and from 0.25% at June 30, 2007.
Allowances for Credit Losses (ACL)
     We maintain two reserves, both of which are available to absorb probable credit losses: the allowance for loan and lease losses (ALLL) and the allowance for unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit (AULC). When summed together, these reserves constitute the total ACL.
     At September 30, 2007, the ALLL was $454.8 million, up from $280.2 million a year ago and from $307.5 million at June 30, 2007. Expressed as a percent of period-end loans and leases, the ALLL ratio at September 30, 2007, was 1.14%, up from 1.06% a year ago, but down 1 basis point from 1.15% at June 30, 2007, reflecting the charge-off of $10.0 million of commercial loans where reserves had been established in the 2007 second quarter.
     The level of required loan loss reserves is determined using a highly quantitative methodology, which determines the required levels for both the transaction reserve and economic reserve components. Table 10 shows the change in the ALLL ratio and each reserve component for the 2007 third and second quarters and the 2006 third quarter.
Table 10  Components of ALLL as Percent of Total Loans and Leases
 
     The change in both the transaction reserve and the economic reserve components primarily reflected the impact of the merger.
     The ALLL as a percent of NPLs was 182% at September 30, 2007, down from 217% a year ago, but up from 145% at June 30, 2007. The ALLL as a percent of NPAs was 105% at September 30, 2007, down from 164% a year ago, and from 118% at June 30, 2007. At September 30, 2007, the AULC was $58.2 million, up from $39.3 million at the end of the year-ago quarter, and from $41.6 million at June 30, 2007, mostly merger related.
     On a combined basis, the ACL as a percent of total loans and leases at September 30, 2007, was 1.28%, up from 1.21% a year ago, but down from 1.30% at June 30, 2007. The ACL as a percent of NPLs was 206% at September 30, 2007, down from 247% a year ago, but up from 165% at June 30, 2007. The ACL as a percent of NPAs was 118% at September 30, 2007, down from 187% a year earlier and from 134% at June 30, 2007.
 
     Given the expectation of continued stress in commercial real estate markets, weak performance of the eastern Michigan and northern Ohio economies, as well as the increase in reserves recognized this quarter, the expectation is for modest increases in the ALLL ratio in the 2007 fourth quarter.
Capital
     At September 30, 2007, the tangible equity to assets ratio was 5.42%, down from 7.13% a year ago, and from 6.82% at June 30, 2007. The decline from June 30, 2007 primarily reflected the impact of the Sky Financial merger, as well as a 17 basis point negative impact attributable to a temporary $1.5 billion increase in assets. At September 30, 2007, the tangible equity to risk-weighted assets ratio was 6.11%, down from 7.97% at the end of the year-ago quarter, and from 7.60% at June 30, 2007. These decreases were also primarily merger related.
     There were no share repurchases during the quarter. Under the current authorization announced April 20, 2006, there are currently 3.9 million shares remaining available.
2007 FOURTH QUARTER OUTLOOK
     When earnings guidance is given, it is our practice to do so on a GAAP basis, unless otherwise noted. Such guidance includes the expected results of all significant forecasted activities. However, guidance typically excludes selected items where the timing and financial impact is uncertain until the impact can be reasonably forecasted, as well as potential unusual or one-time items.
     Our expectation is that the Midwest economic environment will continue to be negatively impacted by weakness in residential real estate markets and the automotive manufacturing and supplier sector. How much these factors will affect banking activities and overall credit quality trends is unknown. However, it is our expectation that any impact will be greatest in our eastern Michigan and northern Ohio markets. Given the market's outlook for interest rates, we will continue to target our interest rate risk position at our customary relatively neutral position.
     The assumptions listed below reflect 2007 fourth quarter expectations compared with actual 2007 third quarter performance.
 
     Within this type of environment, earnings for the 2007 fourth quarter are targeted at $0.45-$0.47 per common share, excluding merger costs.
Conference Call / Webcast Information
     Huntington's senior management will host an earnings conference call today at 1:00 p.m. (Eastern Time). The call may be accessed via a live Internet webcast at huntington-ir.com or through a dial-in telephone number at 800-223-1238; conference ID 17065118. Slides will be available at huntington-ir.com just prior to 1:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) today for review during the call. A replay of the webcast will be archived in the Investor Relations section of Huntington's web site at huntington-ir.com. A telephone replay will be available approximately two hours after the completion of the call through October 31, 2007 at 800-642-1687; conference ID 17065118.
Forward-looking Statement
     This document contains certain forward-looking statements, including certain plans, expectations, goals, and projections, and including statements about the benefits of the merger between Huntington and Sky Financial, which are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those contained or implied by such statements for a variety of factors including: the expected merger efficiencies and any revenue synergies from the merger may not be fully realized within the expected timeframes; disruption from the merger may make it more difficult to maintain relationships with clients, associates, or suppliers; changes in economic conditions; movements in interest rates; competitive pressures on product pricing and services; success and timing of other business strategies; the nature, extent, and timing of governmental actions and reforms; and extended disruption of vital infrastructure. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described above can be found in Huntington's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and documents subsequently filed by Huntington with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements included in this release are based on information available at the time of the release. Huntington assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Basis of Presentation
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
     This earnings release contains GAAP financial measures and non-GAAP financial measures where management believes it to be helpful in understanding Huntington's results of operations or financial position. Where non-GAAP financial measures are used, the comparable GAAP financial measure, as well as the reconciliation to the comparable GAAP financial measure, can be found in this release, the Quarterly Financial Review supplement to this earnings release, or the 2007 third quarter earnings conference call slides, which can be found on Huntington's website at huntington-ir.com.
 
Significant Items
     Certain components of the Income Statement are naturally subject to more volatility than others. As a result, analysts/investors may view such items differently in their assessment of performance compared with their expectations and/or any implications resulting from them on their assessment of future performance trends. It is a general practice of analysts/investors to try and determine their perception of what "underlying" or "core" earnings performance is in any given reporting period, as this typically forms the basis for their estimation of performance in future periods.
     Therefore, Management believes the disclosure of certain "Significant Items" in current and prior period results aids analysts/investors in better understanding corporate performance so that they can ascertain for themselves what, if any, items they may wish to include/exclude from their analysis of performance; i.e., within the context of determining how that performance differed from their expectations, as well as how, if at all, to adjust their estimates of future performance accordingly.
     To this end, Management has adopted a practice of listing as "Significant Items" in its external disclosure documents (e.g., earnings press releases, investor presentations, Forms 10-Q and 10-K) individual and/or particularly volatile items that impact the current period results by $0.01 per share or more. Such "Significant Items" generally fall within one of two categories: timing differences and other items.
(The one exception is the provision for credit losses discussed below).
Timing Differences
     Part of the company's regular business activities are by their nature volatile; e.g. capital markets income, gains and losses on the sale of loans, etc. While such items may generally be expected to occur within a full-year reporting period, they may vary significantly from period to period. Such items are also typically a component of an Income Statement line item and not, therefore, readily discernable. By specifically disclosing such items, analysts/investors can better assess how, if at all, to adjust their estimates of future performance.
Other Items
     From time to time, an event or transaction might significantly impact revenues, expenses, or taxes in a particular reporting period that are judged to be one-time, short-term in nature, and/or materially outside typically expected performance. Examples would be (1) merger costs as they typically impact expenses for only a few quarters during the period of transition; e.g., restructuring charges, asset valuation adjustments, etc.; (2) changes in an accounting principle; (3) one-time tax assessments/refunds; (4) a large gain/loss on the sale of an asset; (5) outsized commercial loan net charge-offs related to fraud; etc. By disclosing such items, analysts/investors can better assess how, if at all, to adjust their estimates of future performance.
Provision for Credit Losses
     While the provision for credit losses may vary significantly between periods, Management typically excludes it from the list of "Significant Items", unless in Management's view, there is a significant specific credit(s), which is causing distortion in the period.
     Provision expense is always an assumption in analyst/investor expectations of earnings and there is apparent agreement among them that provision expense is included in their definition of "underlying" or "core" earnings unlike "timing differences" or "other items". In addition, provision expense is an individual Income Statement line item so its value is easily known and, except in very rare situations, the amount in any reporting period always exceeds $0.01 per share. In addition, the factors influencing the level of provision expense receive detailed additional disclosure and analysis so that analysts/investors have information readily available to understand the underlying factors that result in the reported provision expense amount.
     In addition, provision expense trends usually increase/decrease in a somewhat orderly pattern in conjunction with credit quality cycle changes; i.e., as credit quality improves provision expense generally declines and vice versa. While they may have differing views regarding magnitude and/or trends in provision expense, every analyst and most investors incorporate a provision expense estimate in their financial performance estimates.
Other Exclusions
     "Significant Items" for any particular period are not intended to be a complete list of items that may significantly impact future periods. A number of factors, including those described in Huntington's 2006 Annual
 
Report on Form 10-K and other factors described from time to time in Huntington's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could significantly impact future periods.
Estimating the Impact on Balance Sheet and Income Statement Results Due to Acquisitions
     The merger with Sky Financial Group Inc. (Sky Financial) was completed on July 1, 2007. At the time of acquisition, Sky Financial had assets of $16.8 billion, including $13.3 billion of loans, and core deposits of $12.0 billion. Sky Financial results were fully included in our consolidated results for the full 2007 third quarter, and will impact all quarters thereafter. As a result, performance comparisons of 2007 third quarter and 2007 nine-month performance to prior periods are affected as Sky Financial results were not included in the prior periods. Comparisons of the 2007 third quarter and 2007 nine-month performance compared prior periods are impacted as follows:
     Given the significant impact of the merger on reported 2007 results, management believes that an understanding of the impacts of the merger is necessary to understand better underlying performance trends. When comparing post-merger period results to pre-merger periods, the following terms are used when discussing financial performance:
     The following methodology has been implemented to estimate the approximate effect of the Sky Financial merger used to determine "merger related" impacts.
Balance Sheet Items
     For loans and leases, as well as core deposits, Sky Financial's balances as of June 30, 2007, adjusted for consolidating, merger, and purchase accounting adjustments, are used in the comparison. To estimate the impact on 2007 third quarter average balances, it was assumed that the June 30, 2007 balances, as adjusted, remained constant throughout the 2007 third quarter and will remain constant in all subsequent periods.
Income Statement Items
     For income statement line items, Sky Financial's actual results for the first six months of 2007, adjusted for the impact of unusual items and purchase accounting adjustments, were determined. This six-month adjusted amount was divided by two to estimate a quarterly amount. This results in an approximate quarterly impact as the methodology does not adjust for any unusual items or seasonal factors in Sky Financial's 2007 six-month results. Nor does it consider any revenue or expense synergies realized since the merger date. This same estimated amount will also be used in all subsequent quarterly reporting periods. The one exception to this methodology of holding the estimated quarterly impact constant relates to the amortization of intangibles expense where the amount is known and is therefore used.
     Table 11 below provides detail of changes to selected reported results to quantify the impact of the Sky Financial merger using this methodology:
 
Table 11  Estimated Impact of Sky Financial Merger
2007 Third Quarter versus 2006 Third Quarter
 
2007 Third Quarter versus 2007 Second Quarter
 
Annualized data
     Certain returns, yields, performance ratios, or quarterly growth rates are "annualized" in this presentation to represent an annual time period. This is done for analytical and decision-making purposes to better discern underlying performance trends when compared to full-year or year-over-year amounts. For example, loan growth rates are most often expressed in terms of an annual rate like 8%. As such, a 2% growth rate for a quarter would represent an annualized 8% growth rate.
Fully taxable equivalent interest income and net interest margin
     Income from tax-exempt earnings assets is increased by an amount equivalent to the taxes that would have been paid if this income had been taxable at statutory rates. This adjustment puts all earning assets, most notably tax-
 
exempt municipal securities and certain lease assets, on a common basis that facilitates comparison of results to results of competitors.
Earnings per share equivalent data
     Significant and/or one-time income or expense items may be expressed on a per common share basis. This is done for analytical and decision-making purposes to better discern underlying trends in total corporate earnings per share performance excluding the impact of such items. Investors may also find this information helpful in their evaluation of the company's financial performance against published earnings per share mean estimate amounts, which typically exclude the impact of significant and/or one-time items. Earnings per share equivalents are usually calculated by applying a 35% effective tax rate to a pre-tax amount to derive an after-tax amount, which is divided by the average shares outstanding during the respective reporting period. Occasionally, when the item involves special tax treatment, the after-tax amount is disclosed separately, with this then being the amount used to calculate the earnings per share equivalent.
NM or nm
     Percent changes of 100% or more are typically shown as "nm" or "not meaningful" unless required. Such large percent changes typically reflect the impact of one-time items within the measured periods. Since the primary purpose of showing a percent change is for discerning underlying performance trends, such large percent changes are "not meaningful" for this purpose.
About Huntington
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated is a $55 billion regional bank holding company headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. Huntington has more than 141 years of serving the financial needs of its customers. Huntington's banking subsidiary, The Huntington National Bank, provides innovative retail and commercial financial products and services through over 600 regional banking offices in Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia. Huntington also offers retail and commercial financial services online at huntington.com; through its technologically advanced, 24-hour telephone bank; and through its network of over 1,400 ATMs. Selected financial service activities are also conducted in other states including: Dealer Sales offices in Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee; Private Financial and Capital Markets Group offices in Florida; and Mortgage Banking offices in Maryland and New Jersey. Sky Insurance offers retail and commercial insurance agency services, through offices in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Indiana, and West Virginia. International banking services are available through the headquarters office in Columbus, a limited purpose office located in both the Cayman Islands and Hong Kong.
 
HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED Quarterly Key Statistics
(1), (9)
(Unaudited)
 
 
HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED Year To Date Key Statistics
(1), (6)
(Unaudited)
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
Note:
The preparation of financial statement data in conformity with accounting principals generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation.
This document reflects the post-Sky merger organization structure effective July 1, 2007. Accordingly, the balances presented include the impact of the acquisition from that date.
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Consolidated Balance Sheets
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Loans and Leases Composition
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Deposit Composition
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Consolidated Quarterly Average Balance Sheets
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Consolidated Quarterly Net Interest Margin Analysis
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Quarterly Average Loans and Leases and Deposit     Composition By Business Segment
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Selected Quarterly Income Statement Data
(1)
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Quarterly Mortgage Banking Income
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Quarterly Credit Reserves Analysis
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Quarterly Net Charge-Off Analysis
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Quarterly Non-Performing Loans (NPLs), Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) and Past Due Loans and Leases
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Quarterly Stock Summary, Capital, and Other Data
(Unaudited)
Quarterly common stock summary
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Consolidated Year To Date Average Balance Sheets
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Consolidated Year To Date Net Interest Margin Analysis
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Selected Year To Date Income Statement Data
(1)
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Year To Date Mortgage Banking Income
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Year To Date Credit Reserves Analysis
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Year To Date Net Charge-Off Analysis
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Year To Date Non-Performing Loans (NPLs), Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) and Past Due Loans and Leases
(Unaudited)


