FILE:HBAN/HBAN-8K-20080110105406.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 10, 2008, Huntington Bancshares Incorporated ("Huntington") issued a news release announcing that it expects to report 2007 fourth quarter net loss of $239 million or $0.65 per common share. Huntington also confirmed it will report its fourth quarter earnings as previously scheduled on Thursday, January 17, 2008, prior to the market opening. A news release and supporting financial data will be available at that time on Huntingtons website at http://www.huntington-ir.com. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
d) Exhibits The following exhibits are filed herewith: Exhibit No. -- Description 99.1 -- News Release of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, dated January 10, 2008.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

NEWSRELEASE
January 10, 2008
1B
Contacts:
COLUMBUS, Ohio  Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (NASDAQ: HBAN) today announced that it expects to report a 2007 fourth quarter net loss of $0.65 per common share. These results reflect:
Commenting on the quarter, Thomas E. Hoaglin, chairman, president, and chief executive officer said, "These results were well below our expectations. The item impacting results most negatively was the previously announced restructuring of the Franklin relationship. Though a negative this quarter, its successful restructuring, we believe, addresses fully the current and anticipated financial performance issues associated with this relationship. The quarter was also negatively impacted by continued weakness in commercial real estate markets."
Huntington expects to report total non-performing assets of about $1.7 billion, with $1.2 billion representing the restructured Franklin loans. With the Franklin restructuring completed, the Franklin loans are accruing interest and are expected to continue to perform in accordance with the terms of the restructuring. Total non-accrual loans are expected to be $320 million, up from $249 million at the end of the third quarter with most of the increase in middle market commercial real estate loans. Period end non-accrual loans will represent about 0.80% of total loans and leases, up from 0.62% at September 30, 2007. Total net charge-offs will approximate $378 million, including $308 million related to the Franklin restructuring, up from $47 million in the third quarter.
The period end allowance for loan and lease losses (ALLL) will represent about 1.44% of total loans and leases, up from 1.14% at the end of the third quarter, and will approximate 181% of non-accrual loans, compared with 182% at the end of the prior period. The allowance for credit losses (ACL) will represent about 1.61% for total loans and leases, up from 1.28% at September 30, 2007, and will approximate 202% of non-accrual loans compared with 206% at the end of the prior quarter.
"Financial market volatility and negative performance contributed to our market-related losses," Hoaglin continued. "We cannot predict when these markets will stabilize. But the equity investment and securities portfolios that have been the most problematic for us have now been mostly written off. Also, any future merger costs are expected to be minimal. As a result, we believe that the level of unusual items in our quarterly results will diminish."
Huntington expects its period end tangible common equity ratio will be 5.1%, down from 5.7% at September 30, 2007, reflecting the negative impact of the current quarter loss. Though period end Tier 1 and Total risk-based capital ratios will also be negatively impacted by the current quarter loss, they will remain well above the highest regulatory "well capitalized" category levels of 6.0% and 10.0%, respectively. Huntington anticipates positive excess capital generation in 2008.
"While the quarter's results are very disappointing, the underlying health of the franchise is evident in our ability to generate good commercial loan growth, maintain our deposit base in a very competitive pricing environment, generate strong growth in key fee income categories, and control underlying expenses," Hoaglin concluded.
Huntington confirmed it will report its fourth quarter earnings as previously scheduled on Thursday, January 17, 2008, prior to the market opening. A news release and supporting financial data will be available at that time on Huntington's website at .
www.huntington-ir.com
Conference Call / Webcast Information
As previously announced, Huntington's senior management will host an earnings conference call on January 17, 2008, at 1:00 p.m. (Eastern Time). The call may be accessed via a live Internet webcast at or through a dial-in telephone number at ; conference ID . Slides will be available at just prior to 1:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) on January 17, 2008 for review during the call. A replay of the webcast will be archived in the Investor Relations section of Huntington's web site . A telephone replay will be available two hours after the completion of the call through January 31, 2008 at 800-642-1687; conference ID 30145719.
www.huntington-ir.com
800-223-1238
30145719
www.huntington-ir.com
www.huntington.com
About Huntington
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated is a $55 billion regional bank holding company headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. Huntington has more than 142 years of serving the financial needs of its customers. Huntington's banking subsidiary, The Huntington National Bank, provides innovative retail and commercial financial products and services through over 600 regional banking offices in Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia. Huntington also offers retail and commercial financial services online at huntington.com; through its technologically advanced, 24-hour telephone bank; and through its network of almost 1,400 ATMs. Selected financial service activities are also conducted in other states including: Dealer Sales offices in Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee; Private Financial and Capital Markets Group offices in Florida; and Mortgage Banking offices in Maryland and New Jersey. Sky Insurance offers retail and commercial insurance agency services in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Indiana, and West Virginia. International banking services are made available through the headquarters office in Columbus, a limited purpose office located in the Cayman Islands, and another located in Hong Kong.
Forward-looking Statement
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements, including certain plans, expectations, goals, projections, and statements, which are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those contained or implied by such statements for a variety of factors including: (1) deterioration in the loan portfolio could be worse than expected due to a number of factors such as the underlying value of the collateral could prove less valuable than otherwise assumed and assumed cash flows may be worse than expected; (2) changes in economic conditions; (3) movements in interest rates; (4) competitive pressures on product pricing and services; (5) success and timing of other business strategies; (6) the nature, extent, and timing of governmental actions and reforms; and (7) extended disruption of vital infrastructure. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described above can be found in Huntington's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and documents subsequently filed by Huntington with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements included in this release are based on information available at the time of the release. Huntington assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.


