FILE:HBAN/HBAN-8K-20090611172805.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On June 10, 2009, Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (Huntington or the Company) announced Jim Nelson, the Companys chief risk officer, resigned from his position effective June 12, 2009. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
Also on June 10, 2009, Huntington announced the appointment of Kevin Blakely as senior executive vice president and chief risk officer. In this role, he will be responsible for risk oversight across the company. The appointment will become effective in early July. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibits are filed herewith: Exhibit No. - Description 99.1 - News Release of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, dated June 10, 2009.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

NEWSRELEASE
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
June 10, 2009
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
Huntington Bancshares Inc. today announced the appointment of Kevin Blakely as senior executive vice president and chief risk officer. In this role, he will be responsible for risk oversight across the company. The appointment will become effective in early July.
Blakely replaces Jim Nelson, Huntington's chief risk officer since 2004, who indicated earlier this year his desire to return to Chicago for family reasons.
"Huntington recognizes the crucial role strong risk oversight plays in our business," said Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Stephen D. Steinour. "Kevin Blakely is well known in the industry as an early pioneer of establishing enterprise-wide risk management practices and has a very good record of enhancing corporate governance and risk management processes. We are very pleased to have Kevin's expertise and leadership in this critical role. Kevin will directly report to me."
"I am delighted to join Huntington and become part of a well-run team of professionals who have the expertise and vision to position the bank for growth," said Blakely. "Huntington's recent successful equity issuance is just another example of how Huntington is laying the groundwork for the future."
Blakely most recently served as president and chief executive officer of The Risk Management Association. There he often represented the financial services industry on matters of financial risk management. Blakely also held multiple risk positions at KeyCorp beginning in 1990 where he established several measures to more effectively manage risks and improve governance practices. Bringing nearly 35 years of financial services experience, he began his career at the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) where he held a variety of management positions. Kevin's last role at the OCC was deputy comptroller for special supervision. Blakely earned a BS degree in finance from Southern Illinois University and an MBA from Case Western Reserve University.
Steinour commented, "Kevin will succeed Jim Nelson, who is returning to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago as of June 15. We appreciate Jim Nelson's leadership and guidance in managing the risk role for Huntington. We all respect Jim for his expertise and his contributions to Huntington over the past several years. We wish him and his family well."
About Huntington
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated is a $52 billion regional bank holding company headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. Huntington has more than 143 years of serving the financial needs of its customers. Through our subsidiaries, including our banking subsidiary, The Huntington National Bank, we provide full-service commercial and consumer banking services, mortgage banking services, equipment leasing, investment management, trust services, brokerage services, customized insurance service program, and other financial products and services. Our over 600 banking offices are located in Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia. Huntington also offers retail and commercial financial services online at huntington.com; through its technologically advanced, 24-hour telephone bank; and through its network of almost 1,400 ATMs. The Auto Finance and Dealer Services group offers automobile loans to consumers and commercial loans to automobile dealers within our six-state banking franchise area. Selected financial service activities are also conducted in other states including: Private Financial Group offices in Florida and Mortgage Banking offices in Maryland and New Jersey. International banking services are available through the headquarters office in Columbus and a limited purpose office located in both the Cayman Islands and Hong Kong.         .


