FILE:HBAN/HBAN-8K-20090406162634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
          March 31, 2009          
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
          (614) 480-8300          
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     On March 31, 2009, Huntington Bancshares Incorporated ("Huntington") announced the consummation of a series of transactions (collectively, the "Transaction") that restructured the relationship between Huntington's wholly owned subsidiary, The Huntington National Bank (the "Bank"), and Franklin Credit Holding Corporation ("FCHC"). Franklin Credit Management Corporation ("FCMC"), Franklin Credit Asset Corporation ("FCAC") and Tribeca Lending Corp. ("Tribeca") are all wholly owned subsidiaries of FCHC (FCMC, FCAC, Tribeca, together with the subsidiaries of FCAC and Tribeca (the "Subsidiaries") are together with FCHC, the "Franklin Entities").
     As of March 31, 2009, the Franklin Entities had contractual debt obligations (collectively, the "Loans") to the Bank and its Participants (as defined below) of approximately $1.38 billion. The Loans were secured by consumer mortgage loans (the "Consumer Mortgage Loans") and REO properties (the "Consumer REO Assets") (collectively, the "Mortgage Assets") and also by the Franklin Entities' other assets. M&I Marshall & Ilsley Bank and BOS (USA) Inc. are participants in the Loans (the "Participants").
     The Transaction consisted principally of the following:
 
     The Class C Preferred Shares of REIT are voting shares with reduced voting rights, but the overwhelming majority of voting rights remain with the Common Shares of REIT, which are controlled by Bank and its affiliates. The Class C Preferred Shares have a liquidation value of $100,000 per share and an annual cumulative dividend rate of 9% of such liquidation value.
     In connection with the amendment and restatement of the Commercial Loans (the "Restructured Loans"): (i) the Participants Trust Certificates (but not the Bank Trust Certificates) are pledged to Bank, as agent for itself and Participants, as collateral for the Restructured Loans; (ii) the Franklin REIT Shares are pledged as collateral for the Restructured Loans; and (iii) FCHC pledged 70% of the common equity in FCMC to the Bank. 70% of the total distributions on the stock of FCMC will be transferred to Huntington by FCHC, and be credited against interest and principal on the commercial Loans. As a result: (i) net collections on the Participants Contributed Assets will be distributed monthly by Trust for the benefit of Franklin LLC and actually paid directly to Bank, as agent for Participants, pursuant to the credit agreement relating to the Restructured Loans; (ii) net collections on the Bank Contributed Assets will be distributed monthly by Trust, free and clear of any security interest under the Restructured Loans, to REIT LLC and REO Sub as holders, respectively, of the Bank Consumer Loan Certificate and the Bank Consumer REO Certificate; and (iii) dividends on the Franklin REIT Shares will be paid quarterly for the benefit of Franklin LLC and actually paid directly to Bank pursuant to the credit agreement relating to the Restructured Loans.
     Also as part of the transaction, Trust entered into a servicing agreement with FCMC for FCMC to service and collect the Contributed Assets.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
(d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 31, 2009
     Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (NASDAQ: HBAN) announced today that it has restructured its relationship with Franklin Credit Management Corporation (Franklin).
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
     "This restructuring is a very positive development for Huntington's shareholders," said Stephen D. Steinour, chairman, president, and chief executive officer. "This transaction allows Huntington to take control of the mortgage loans and OREO assets that previously served as the collateral for our commercial loans to Franklin and immediately adds 29 basis points to our tangible common equity ratio. Importantly, we can accelerate the resolution and recovery of the value embedded in these assets as this relieves Franklin from the ownership of these assets. In addition, Franklin can devote more of their attention to developing their servicing business. The restructuring resulted in a one-time $160 million after-tax benefit."
     "It has been our objective to unlock the value of Franklin's known expertise in servicing troubled mortgage assets for the benefit of our shareholders," he continued. "Given the current economic environment, a number of investors are seeking to acquire troubled mortgage portfolios. But a major roadblock for them has been finding an entity like Franklin with the proven expertise and capacity to service this type of mortgage asset. This restructuring not only gives Franklin the freedom to independently pursue the
 
acquisition of such third-party servicing arrangements, but increases Huntington's ability to collect a greater share of its outstanding loans."
     Huntington noted that it acquired control of the approximately 30,000 mortgages that formerly represented the collateral to its Franklin commercial loan. This provides Huntington the flexibility to accelerate problem loan resolution to the benefit of the borrowers, as well as its shareholders. Such benefits include:
Impact to Huntington
Restructuring Specifics
 
Conference Call / Webcast Information
     Huntington's senior management will host a conference call tomorrow morning, April 1, 2009, at 8:00a.m. (Eastern Daylight Time). The call may be accessed via a live Internet webcast at www.huntington-ir.com or through a dial-in telephone number at 800-267-7495; conference ID 93294160. Slides will be available at www.huntington-ir.com about 30 minutes prior to the call at 8:00 a.m. (Eastern Daylight Time) for review during the call. A replay of the webcast will be archived in the Investor Relations section of Huntington's web site www.huntington.com. A telephone replay will be available about two hours after the completion of the call through April 11, 2009, at 800-642-1687; conference ID 93294160.
About Huntington
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated is a $54 billion regional bank holding company headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. Huntington has more than 143 years of serving the financial needs of its customers. Huntington's banking subsidiary, The Huntington National Bank, provides innovative retail and commercial financial products and services through over 600 regional banking offices in Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia. Huntington also offers retail and commercial financial services online at huntington.com; through its technologically advanced, 24-hour telephone bank; and through its network of almost 1,400 ATMs. The Auto Finance and Dealer Services group offers automobile loans to consumers and commercial loans to automobile dealers through offices located in Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia. Selected financial service activities are also conducted in other states including: Private Financial Group offices in Florida; and Mortgage Banking offices in Maryland and New Jersey. International banking services are made available through the headquarters office in Columbus, a limited purpose office located in the Cayman Islands, and another located in Hong Kong.
About Franklin
Franklin is a specialty consumer finance company headquartered in Jersey City, New Jersey, primarily engaged in the servicing and resolution of performing, reperforming, and nonperforming residential mortgage loans. Franklin's portfolio consists of loans secured by 1-4 family residential real estate that generally fall outside the underwriting standards of the Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA or Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC or Freddie Mac) and involve elevated credit risk as a result of the nature or absence of income documentation, limited credit histories, and higher levels of consumer debt, or past credit difficulties.


