FILE:HBAN/HBAN-8K-20091204162930.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated has appointed David S. Anderson as executive vice president and controller (principal accounting officer), effective November 30, 2009. Mr. Anderson, age 55, joins Huntington from Citizens Financial Group in Providence, Rhode Island, where he was corporate controller beginning in 1995. In connection with the offer of employment, Huntington awarded Mr. Anderson an option to purchase 25,000 shares of Huntingtons common stock with a per share exercise price of $3.82, which was the closing price of the common stock on Mr. Andersons first day of employment. The option vests in equal increments on each of the first three anniversaries of the date of grant, and expires on the seventh anniversary. Huntington also awarded Mr. Anderson 25,000 restricted stock units which will vest 3 years from the date of grant and be paid in shares of stock provided Mr. Anderson remains continually employed with Huntington through that date. These equity awards were gran ted under Huntingtons Amended and Restated 2007 Stock and Long-Term Incentive Plan. Thomas P. Reed, senior vice president, who served as controller from July 18, 2006, will continue as director of finance for Huntington.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On December 4, 2009, Huntington issued a press release announcing the appointment of David S. Anderson as executive vice president and controller. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

NEWSRELEASE
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Dec. 04, 2009
David S. Anderson, who has almost 30 years of banking and accounting experience, has joined Huntington Bancshares as executive vice president and controller. He is responsible for maintaining Huntington's accounting principles, practices, procedures and initiatives. Anderson reports to Huntington's chief financial officer, Don Kimble.
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
Anderson joins Huntington from Citizens Financial Group where he was corporate controller, beginning in 1995. Prior to joining Citizens, Anderson was chief financial officer for a division of Bank One. He also served as bank controller for Michigan National Corp.
"Dave adds a great deal of experience and expertise to our team," said Kimble. "He has a strong background in accounting, accounting systems, financial and reporting controls and merger and acquisition integration. Moreover, he knows our markets because he has lived and been educated in the Midwest."
"I am very excited to join the strong management team assembled at Huntington," said Anderson. "Huntington has accomplished a great deal this year, and is positioned for more growth in the coming years. I am anxious to return to the Midwest, where I have strong roots."
Anderson was a certified public accountant at Touche Ross & Co., and earned his bachelor's degree at the University of Michigan  Dearborn. He earned his master's of business administration at Wayne State University.
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated is a $53 billion regional bank holding company headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. Huntington has more than 143 years of serving the financial needs of its customers. Through our subsidiaries, including our banking subsidiary, The Huntington National Bank, we provide full-service commercial and consumer banking services, mortgage banking services, equipment leasing, investment management, trust services, brokerage services, customized insurance service program, and other financial products and services. Our over 600 banking offices are located in Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia. Huntington also offers retail and commercial financial services online at huntington.com; through its technologically advanced, 24-hour telephone bank; and through its network of almost 1,400 ATMs. The Auto Finance and Dealer Services group offers automobile loans to consumers and commercial loans to automobile dealers within our six-state banking franchise area. Selected financial service activities are also conducted in other states including: Private Financial Group offices in Florida and Mortgage Banking offices in Maryland and New Jersey. International banking services are available through the headquarters office in Columbus and a limited purpose office located in both the Cayman Islands and Hong Kong.
About Huntington


