FILE:HBAN/HBAN-8K-20100824170640.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On August 24, 2010, Huntington Bancshares Incorporated announced that Tanny Crane has been appointed a director of the company. Ms. Crane was elected by the Board of Directors on August 18, 2010 to serve a term expiring at the 2011 annual meeting of shareholders. The Board of Directors has not yet determined to which committees of the board Ms. Crane will be appointed.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On August 24, 2010, Huntington issued a press release announcing the appointment of Tanny Crane as a director. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits. (d) Exhibits The following exhibits are filed herewith: Exhibit No. -- Description 99.1 -- Huntington Bancshares Incorporated press release dated August 24, 2010.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
August 24, 2010
COLUMBUS, Ohio  Ann "Tanny" B. Crane, president and CEO of Crane Group as well as the former board chair of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, has been named to the Huntington Bancshares board of directors.
Since 2003, Crane has led a diversified portfolio company comprised of businesses primarily serving the home building and commercial markets, as well as managing investments in private equity firms and real estate and bond portfolios. Crane and her company are widely recognized for their multigenerational philanthropy to communities throughout Central Ohio.
"Tanny is an accomplished executive who has a deep knowledge of the financial services industry," said Steve Steinour, president, chairman and CEO of Huntington. "Thanks to her work with the Federal Reserve, she understands the challenges and opportunities facing our industry today. She also shares our values on community support and investment. We welcome her expertise as we continue to grow the bank and expand our investments in the communities we serve."
Crane joined Crane Plastics Company in 1987 as director of human resources, and was promoted to vice president of sales and marketing in 1993. She became the president of Crane Plastics in 1996, and was promoted to her current position in 2003. Prior to joining Crane Plastics, she was product manager for Quaker Oats Company of Chicago and national account manager at AT&T.
In 2003, Crane was appointed bank director for the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. She served as a director for five years and was then named chair of the board. She served in that capacity for two years, beginning in 2007.
"I am delighted to join Huntington, which I believe is on the right path to sustained growth," said Crane. "I look forward to being part of such a strong and active board that is committed to its markets and to its customers."
Crane is extremely active in the Columbus community. She serves as vice chair and member of the governing committee of the Columbus Foundation, is a member of the Columbus Partnership and serves as board chair of the Columbus City Schools Education Foundation. She also sits on the executive committee of the I Know I Can board and is an advisory board member of the Fisher College of Business at The Ohio State University. Chair of the Women's Leadership Council of United Way of Central Ohio, Crane is also past board chair and served as 1999 campaign chair. She is also past president of the board of Action for Children.
Crane received her master's of business administration in marketing and finance from the Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University and her bachelor's in administrative science, with a major in marketing, from The Ohio State University.
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated is a $52 billion regional bank holding company headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. Through its affiliated companies, Huntington has been providing a full range of financial services for 144 years. Huntington offers checking, loans, savings, insurance and investment services. It has more than 600 branches and also offers retail and commercial financial services online at huntington.com; through its telephone bank; and through its network of over 1,300 ATMs. Huntington's Auto Finance and Dealer Services group offers automobile loans to consumers and commercial loans to automobile dealers within our six-state banking franchise area.
About Huntington


