FILE:HBAN/HBAN-8K-20101021090500.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 21, 2010, Huntington Bancshares Incorporated ("Huntington") issued a news release announcing its earnings for the quarter ended September 30, 2010. Also on October 21, 2010, Huntington made a Quarterly Financial Review available on its web site, .
www.huntington-ir.com
Huntington's senior management will host an earnings conference call October 21, 2010, at 10:00 a.m. (Eastern Time). The call may be accessed via a live Internet webcast at or through a dial-in telephone number at 800-267-7495, conference ID 11905208. Slides will be available at just prior to the call. A replay of the web cast will be archived in the Investor Relations section of Huntington's web site at . A telephone replay will be available two hours after the completion of the call through October 29, 2010, at 800-642-1687; conference call ID 11905208.
www.huntington-ir.com
www.huntington-ir.com
www.huntington.com
The information contained or incorporated by reference in this Current Report on Form 8-K contains certain forward-looking statements, including certain plans, expectations, goals, projections, and statements, which are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those contained or implied by such statements for a variety of factors including: (1) credit quality performance could worsen due to a number of factors such as the underlying value of the collateral could prove less valuable than otherwise assumed and assumed cash flows may be worse than expected; (2) changes in economic conditions; (3) movements in interest rates; (4) competitive pressures on product pricing and services; (5) success and timing of other business strategies; (6) extended disruption of vital infrastructure; and (7) the nature, extent, and timing of governmental actions and reforms, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as future regulations which will be adopted by the relevant regulatory agencies, including the newly created Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), to implement the Act's provisions. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described above can be found in Huntington's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and documents subsequently filed by Huntington with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements contained or incorporated by reference in this Current Report on Form 8-K are based on information available at the time of the release. Huntington assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
 
Exhibit 99.2 includes certain ratios, specifically the tangible common equity ratio, and the Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio, which are non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are included in this report because the Federal Reserve indicated that as part of their Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP), a year-end 2010 Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio of 4.0% would be needed. Although Huntington is not one of the SCAP bank holding companies, the market has accepted this as a "de facto" standard for being adequately capitalized since 10 of the 19 bank holding companies included in SCAP were directed to increase their capital levels to meet this targeted threshold. Other companies may calculate these financial measures differently. Risk-weighted assets are calculated under regulatory capital rules applicable to us as discussed more fully on page 8 of our Form 10-K. The tangible common equity ratio, tangible assets, and Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio were calculated as follows:
Capital Adequacy Reconciliations
 
The information contained or incorporated by reference in Item 2.02 of this Form 8-K shall be treated as "furnished" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The exhibits referenced below shall be treated as "furnished" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Date: October 21, 2010
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE 
Todd Beekman (614) 480-3878
Todd.Beekman@huntington.com
COLUMBUS, Ohio  Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (NASDAQ: HBAN; ) reported 2010 third quarter net income of $100.9 million, or $0.10 per common share. This compared with net income of $48.8 million, or $0.03 per common share, in the 2010 second quarter and a net loss of $166.2 million, or $0.33 per common share, in the year-ago quarter.
www.huntington.com
For the first nine months of 2010, Huntington reported net income of $189.4 million, or $0.14 per common share, compared with a net loss of $2.7 billion, or $6.08 per common share, in the comparable year-ago period. The year-ago period included $2.6 billion pre-tax, or $5.52 per common share, of goodwill impairment charges.
 
"There was much to be pleased with about our 2010 third quarter financial performance," said Stephen D. Steinour, chairman and chief executive officer. "Net income was higher. Revenue grew. And we saw continued significant improvement in credit quality as nonperforming assets and net charge-offs declined and reserve coverage of nonperforming assets increased. Capital ratios also strengthened. These are all trends we expect will continue going forward. We continue to be challenged by the current economy. But while the environment is difficult, it is not as tough as it was last year. Growth in our automobile loans continued to be a bright spot, and we were able to generate modest growth in commercial and industrial loans."
Total revenue for the third quarter was $679.7 million, up 1% from the prior quarter, driven by a $10.4 million, or 3%, increase in fully-taxable equivalent net interest income. This reflected 8% annualized growth in average earnings assets, including 1% annualized growth in average total loans and leases, and a net interest margin of 3.45%, down one basis point from the prior quarter.
Nonaccrual loans (NALs) declined 18% to $1.0 billion at September 30, 2010, from $1.2 billion at the end of the prior quarter. Total criticized commercial loans at quarter end were $3.6 billion, down 11% from $4.1 billion at June 30, 2010. While the period end allowance for credit losses (ACL) as a percentage of total loans and leases was 3.67%, down from 3.90% at June 30, 2010, the ACL as a percentage of total nonaccrual loans (NALs), increased to 140%, from 120%. Net charge-offs were $184.5 million, or an annualized 1.98% of average total loans and leases, down from $279.2 million, or 3.01%, in the 2010 second quarter.
The Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio at September 30, 2010, was 7.36%, up from 7.06% at the end of June. The period end tangible common equity ratio increased to 6.20% from 6.12% at the end of the prior quarter. The regulatory Tier 1 and Total capital ratios were 12.76% and 15.02%, respectively, up from 12.51% and 14.79%, respectively, at the end of June and $2.9 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, above the "well capitalized" thresholds.
"During the third quarter, we continued to make significant investments in people, product expansion, and distribution designed to grow revenues and improve long-term profitability," Steinour continued. "In addition, and recognizing that customer attitudes toward banks and banking have changed, we introduced our Fair Play' banking philosophy. This will reposition Huntington as the most customer-friendly bank in our markets, with the objective of accelerating customer acquisition and thereby revenue growth. We voluntarily reduced certain deposit service charges, over and above that resulting from the industry's implementation of the amendment to Reg E. Combined, these investments and fee reductions create temporary earnings headwinds. Reflecting this, third quarter pre-tax, pre-provision earnings declined to $265.2 million, or 2%, from the second quarter. For the near term, we expect pre-tax, pre-provision earnings to remain around the current level. We believe that our strategic investments and market repositioning will position us, over time, to resume our growth trajectory in pre-tax, pre-provision earnings."
 
THIRD QUARTER PERFORMANCE DISCUSSION
PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW COMPARED WITH 2010 SECOND QUARTER
Significant Items Influencing Financial Performance Comparisons
From time to time, revenue, expenses, or taxes are impacted by items judged by Management to be outside of ordinary banking activities and/or by items that, while they may be associated with ordinary banking activities, are so unusually large that their outsized impact is believed by Management at that time to be infrequent or short-term in nature. Management believes the disclosure of "Significant Items" in current and prior period results aids analysts/investors in better understanding corporate performance trends. Such items impacting linked-quarter and year-over-year comparisons are noted in Table 1 below.
(See Significant Items under the Basis of Presentation for a full discussion).
 
Table 1  Significant Items Influencing Earnings Performance Comparisons
NA- Not applicable
Franklin-Related Activity
As previously announced, at the end of the 2010 second quarter, $398 million of Franklin-related loans ($333.0 million of residential mortgages and $64.7 million of home equity loans) at a value of $323.4 million were transferred into loans held for sale. As a result of the transfer, these loans were marked to lower of cost or fair value, less cost to sell. This resulted in charge-offs at the time of transfer which, when added to other charge-offs during the quarter, resulted in total 2010 second quarter Franklin-related net charge-offs of $80.0 million ($64.2 million related to residential mortgages and $15.9 million related to home equity loans, partially offset by $0.2 million of C&I net recoveries). The 2010 second quarter provision for credit losses included $80.0 million related to Franklin, with $75.5 million related to transferring the loans into loans held for sale
(see Table 1 above).
During the 2010 third quarter, the Franklin-related residential mortgages and home equity loans were sold at essentially book value. In the 2010 third quarter, there were $4.5 million of consumer net charge-offs ($1.2 million of home equity loans and $3.4 million of residential mortgages), which was offset by $4.5 million in C&I net recoveries. At September 30, 2010, the only Franklin-related assets remaining were $15.3 million of OREO, which has been written down to current fair value.
Pre-Tax, Pre-Provision Income Trends
One performance metric that Management believes is useful in analyzing performance is the level of earnings adjusted to exclude provision expense, securities gains or losses, amortization of intangibles, and certain Significant Items.
(See Pre-Tax, Pre-Provision Income in Basis of Presentation for a full discussion).
 
Table 2 shows pre-tax, pre-provision income was $265.2 million in the 2010 third quarter, down 2% from the prior quarter.
Table 2  Pre-Tax, Pre-Provision Income
(1)
As discussed in the sections that follow, the decline from the 2010 second quarter primarily reflected higher noninterest expense due to strategic growth initiatives, partially offset by higher revenue.
Net Interest Income, Net Interest Margin, and Average Balance Sheet
2010 Third Quarter versus 2010 Second Quarter
Compared with the 2010 second quarter, fully-taxable equivalent net interest income increased $10.4 million, or 3%. This reflected an annualized 8% increase in average earning assets as the fully-taxable equivalent net interest margin declined only slightly to 3.45% from 3.46%. The increase in average earning assets reflected a combination of activities including:
The net interest margin declined 1 basis point. Favorable trends in the mix and pricing of deposits were offset by a lower contribution on Franklin-related loans, a lower contribution from asset/liability management strategies implemented in the first three quarters, and one more day in the third quarter.
Table 3 details the increase in average total loans and leases.
 
Table 3  Loans and Leases  3Q10 vs. 2Q10
Average total loans and leases increased $0.1 billion, reflecting a $0.3 billion, or 2%, increase in total consumer loans, partially offset by a $0.1 billion, or 1%, decline in average total commercial loans.
Average commercial and industrial (C&I) loans increased $0.1 billion, or 1%. Underlying growth was mitigated by a combination of paydowns on term debt, as well as the sale of $43.2 million of SBA loans. The economic environment continued to cause many customers to actively reduce their leverage position. Our line-of-credit utilization percentage was 42%, consistent with that of the prior quarter. We continue to believe that we have opportunities to expand our customer base within our markets and are focused on expanding our C&I pipeline.
Average commercial real estate loans (CRE) declined $0.3 billion, or 4%, primarily as a result of our on-going strategy to reduce our exposure to the commercial real estate market. The 4% decline in the quarter was driven by continuing paydowns and charge-off activity associated with our non-core CRE portfolio. The portion of the CRE portfolio designated as core continued to perform very well as expected, with average balances little-changed from the prior quarter.
Average total consumer loans increased $0.3 billion, or 2%, led by a $0.5 billion, or 11%, increase in average automobile loans and leases. This growth reflected record production in the quarter. We have consistently maintained historical high credit quality standards on this production while achieving an appropriate return. During the quarter, we continued the expansion of our automobile lending operations eastward, complementing our Eastern Pennsylvania operations with expansion into five New England states. The recent expansions incorporate new experienced colleagues with existing dealer relationships in those markets. Average residential mortgages decreased $0.2 billion, or 5%, reflecting loan sales. Average home equity loans were essentially unchanged from the prior quarter.
Table 4 details changes within the various deposit categories.
 
Table 4  Deposits  3Q10 vs. 2Q10
Average total deposits increased $0.3 billion, or 1%, from the prior quarter reflecting:
2010 Third Quarter versus 2009 Third Quarter
Fully-taxable equivalent net interest income increased $45.6 million, or 12%, from the year-ago quarter. This reflected the favorable impact of the significant increase in the net interest margin to 3.45% from 3.20%. This also reflected the benefit of a $2.0 billion, or 4%, increase in average total earning assets due to a $2.6 billion, or 39%, increase in average total investment securities, partially offset by a $0.6 billion, or 2%, decline in average total loans and leases.
Table 5 details the $0.6 billion, or 2%, decrease in average total loans and leases.
Table 5  Loans and Leases  3Q10 vs. 3Q09
 
The decrease in average total loans and leases reflected:
The $2.6 billion, or 39%, increase in average total investment securities reflected the deployment of the cash from core deposit growth and loan runoff over this period, as well as the proceeds from 2009 capital actions .
(see Capital for a full discussion)
Table 6 details the $1.1 billion, or 3%, increase in average total deposits.
Table 6  Deposits  3Q10 vs. 3Q09
 
The increase in average total deposits from the year-ago quarter reflected:
Partially offset by:
Provision for Credit Losses
The provision for credit losses in the 2010 third quarter was $119.2 million, down $74.2 million, or 38%, from the prior quarter and down $356.0 million, or 75%, from the year-ago quarter. Reflecting the resolution of problem credits for which reserves had been previously established, the current quarter's provision for credit losses was $65.4 million less than total net charge-offs (
see Credit Quality discussion).
Noninterest Income
2010 Third Quarter versus 2010 Second Quarter
Noninterest income decreased $2.5 million, or 1%, from the 2010 second quarter.
Table 7  Noninterest Income  3Q10 vs. 2Q10
 
The decrease in total noninterest income reflected:
Partially offset by:
2010 Third Quarter versus 2009 Third Quarter
Noninterest income increased $11.1 million, or 4%, from the year-ago quarter.
Table 8  Noninterest Income  3Q10 vs. 3Q09
 
The increase in total noninterest income reflected:
Partially offset by:
Noninterest Expense
2010 Third Quarter versus 2010 Second Quarter
Noninterest expense increased $13.5 million, or 3%, from the 2010 second quarter.
Table 9  Noninterest Expense  3Q10 vs. 2Q10
 
The increase in noninterest expense reflected:
Partially offset by:
2010 Second Quarter versus 2009 Second Quarter
Noninterest expense increased $26.2 million, or 7%, from the year-ago quarter.
 
Table 10  Noninterest Expense  3Q10 vs. 3Q09
The increase reflected:
Partially offset by:
Income Taxes
The provision for income taxes in the 2010 third quarter was $29.7 million. This compared with a tax expense of $13.3 million in the 2010 second quarter. At September 30, 2010, we had a deferred tax asset of $389.5 million. Based on our level of forecasted future taxable income, there was no impairment of the deferred tax asset at September 30, 2010. The total disallowed deferred tax asset for regulatory capital purposes decreased to $112.9 million at September 30, 2010, from $191.1 million at June 30, 2010.
 
Credit Quality Performance Discussion
Credit quality performance in the 2010 third quarter continued to show improvement. Total net charge-offs were $184.5 million or an annualized 1.98% of average total loans and leases. This was down $94.7 million from the second quarter, which included $80.0 million of Franklin-related net charge-offs . Other key credit quality metrics also showed improvement, including a 30% decline in nonperforming assets (NPAs). We also saw a decline in the level of criticized commercial loans reflecting significant upgrade and payment activity.
(see Franklin-Related Activity)
The current quarter saw an overall stabilization in delinquency levels. Although our commercial delinquency levels were higher, reflecting a higher delinquency rate in our workout portfolio. In contrast, the delinquency rate on our other than workout portfolio was the lowest in recent history. Our consumer delinquency levels continued to show improvement in the 30-day category, while there was a slight increase in the 90-day category, consistent with our expectations, particularly entering a seasonally higher delinquency time period. We continue to believe that there is a significant opportunity for further improvement in the residential and home equity portfolios. Automobile loan delinquency rates continued to decline. Given the significant increase in new automobile origination volume, we use a lagged delinquency measure to ensure that the underlying portfolio performance is consistent with our expectations. Based on the lagged analysis, and the origination quality, we remain very comfortable with the on-going performance of our automobile loan portfolio.
The economic environment continues to be challenging. Yet, reflecting the benefit of our focused credit actions of last year, this year we are experiencing declines in total NPAs and loans on our watch list. This quarter's net charge-offs were related to reserves established in prior periods. Our allowance for credit losses (ACL) declined $65.8 million to $1,376.4 million, or 3.67% of period-end total loans and leases, from $1,441.8 million, or 3.90%, at June 30, 2010. Importantly, our ACL as a percent of period-end NALs increased to 140% from 120%, along with improved coverage ratios associated with NPAs and criticized assets. These improved coverage ratios indicate a strengthening of our reserves relative to troubled assets from the end of the prior quarter.
 
Net Charge-Offs (NCOs)
Table 11  Net Charge-offs
Total net charge-offs for the 2010 third quarter were $184.5 million, or an annualized 1.98% of average total loans and leases. This was down $94.7 million from $279.2 million, or an annualized 3.01%, in the 2010 second quarter. .
(Note: Total net charge-offs for the 2010 third quarter were not impacted by Franklin-related net charge-offs, whereas the 2010 second quarter included $80.0 million of Franklin-related charge-offs)
Total C&I net charge-offs for the 2010 third quarter were $62.2 million, or an annualized 2.01%, up 7% from $58.1 million, or an annualized 1.90% of related loans, in the 2010 second quarter. . The increase from the prior quarter was driven by two relationships with charge-offs totaling $34.9 million. We do not believe this the beginning of an upward trend, and expect to see lower losses in future periods.
(Note: Franklin-related C&I net recoveries in the 2010 third quarter and 2010 second quarter were $4.5 million and $0.2 million, respectively)
 
Current quarter CRE net charge-offs were $63.7 million, down 22% from $81.7 million in the prior quarter. Annualized net charge-offs in the current quarter were 3.60%, down from 4.44% in the prior quarter. The decline was consistent with the improving asset quality metrics. The level of new NALs and criticized loans were both at the lowest level since 2008, and early stage delinquency improved substantially from the prior quarter. These trends continue to give us confidence in our outlook for improved results going forward. The third quarter charge-offs continued to be centered in retail projects and single family homebuilders although at much lower levels. The retail property portfolio remains the most susceptible to a continued decline in market conditions, but we believe that the combination of prior charge-offs and existing reserve balances positions us well to make effective credit decisions in the future. As we have previously stated, the credit issues in the single family homebuilder portfolio have been substantially addressed. We continued our ongoing portfolio management efforts during the quarter, including obtaining updated appraisals on properties and assessing each project's status within the context of current market environment expectations.
Total consumer net charge-offs in the current quarter were $58.6 million, or an annualized 1.32%, down from $139.4 million in the second quarter.
(Note: Franklin-related consumer net charge-offs in the 2010 third and second quarters were $4.5 million and $80.2 million, respectively).
Automobile loan and lease net charge-offs were $5.6 million, up slightly from $5.4 million in the second quarter. In contrast, automobile loan and lease net charge-offs as a percent of related outstandings in the 2010 third quarter decreased to 0.43% of average related loans and leases from 0.47% in the prior quarter, reflecting the growth in loans and leases outstanding. We continued our strategy of originating high quality automobile loans. During the third quarter, we originated $1,010 million of loans with an average FICO score of 767 and a continued emphasis on lower loan-to-value ratios. This level of new production positively impacted the net charge-off ratio and the quality of this production provides us with a great deal of comfort regarding future performance.
Home equity net charge-offs were $27.8 million, or an annualized 1.47% of related average balances, down $16.6 million from $44.5 million, or an annualized 2.36%, in the 2010 second quarterWe continue to manage the default rate through focused delinquency monitoring as virtually all defaults for home equity loans in a second lien position incur substantial losses given the lack of equity. Our strategies focus on loss mitigation activity and short sales, as we continue to believe that our more proactive loss mitigation strategies are in the best interest of both the company and our customers. While there has been a clear increase in losses given the market conditions, our performance has remained within our expectations.
. (Note: Franklin-related home equity net charge-offs in the 2010 third and second quarters were $1.2 million and $15.9 million, respectively).
Residential mortgage net charge-offs in the current quarter were $19.0 million, or an annualized 1.73% of related loans, down $63.9 million from $82.8 million, or an annualized 7.19%, in the prior quarter. . This quarter reflected consistent performance with the prior quarter on a non-Franklin related basis reflecting the continuing impact of the adverse economic environment as severity rates remained high. We did see some positive trends in the delinquency mix, and the percent of the portfolio falling into the low score ranges on our updated score process continued to decline. We continue to be very aware of the impact of the government sponsored entities (GSEs) Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, from both a repurchase risk standpoint and the potential for a substantial increase in properties on the market in the coming months. We believe that we have mitigated the potential for repurchase risk in the portfolio. From a market conditions perspective, we are appropriately considering the impact of a large increase in the number of properties for sale over the coming months by adjusting our remarketing and sales strategies.
(Note: Franklin-related residential mortgage net charge-offs in the 2010 third and second quarters were $3.4 million and $64.2 million, respectively)
 
Nonaccrual Loans (NALs) and Nonperforming Assets (NPAs)
Table 12  Nonaccrual Loans and Nonperforming Assets
Total nonaccrual loans and leases (NALs) were $981.8 million at September 30, 2010, and represented 2.62% of total loans and leases. This was down $219.5 million, or 18%, from $1,201.3 million, or 3.25% of total loans and leases, at June 30, 2010.
CRE NALs decreased $184.3 million, or 28%, from June 30, 2010, and were down 58% from its peak in the 2009 third quarter. This reflected both charge-off activity and problem credit resolutions including borrower payments and pay-offs. This decline was substantial and was a direct result of our commitment to the on-going proactive management of these credits by our Special Assets Department. Also key to this improvement was the significantly lower level of inflows. The level of inflows, or migration, is an important indicator of the future trend for the portfolio.
C&I NALs decreased $31.2 million, or 7%, from the end of prior quarter. This reflected both charge-off activity and problem credit resolutions, including pay-offs, and was associated with loans throughout our footprint, with no specific geographic concentration. From an industry perspective, improvement in the manufacturing-related segment accounted for a significant portion of the decrease.
Nonperforming assets (NPAs), which include NALs, were $1,104.9 million at September 30, 2010, and represented 2.94% of related assets. This was down $477.8 million, or 30%, from $1,582.7 million, or 4.24%, of related assets at the end of the prior quarter.
 
Table 13  90 Days Past Due and Accruing Restructured Loans
Total accruing loans and leases over 90 days past due, excluding loans guaranteed by the U.S. Government, were $95.4 million at September 30, 2010, up $12.0 million, or 14%, from the end of the prior quarter, but down $32.4 million, or 25%, from the end of the year-ago period. On this same basis, the total accruing loans and leases over 90-day delinquent but still accruing ratio was 0.25% at September 30, 2010, up slightly from 0.23% at the end of the 2010 second quarter, and down 9 basis points from a year earlier. For total consumer loans, and again on this same basis, the over 90-day delinquency ratio was 0.53% at September 30, 2010, up from 0.48% at the end of the prior quarter, but down from 0.78% a year ago.
90-day loans past due and accruing interest saw a very slight increase in the quarter. This primarily reflected a seasonal increase in residential mortgage delinquencies as automobile and home equity 90-day delinquencies held fairly steady. Although some seasonal upticks are anticipated, we continue to manage our delinquency levels very closely and expect the overall positive trend to continue.
Allowances for Credit Losses (ACL)
We maintain two reserves, both of which are available to absorb inherent credit losses: the allowance for loan and lease losses (ALLL) and the allowance for unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit (AULC). When summed together, these reserves constitute the total ACL.
 
Table 14  Allowances for Credit Losses (ACL)
At September 30, 2010, the ALLL was $1,336.4 million, down $65.8 million, or 5%, from $1,402.2 million at the end of the prior quarter. Expressed as a percent of period-end loans and leases, the ALLL ratio at September 30, 2010, was 3.56%, down from 3.79% at June 30, 2010. The ALLL as a percent of NALs was 136% at September 30, 2010, up from 117% at June 30, 2010.
At September 30, 2010, the AULC was $40.1 million, up slightly from $39.7 million at the end of the prior quarter.
On a combined basis, the ACL as a percent of total loans and leases at September 30, 2010, was 3.67%, down from 3.90% at June 30, 2010. This reduction reflected a decline in the commercial portfolio ALLL as a result of charge-offs on loans with specific reserves, and an overall reduction in the level of problem credits. The ACL as a percent of NALs was 140% at September 30, 2010, up from 120% at June 30, 2010.
Capital
Table 15  Capital Ratios
The tangible common equity to asset ratio at September 30, 2010, was 6.20%, up from 6.12% at the end of the prior quarter. Our Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio at quarter end was 7.36%, up from 7.06% at the end of the prior quarter.
 
At September 30, 2010, our regulatory Tier 1 and Total risk-based capital ratios were 12.76% and 15.02%, respectively, up from 12.51% and 14.79%, respectively, at June 30, 2010. The increase in our Tier 1 and Total capital ratios from June 30, 2010, reflected a combination of factors including capital accretion due to the current quarter's earnings and 18 basis points related to the decrease in the disallowed deferred tax assets. The total disallowed deferred tax asset for regulatory capital purposes decreased to $112.9 million at September 30, 2010, from $191.1 million at June 30, 2010. On an absolute basis, our Tier 1 and Total risk-based capital ratios at September 30, 2010, exceeded the regulatory "well capitalized" thresholds by $2.9 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively. The "well capitalized" level is the highest regulatory capital designation.
NEAR-TERM EXPECTATIONS
Commenting on near-term expectations, Steinour noted, "Economic growth and borrower and consumer confidence remain major factors. Our current expectation is that the economy will remain relatively stable for the rest of the year. Further, we face revenue headwinds due to implementing the amendment to Reg E and our voluntary actions to reduce certain fees as part of implementing our Fair Play' banking philosophy, as well as higher than trend line expenses as we continue to make investments to grow the businesses."
Reflecting these factors, pre-tax, pre-provision income levels are expected to be in line with recent reported performance. The net interest margin is expected to be flat to down slightly, reflecting the impact of the flatter, low yield curve. Our net interest margin will also be supported by disciplined loan and deposit pricing. We anticipate continued modest growth in C&I loans, as well as continued declines in commercial real estate loans. The automobile loan portfolio is expected to continue its strong growth, though home equity and residential mortgages are likely to remain relatively flat. Core deposits are expected to show continued growth, although at slower rates due to the lack of reinvestment options at desirable spreads available for any funds generated in excess of loan growth. Fee income will continue to be negatively impacted by lower service charges on deposit accounts, as well as lower mortgage banking revenues. In contrast, other fee categories are expected to grow at a faster rate reflecting the impact of our cross-sale initiatives throughout the company. Expense levels should be in line with current quarter performance. Positive credit quality trends are expected to continue, including declines in net charge-offs, nonperforming assets, and provision for credit losses.
"We continue to target net income growth. Near-term, this is expected to primarily reflect the positive impacts of lower provision expense and growth in net interest income," Steinour concluded.
Conference Call / Webcast Information
Huntington's senior management will host an earnings conference call on Thursday, October 21, 2010, at 10:00 a.m. (Eastern Time). The call may be accessed via a live Internet webcast at www.huntington-ir.com or through a dial-in telephone number at (800) 267-7495; conference ID11905208. Slides will be available at www.huntington-ir.com about an hour prior to the call. A replay of the webcast will be archived in the Investor Relations section of Huntington's web site www.huntington.com. A telephone replay will be available two hours after the completion of the call through October 29, 2010 at (800) 642-1687; conference ID 11905208.
 
Forward-looking Statement
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements, including certain plans, expectations, goals, projections, and statements, which are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those contained or implied by such statements for a variety of factors including: (1) credit quality performance could worsen due to a number of factors such as the underlying value of the collateral could prove less valuable than otherwise assumed and assumed cash flows may be worse than expected; (2) changes in economic conditions; (3) movements in interest rates; (4) competitive pressures on product pricing and services; (5) success and timing of other business strategies; (6) extended disruption of vital infrastructure; and (7) the nature, extent, and timing of governmental actions and reforms, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as future regulations which will be adopted by the relevant regulatory agencies, including the newly created Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), to implement the Act's provisions. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described above can be found in Huntington's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and documents subsequently filed by Huntington with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements included in this release are based on information available at the time of the release. Huntington assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Basis of Presentation
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This earnings press release contains GAAP financial measures and non-GAAP financial measures where management believes it to be helpful in understanding Huntington's results of operations or financial position. Where non-GAAP financial measures are used, the comparable GAAP financial measure, as well as the reconciliation to the comparable GAAP financial measure, can be found in this earnings release, the Quarterly Financial Review supplement to this release, the 2010 third quarter earnings conference call slides, or the Form 8-K related to this release, which can be found on Huntington's website at huntington-ir.com.
Pre-Tax, Pre-Provision Income
One non-GAAP performance metric that Management believes is useful in analyzing underlying performance trends is pre-tax, pre-provision income. This is the level of earnings adjusted to exclude the impact of:
Significant Items
From time to time, revenue, expenses, or taxes are impacted by items judged by Management to be outside of ordinary banking activities and/or by items that, while they may be associated with ordinary banking activities, are so unusually large that their outsized impact is believed by Management at that time to be infrequent or short-term in nature. We refer to such items as "Significant Items". Most often, these Significant Items result from factors originating outside the company  e.g., regulatory actions/assessments, windfall gains, changes in accounting principles, one-time tax assessments/refunds, etc. In other cases they may result from Management decisions associated with significant corporate actions out of the ordinary course of business  e.g., merger/restructuring charges, recapitalization actions, goodwill impairment, etc.
 
Even though certain revenue and expense items are naturally subject to more volatility than others due to changes in market and economic environment conditions, as a general rule volatility alone does not define a Significant Item. For example, changes in the provision for credit losses, gains/losses from investment activities, asset valuation writedowns, etc., reflect ordinary banking activities and are, therefore, typically excluded from consideration as a Significant Item.
Management believes the disclosure of "Significant Items" in current and prior period results aids analysts/investors in better understanding corporate performance and trends so that they can ascertain which of such items, if any, they may wish to include/exclude from their analysis of the company's performance; i.e., within the context of determining how that performance differed from their expectations, as well as how, if at all, to adjust their estimates of future performance accordingly. To this end, Management has adopted a practice of listing "Significant Items" in its external disclosure documents (e.g., earnings press releases, investor presentations, Forms 10-Q and 10-K).
"Significant Items" for any particular period are not intended to be a complete list of items that may materially impact current or future period performance. A number of items could materially impact these periods, including those described in Huntington's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K and other factors described from time to time in Huntington's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Annualized data
Certain returns, yields, performance ratios, or quarterly growth rates are presented on an "annualized" basis. This is done for analytical and decision-making purposes to better discern underlying performance trends when compared to full year or year-over-year amounts. For example, loan and deposit growth rates, as well as net charge-off percentages, are most often expressed in terms of an annual rate like 8%. As such, a 2% growth rate for a quarter would represent an annualized 8% growth rate.
Fully-taxable equivalent interest income and net interest margin
Income from tax-exempt earning assets is increased by an amount equivalent to the taxes that would have been paid if this income had been taxable at statutory rates. This adjustment puts all earning assets, most notably tax-exempt municipal securities and certain lease assets, on a common basis that facilitates comparison of results to results of competitors.
Earnings per share equivalent data
Significant income or expense items may be expressed on a per common share basis. This is done for analytical and decision-making purposes to better discern underlying trends in total corporate earnings per share performance excluding the impact of such items. Investors may also find this information helpful in their evaluation of the company's financial performance against published earnings per share mean estimate amounts, which typically exclude the impact of Significant Items. Earnings per share equivalents are usually calculated by applying a 35% effective tax rate to a pre-tax amount to derive an after-tax amount, which is divided by the average shares outstanding during the respective reporting period. Occasionally, when the item involves special tax treatment, the after-tax amount is disclosed separately, with this then being the amount used to calculate the earnings per share equivalent.
NM or nm
Percent changes of 100% or more are typically shown as "nm" or "not meaningful" unless required. Such large percent changes typically reflect the impact of unusual or particularly volatile items within the measured periods. Since the primary purpose of showing a percent change is to discern underlying performance trends, such large percent changes are typically "not meaningful" for such trend analysis purposes.
About Huntington
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated is a $53 billion regional bank holding company headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. Through its affiliated companies, Huntington has been providing a full range of financial services for 144 years. Huntington offers checking, loans, savings, insurance and investment services. It has more than 600 branches and also offers retail and commercial financial services online at huntington.com; through its telephone bank; and through its network of over 1,350 ATMs. Huntington's Auto Finance and Dealer Services group offers automobile loans to consumers and commercial loans to automobile dealers within our six-state banking franchise area, as well as selected New England states.
 
HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED Quarterly Key Statistics
(1)
(Unaudited)
N.M., not a meaningful value.
See Notes to the Quarterly Key Statistics and Year-to-Date Key Statistics.
 
HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED Year to Date Key Statistics
(1)
(Unaudited)
N.M., not a meaningful value.
See Notes to the Quarterly Key Statistics and Year-to-Date Key Statistics.
Notes to the Quarterly Key Statistics and Year-to-Date Key Statistics

Exhibit 99.2
Notes:
The preparation of financial statement data in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation.
Percent changes of 100% or more are typically shown as "N.M." or "Not Meaningful". Such large percent changes typically reflect the impact of unusual or particularly volatile items within the measured periods. Since the primary purpose of showing a percent change is to discern underlying performance trends, such large percent changes are typically "not meaningful" for such trend analysis purposes.
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
Consolidated Balance Sheets
N.M. not a meaningful value.
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
Loans and Leases Composition
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
Deposits Composition
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Consolidated Quarterly Average Balance Sheets
(Unaudited)
N.M., not a meaningful value.
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Consolidated Quarterly Net Interest Margin Analysis
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Selected Quarterly Income Statement Data (1)
(Unaudited)
 
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Quarterly Mortgage Banking Income
(Unaudited)
N.M., not a meaningful value.
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Quarterly Credit Reserves Analysis
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Quarterly Net Charge-Off Analysis
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Quarterly Nonaccrual Loans and Leases (NALs) and Nonperforming Assets (NPAs)
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Quarterly Accruing Past Due Loans and Leases and Accruing Troubled Debt Restructured Loans
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Quarterly Common Stock Summary, Capital, and Other Data
(Unaudited)
Quarterly common stock summary
Capital data
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Consolidated Year to Date Average Balance Sheets
(Unaudited)
N.M., not a meaningful value.
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Consolidated Year to Date Net Interest Margin Analysis
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Selected Year to Date Income Statement Data (1)
(Unaudited)
N.M., not a meaningful value.
 
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Year to Date Mortgage Banking Income
(Unaudited)
N.M., not a meaningful value.
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Year to Date Credit Reserves Analysis
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Year to Date Net Charge-Off Analysis
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Year to Date Nonaccrual Loans and Leases (NALs) and Nonperforming Assets (NPAs)
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Year to Date Accruing Past Due Loans and Leases and Accruing Troubled Debt Restructured Loans
(Unaudited)


