FILE:HBAN/HBAN-8K-20100111115700.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated announced on January 11, 2010 that Richard W. Neu was elected by the Board of Directors on January 7, 2010 to serve as a director. Mr. Neu will serve on both the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee of the board.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On January 11, 2010, Huntington issued a press release announcing the appointment of Richard W. Neu as a director. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
d) Exhibits The following exhibits are filed herewith: Exhibit No. -- Description 99.1 -- Huntington Bancshares Incorporated press release dated January 11, 2010.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

NEWSRELEASE
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Jan. 11, 2009
Cleveland, OHIO  Richard "Rick" W. Neu, former chief financial officer, treasurer and director of Charter One Financial and First Federal of Michigan, has been appointed to Huntington's Board of Directors. It was with the help of Neu's leadership that Charter One grew to be a company with $43 billion in assets. Neu is also chairman of the board of MCG Capital Corp. and a board member of the Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group.
"Rick possesses a substantial combination of financial acumen and knowledge of our markets," said Steve Steinour, president, chairman and chief executive officer of the bank. "He has led banking institutions in Detroit and Cleveland, two markets that are very important to us. He understands the needs of our customers, the investments we are making to grow the bank and our longstanding commitment to our communities."
Neu was raised in Michigan. He began his career as an auditor for Peat Marwick in Detroit. In 1985, he joined First Federal of Michigan, also in Detroit, as the chief financial officer. In 1995, Charter One and First Federal merged and Neu became the chief financial officer and treasurer of Charter One in Cleveland.
"I am delighted to join Huntington, which has laid a strong foundation for growth," said Neu. "I look forward to working with the Huntington team, which has the expertise, strategic vision and talent to continue to grow the bank."
Neu earned his bachelor's of business administration at Eastern Michigan University in Ypsilanti. In addition to his other board memberships, he is on the board of trustees of Western Reserve Academy in Hudson, Ohio.
He is the second board member, with strong ties to Cleveland, who has joined the Huntington board in the past six months. William R. Robertson, a 45-year resident of Cleveland, and a former president, director and deputy chairman of National City Corp. joined the board in September. It was with the help of Robertson's leadership that National City became one of the country's premier banks during the 1970s, 1980s and into the mid-1990s. Robertson most recently retired as managing partner of Cleveland's Kirtland Capital Partners.
About Huntington
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated is a $53 billion regional bank holding company headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. Through its affiliated companies, Huntington has been providing a full range of financial services including checking, loans, savings, insurance and investment services to customers for 143 years. Huntington also offers retail and commercial financial services online at huntington.com; through its technologically advanced, telephone bank; and through its network of nearly 1,400 ATMs.


