FILE:HBAN/HBAN-8K-20110427160230.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On April 21, 2011, at the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (Huntington), Huntington's shareholders approved the Management Incentive Plan for Covered Officers, an annual cash incentive compensation plan, as amended and restated effective for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2011 subject to approval by the shareholders (MIP). Shareholder approval was obtained in order to qualify certain awards as deductible for federal income tax purposes as "performance-based compensation" under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m). Participants in the MIP are the chief executive officer and those other officers whose compensation is anticipated by the Compensation Committee of Huntington's board of directors as potentially exceeding the limit under Code Section 162(m). Awards under the MIP will be based solely upon the achievement of one or more objective performance goals based on qualifying performance criteria as set forth in the MIP and selected by the Compensation Committee. The maximum award payable to a participant for any plan year will not exceed $5,000,000. The qualifying performance criteria and details of the MIP are set forth in Huntington's definitive Proxy Statement filed on March 9, 2011 (Proxy Statement).
Also at the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on April 21, 2011, Huntington's shareholders approved the Supplemental Stock Purchase and Tax Savings Plan and Trust (Supplemental Plan) a nonqualified deferred compensation plan that was originally adopted effective March 1, 1989. The Supplemental Plan provides a supplemental savings program for policy-making employees, as designated by the Compensation Committee, whose contributions to Huntington's broad-based tax qualified 401(k) plan are limited due provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. The intent of the Supplemental Plan is that contributions, both employee contributions made by participating employees and employer matching contributions made by Huntington, be invested in the company's common stock. Huntington's board of directors authorized an additional 500,000 shares of common stock for the Supplemental Plan on February 16, 2011 and asked shareholders to approve the Supplemental Plan so that employer matching contributions as well as employee contributions may be invested in the additional shares of common stock. The Supplemental Plan is described in greater detail in the Proxy Statement.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
On April 21, 2011, Huntington's shareholders voted on six proposals at the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders as further described in the Proxy Statement. The final voting results are reported below.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


