FILE:HBAN/HBAN-8K-20110420094529.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 20, 2011, Huntington Bancshares Incorporated ("Huntington") issued a news release announcing its earnings for the quarter ended March 31, 2011. Also on April 20, 2011, Huntington made a Quarterly Performance Discussion and Financial Review available on its web site, .
www.huntington-ir.com
Huntington's senior management will host an earnings conference call April 20, 2011, at 10:00 a.m. (Eastern Time). The call may be accessed via a live Internet webcast at or through a dial-in telephone number at 800-267-7495, conference ID 52894827. Slides will be available at just prior to the call. A replay of the web cast will be archived in the Investor Relations section of Huntington's web site at A telephone replay will be available two hours after the completion of the call through April 29, 2011, at 800-642-1687; conference call ID 52894827.
www.huntington-ir.com
www.huntington-ir.com
www.huntington.com.
The information contained or incorporated by reference in this Current Report on Form 8-K contains certain forward-looking statements, including certain plans, expectations, goals, projections, and statements, which are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those contained or implied by such statements for a variety of factors including: (1) worsening of credit quality performance due to a number of factors such as the underlying value of the collateral could prove less valuable than otherwise assumed and assumed cash flows may be worse than expected; (2) changes in economic conditions; (3) movements in interest rates; (4) competitive pressures on product pricing and services; (5) success, impact, and timing of our business strategies, including market acceptance of any new products or services introduced to implement our "Fair Play" banking philosophy; (6) changes in accounting policies and principles and the accuracy of our assumptions and estimates used to prepare our financial statements; (7) extended disruption of vital infrastructure; (8) the final outcome of significant litigation; and (9) the nature, extent, and timing of governmental actions and reforms, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as future regulations which will be adopted by the relevant regulatory agencies, including the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), to implement the Act's provisions. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described above can be found in Huntington's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and documents subsequently filed by Huntington with the Securities and Exchange Commission All forward-looking statements included in this Current Report on Form 8-K are based on information available at the time of the Report. Huntington assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
 
Exhibit 99.3 includes certain ratios, specifically the tangible common equity ratio, and the Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio, which are non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are included in this report because the Federal Reserve indicated that as part of their Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP), a year-end 2010 Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio of 4.0% would be needed. Although Huntington is not one of the SCAP bank holding companies, the market has accepted this as a "de facto" standard for being adequately capitalized since 10 of the 19 bank holding companies included in SCAP were directed to increase their capital levels to meet this targeted threshold. Other companies may calculate these financial measures differently. Risk-weighted assets are calculated under regulatory capital rules applicable to us as discussed more fully on page 7 of our Form 10-K. The tangible common equity ratio, tangible assets, and Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio were calculated as follows:
Capital Adequacy Reconciliations
 
The information contained or incorporated by reference in Item 2.02 of this Form 8-K shall be treated as "furnished" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The exhibits referenced below shall be treated as "furnished" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS
Date: April 20, 2011
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE 
 
COLUMBUS, Ohio  Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (NASDAQ: HBAN; ) reported 2011 first quarter net income of $126.4 million, or $0.14 per common share. The current quarter included a reduction of $0.01 per common share related to additions to litigation reserves. This compared with net income of $122.9 million, or $0.05 per common share, in the 2010 fourth quarter. The prior quarter included a reduction of $0.07 per common share for the deemed dividend resulting from that quarter's repurchase of TARP capital. Net income in the year-ago quarter was $39.7 million, or $0.01 per common share.
www.huntington.com
Summary Performance Discussion Compared with 2010 Fourth Quarter
"First quarter results were consistent with our expectations and set the stage for continued earnings growth throughout this year," said Stephen D. Steinour, chairman, president, and chief executive. "Throughout last year, and continuing into this year, we are taking advantage of what we view as a moment in time to make significant investments in strategic initiatives to position us for more profitable and sustainable long-term growth. Reflecting these factors and the reality of certain near-term revenue headwinds, we previously noted that the primary driver of earnings growth in early 2011 would be lower provision for credit losses as credit quality continued to improve. As such, we are very pleased with this quarter's continued, significant improvement in our credit quality. Nonaccrual and criticized loans again saw significant declines. Net charge-offs improved. As a result, our provision for credit losses declined. Nevertheless, our allowance for credit losses relative to the level of nonaccrual loans strengthened further."
The provision for credit losses declined $37.6 million, or 43%, from the 2010 fourth quarter. This reflected an 18% decline in nonaccrual loans from the end of the prior quarter, commensurate with a 19% decrease in the level of new nonaccrual loans. Total criticized commercial loans declined 13% during the quarter and reflected a 41% decrease in new criticized commercial loans. While the period end allowance for credit losses (ACL) as a percentage of total loans and leases declined to 3.07% from 3.39%, the ACL as a percentage of total nonaccrual loans (NALs) increased to 185% from 166%. Net charge-offs were $165.1 million, or an annualized 1.73% of average total loans and leases, down from $172.3 million, or 1.82%, in the 2010 fourth quarter.
Net interest income declined $11.0 million, or 3%, from the fourth quarter. This reflected a 2% (8% annualized) decrease in average earning assets partially offset by a 5 basis point increase in the fully-taxable equivalent net interest margin to 3.42% from 3.37%. The decrease in average earning assets reflected a combination of factors including a $0.6 billion, or 6% (25% annualized), decrease in average available-for-sale and other securities. Contributing to this decline were sales of $0.2 billion of investment securities that partially funded the 2010 fourth quarter repurchase of TARP capital. The negative impact of the available-for-sale and other securities decline was partially offset by a $0.3 billion, or 1% (3% annualized), increase in average total loans and leases. Loan growth in commercial and industrial loans (C&I) as well as automobile loans was strong, up 11% and 13% annualized, respectively. Noncore commercial real estate (CRE) loans continued its planned decline. Importantly, the core deposit mix continued to improve given strong 2% (8% annualized) growth in noninterest-bearing demand deposits.
 
"The linked-quarter decline in net interest income reflected the impact of fewer days and a decline in average available-for-sale and other securities, as the fully-taxable equivalent net interest margin increased," Steinour commented. "We are optimistic that net interest income will increase in coming quarters as we expect loan and core deposits to continue to grow with our net interest margin remaining relatively stable. We are especially pleased with this quarter's increase in our net interest margin as this primarily reflected the benefit of continued growth in low cost noninterest bearing demand deposits. These deposits are our most profitable and represent the primary customer banking relationship. During the quarter, consumer checking account households grew at a 9% annualized rate, reflecting the traction we are gaining with customers in our markets as they increasingly embrace the benefits offered through our Fair Play' banking philosophy with programs such as 24-Hour Grace on overdrafts."
Total noninterest income declined $27.3 million, or 10%. This reflected a $30.5 million, or 57%, decline in mortgage banking income from the fourth quarter primarily related to a 49% decline in mortgage originations. Trust services income increased 5% and brokerage income grew 21% from the 2010 fourth quarter.
"The decline in noninterest income was driven by the anticipated decrease in mortgage banking income due to expected lower originations as mortgage interest rates increased late in the fourth quarter and mortgage originations slowed," Steinour noted. "Given recent origination data, we believe mortgage banking income will likely stabilize at the first quarter's run rate. Aside from mortgage banking, we are encouraged by the growth in trust services and brokerage income, two areas in which we have been making strategic investments."
Total noninterest expense declined $3.9 million, or 1%, reflecting declines in legal costs as collection activities declined, consulting expenses, OREO and foreclosure costs, and a number of other expense categories. Partially offsetting these declines was $17.0 million in additions to litigation reserves, seasonal increase in certain expenses, most notably personnel costs related to the annual FICA and other benefit expense resets, as well as March's annual merit increases for nonexecutives.
"We were very pleased to see a reduction in noninterest expense despite additions to litigation reserves, the usual seasonal increases, and expenses related to making strategic investments," Steinour continued.
On January 19, 2011, we repurchased for $49.1 million the warrant to purchase 23.6 million common shares issued to the U.S. Department of the Treasury in connection with the Capital Purchase Program under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). While the repurchase of this warrant had the positive effect of removing any possible future share dilutive impact, it negatively impacted our capital ratios. For example, the warrant repurchase negatively impacted our tangible common equity ratio by 9 basis points. Nevertheless, due to the first quarter's earnings growth our March 31, 2011, capital ratios increased from the end of last year.
"The repurchase of this warrant closed our relationship with the U.S. Department of the Treasury with regard to the TARP capital. Our strong capital ratios and expectation for continued growth in earnings and capital positions us to actively explore capital management opportunities, including raising the dividend," Steinour concluded.
The Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio at March 31, 2011, was 9.75%, up from 9.29% at the end of the prior quarter, and the tangible common equity ratio increased to 7.81% from 7.56%. The regulatory Tier 1 and Total capital ratios were 12.04% and 14.85%, respectively, up from 11.55% and 14.46%, respectively, at the end of last year.
 
Pre-Tax, Pre-Provision Income Trends
One metric that Management believes is useful in analyzing performance is the level of earnings adjusted to exclude provision expense, securities gains or losses, and amortization of intangibles. In addition, earnings are adjusted for items identified by Management to be outside of ordinary banking activities, and/or by items that, while they may be associated with ordinary banking activities, are so unusually large that their outsized impact is believed by Management at the time to be infrequent or short-term in nature, which Management believes may distort the company's underlying performance trends
(see Pre-Tax, Pre-Provision Income in Basis of Presentation for a full discussion).
Pre-Tax, Pre-Provision Income
(1)
Pre-tax, pre-provision income was $240.9 million in the 2011 first quarter, down $19.1 million, or 7%, from the prior quarter. From a run-rate basis, the decline reflected:
Expectations
We are optimistic about our prospects for continued earnings growth for the rest of the year.
Borrower and consumer confidence and the sustainability of the slow economic recovery remain major factors impacting growth opportunities for the rest of 2011. Unfortunately, during the 2011 first quarter a number of issues have emerged, however, that could negatively impact the recovery. These include the continued instability in the Middle East with its ramifications on the cost of oil, and the crisis in Japan that could negatively impact the production of consumer goods and services, most notably the electronics and auto sectors. For now, we continue to believe that the economy will remain relatively stable throughout the coming year, with the potential for improvement in the latter half.
 
Net income is expected to grow from the first quarter level throughout the rest of the year as pre-tax, pre-provision income rebounds from this quarter's level.
We believe the momentum we are seeing in loan and deposit growth, coupled with a stable net interest margin, will contribute to growth in net interest income. Our C&I portfolio is expected to continue to show meaningful growth with much of this reflecting the positive impact from strategic initiatives to expand our commercial lending expertise into areas like specialty banking, asset based lending, and equipment financing, in addition to our long-standing continued support of small business lending. Growth in automobile loans is also expected to remain strong, aided by our expansion into new markets. Home equity and residential mortgages are likely to show only modest growth until there is more consumer confidence in the sustainability of the economic recovery.
We anticipate our core deposits will continue to grow, reflecting growth in consumer households and business relationships. Further, we expect the shift toward lower-cost noninterest bearing demand deposit accounts will continue.
From a fee income perspective, first quarter results reflect for the most part the negative run rate impacts from the decline in mortgage banking income and deposit service charges. Mortgage banking income will likely show only modest, if any, growth throughout the rest of this year. Service charge income should begin to show modest growth later in this year as the benefits from our "Fair Play" banking philosophy continue to gain momentum commensurate with consumer household growth and increased product penetration.
Electronic banking income in the second half of the year could be negatively impacted by as much as $45 million if the Federal Reserve's currently proposed interchange fee structure is implemented July 21, 2011 as planned. There are some congressional movements to block or postpone the implementation, but any outcome is uncertain at this time. We also expect to see continued growth in the earnings contribution from other key fee income activities including capital markets, treasury management services, and brokerage, reflecting the impact of our cross-sell and product penetration initiatives throughout the company, as well as the positive impact from strategic initiatives.
Expense levels are expected to remain relatively stable with declines resulting from continued low credit costs and improved expense efficiencies, offset by continued investments in strategic initiatives.
Nonaccrual loans are expected to continue to decline meaningfully throughout the year.
We anticipate the effective tax rate for the remainder of the year to approximate 35% of income before income taxes less approximately $60.0 million of permanent tax differences over the remainder of 2011 primarily related to tax-exempt income, tax-advantaged investments, and general business credits.
Please see the 2011 First Quarter Performance Discussion for an additional detailed review of this quarter's performance. This document can be found at:
http://www.investquest.com/iq/h/hban/ne/finnews/
 
Conference Call / Webcast Information
Huntington's senior management will host an earnings conference call on Wednesday, April 20, 2011, at 10:00 a.m. (Eastern Time). The call may be accessed via a live Internet webcast at www.huntington-ir.com or through a dial-in telephone number at (800) 267-7495; conference ID 52894827. Slides will be available at www.huntington-ir.com about an hour prior to the call. A replay of the webcast will be archived in the Investor Relations section of Huntington's web site www.huntington.com. A telephone replay will be available two hours after the completion of the call through April 29, 2011 at (800) 642-1687; conference ID 52894827.
Forward-looking Statement
This document contains certain forward-looking statements, including certain plans, expectations, goals, projections, and statements, which are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those contained or implied by such statements for a variety of factors including: (1) worsening of credit quality performance due to a number of factors such as the underlying value of the collateral could prove less valuable than otherwise assumed and assumed cash flows may be worse than expected; (2) changes in economic conditions; (3) movements in interest rates; (4) competitive pressures on product pricing and services; (5) success, impact, and timing of our business strategies, including market acceptance of any new products or services introduced to implement our "Fair Play" banking philosophy; (6) changes in accounting policies and principles and the accuracy of our assumptions and estimates used to prepare our financial statements; (7) extended disruption of vital infrastructure; (8) the final outcome of significant litigation; and (9) the nature, extent, and timing of governmental actions and reforms, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as future regulations which will be adopted by the relevant regulatory agencies, including the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), to implement the Act's provisions. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described above can be found in Huntington's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and documents subsequently filed by Huntington with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available at the time of the release. Huntington assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Basis of Presentation
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This document may contain GAAP financial measures and non-GAAP financial measures where management believes it to be helpful in understanding Huntington's results of operations or financial position. Where non-GAAP financial measures are used, the comparable GAAP financial measure, as well as the reconciliation to the comparable GAAP financial measure, can be found in this document, the 2011 first quarter Quarterly Performance Discussion and Quarterly Financial Review supplements to this document, the 2011 first quarter earnings conference call slides, or the Form 8-K related to this document, all of which can be found on Huntington's website at www.huntington-ir.com.
Pre-Tax, Pre-Provision Income
One non-GAAP performance metric that Management believes is useful in analyzing underlying performance trends is pre-tax, pre-provision income. This is the level of earnings adjusted to exclude the impact of:
 
Annualized data
Certain returns, yields, performance ratios, or quarterly growth rates are presented on an "annualized" basis. This is done for analytical and decision-making purposes to better discern underlying performance trends when compared to full year or year-over-year amounts. For example, loan and deposit growth rates, as well as net charge-off percentages, are most often expressed in terms of an annual rate like 8%. As such, a 2% growth rate for a quarter would represent an annualized 8% growth rate.
Fully-taxable equivalent interest income and net interest margin
Income from tax-exempt earning assets is increased by an amount equivalent to the taxes that would have been paid if this income had been taxable at statutory rates. This adjustment puts all earning assets, most notably tax-exempt municipal securities and certain lease assets, on a common basis that facilitates comparison of results to results of competitors.
Earnings per share equivalent data
Significant income or expense items may be expressed on a per common share basis. This is done for analytical and decision-making purposes to better discern underlying trends in total corporate earnings per share performance excluding the impact of such items. Investors may also find this information helpful in their evaluation of the company's financial performance against published earnings per share mean estimate amounts, which typically exclude the impact of Significant Items. Earnings per share equivalents are usually calculated by applying a 35% effective tax rate to a pre-tax amount to derive an after-tax amount, which is divided by the average shares outstanding during the respective reporting period. Occasionally, when the item involves special tax treatment, the after-tax amount is disclosed separately, with this then being the amount used to calculate the earnings per share equivalent.
About Huntington
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated is a $53 billion regional bank holding company headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. Founded in 1866, Huntington provides full-service commercial, small business, and consumer banking services; mortgage banking services; treasury management and foreign exchange services; equipment leasing; wealth and investment management services; trust services; brokerage services; customized insurance brokerage and service programs; and other financial product and services. The principal markets for these services are Huntington's six-state banking franchise: Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Indiana, West Virginia, and Kentucky. The primary distribution channels include a banking network of over 600 traditional branches and convenience branches located in grocery stores and retirement centers, and through an array of alternative distribution channels including internet and mobile banking, telephone banking, and over 1,300 ATMs. Through automotive dealership relationships within its six-state banking franchise area and selected New England states, Huntington also provides commercial banking services to the automotive dealers and retail automobile financing for dealer customers.

Exhibit 99.2
Date: April 20, 2011
The following provides detailed earnings performance discussion that complements the summary review contained in Huntington Bancshares Incorporated's (NASDAQ: HBAN) 2011 First Quarter Earnings Press Release, which can be found at:
http://www.investquest.com/iq/h/hban/ne/finnews/
Earnings Performance Summary
Table 1  Earnings Performance Summary
Significant Items Influencing Financial Performance Comparisons
From time to time, revenue, expenses, or taxes are impacted by items judged by Management to be outside of ordinary banking activities and/or by items that, while they may be associated with ordinary banking activities, are so unusually large that their outsized impact is believed by Management at that time to be infrequent or short-term in nature. Management believes the disclosure of "Significant Items" in current and prior period results aids analysts/investors in better understanding corporate performance trends.
(See Significant Items under the Basis of Presentation for a full discussion.)
 
Significant Items impacting reported results for the 2011 first quarter and 2010 fourth and first quarters are shown in Table 2 below:
Table 2  Significant Items Influencing Earnings Performance Comparisons
NA- Not applicable
Net Interest Income, Net Interest Margin, and Average Balance Sheet
2011 First Quarter versus 2010 Fourth Quarter
Fully-taxable equivalent net interest income decreased $10.7 million, or 3%, from the 2010 fourth quarter. This reflected a 2% (8% annualized) decrease in average earning assets as the fully-taxable equivalent net interest margin increased to 3.42% from 3.37%. The decrease in average earning assets reflected a combination of factors including:
Partially offset by:
The net interest margin increased 5 basis points, reflecting the positive impacts of increases in low cost deposits, improved deposit pricing, and day count, partially offset by the negative impacts of a reduction in swap income, lower loan yields, and the issuance of subordinated debt.
 
Table 3  Loans and Leases  1Q11 vs. 4Q10
Average total loans and leases increased $0.3 billion or 1% (3% annualized) from the 2010 fourth quarter, reflecting:
Partially offset by:
 
Table 4  Deposits  1Q11 vs. 4Q10
Average total deposits were unchanged from the 2010 fourth quarter reflecting:
Partially offset by:
2011 First Quarter versus 2010 First Quarter
Fully-taxable equivalent net interest income increased $12.1 million, or 3%, from the year-ago quarter. This reflected the benefit of a $2.1 billion, or 5%, increase in average total earning assets as the fully-taxable equivalent net interest margin declined to 3.42% from 3.47%. The increase in average earning assets reflected a combination of factors including:
The 5 basis point decline in the fully-taxable equivalent net interest margin reflected the impact of stronger deposit growth funding investment security purchases at a lower incremental spread.
 
Table 5  Loans and Leases  1Q11 vs. 1Q10
Average total loans and leases increased $1.1 billion, or 3%, from the year-ago quarter reflecting:
Partially offset by:
 
Table 6  Deposits  1Q11 vs. 1Q10
Average total deposits increased $1.4 billion, or 4%, from the year-ago quarter reflecting:
Partially offset by:
Provision for Credit Losses
The provision for credit losses in the 2011 first quarter was $49.4 million, down $37.6 million, or 43%, from the prior quarter and down $185.6 million, or 79%, from the year-ago quarter. Reflecting the resolution of problem credits for which reserves had been previously established, the current quarter's provision for credit losses was $115.7 million less than total net charge-offs (
see Credit Quality discussion).
 
Noninterest Income
2011 First Quarter versus 2010 Fourth Quarter
Table 7  Noninterest Income  1Q11 vs. 4Q10
Noninterest income decreased $27.3 million, or 10%, from the 2010 fourth quarter reflecting:
Partially offset by:
 
2011 First Quarter versus 2010 First Quarter
Table 8  Noninterest Income  1Q11 vs. 1Q10
Noninterest income declined $3.9 million, or 2%, from the year-ago quarter reflecting:
Partially offset by:
 
Noninterest Expense
2011 First Quarter versus 2010 Fourth Quarter
Table 9  Noninterest Expense  1Q11 vs. 4Q10
Noninterest expense declined $3.9 million, or 1%, from the 2010 fourth quarter reflecting:
Partially offset by:
 
2011 First Quarter versus 2010 First Quarter
Table 10  Noninterest Expense  1Q11 vs. 1Q10
Noninterest expense increased $32.6 million, or 8%, from the year-ago quarter reflecting:
Partially offset by:
 
Income Taxes
The provision for income taxes in the 2011 first quarter was $34.7 million. The effective tax rate for the 2011 first quarter was 21.6%. At March 31, 2011, we had a net deferred tax asset of $532.6 million. Based on both positive and negative evidence and our level of forecasted future taxable income, there was no impairment to the deferred tax asset at March 31, 2011. The total disallowed deferred tax asset for regulatory capital purposes decreased to $89.9 million at March 31, 2011 from $161.3 million at December 31, 2010.
We anticipate the effective tax rate for the remainder of the year to approximate 35% of income before income taxes less approximately $60.0 million of permanent tax differences over the remainder of 2011 primarily related to tax-exempt income, tax-advantaged investments, and general business credits.
Credit Quality Performance Discussion
Credit quality performance in the 2011 first quarter was in line with expectations with continued improvement in C&I charge-offs, and some noticeable improvement in consumer charge-offs, even after considering a change in our residential mortgage charge-off policy.
Other key credit quality metrics also showed improvement, including an 18% decline in nonperforming assets (NPAs) and a 13% decline in the level of criticized commercial loans. We continued to see a reduction in the inflow of new NPAs, as well as criticized assets. Upgrades, payments, and charge-offs resulted in substantially lower ending NPA and criticized asset balances. All credit indicators point to these solid trends continuing. Delinquency trends continued to improve, on both a linked-quarter and year-over-year basis. Risk characteristics point to solid credit quality across originations for all loan types.
This quarter's net charge-offs were primarily related to borrowers with reserves established in prior periods. Our allowance for credit losses (ACL) declined $115.7 million, or 9%, to $1,175.4 million, or 3.07% of period-end total loans and leases, from $1,291.1 million, or 3.39%, at December 31, 2010. Importantly, our ACL as a percent of period-end NALs increased to 185% from 166%, along with improved coverage ratios associated with NPAs and criticized assets. These improved coverage ratios indicate a strengthening of our reserves relative to troubled assets from the end of the prior quarter.
 
Net Charge-Offs (NCOs)
Table 11  Net Charge-Offs
Total net charge-offs for the 2011 first quarter were $165.1 million, or an annualized 1.73% of average total loans and leases. This was down $7.2 million, or 4%, from $172.3 million, or an annualized 1.82%, in the 2010 fourth quarter.
Total C&I net charge-offs for the 2011 first quarter were $42.2 million, or an annualized 1.29%, down 29% from $59.1 million, or an annualized 1.85% of related loans, in the 2010 fourth quarter.
Current quarter CRE net charge-offs were $67.7 million, or an annualized 4.15% of average total CRE loans. This was up $22.8 million, or 51%, from $44.9 million, or an annualized 2.64%, in the prior quarter. The increase in CRE net charge-offs reflected continued proactive treatment of problem loans and an increase in note sale activity in the current quarter. We expect to see lower CRE net charge-offs in future quarters.
Total consumer net charge-offs in the current quarter were $55.2 million, or an annualized 1.20% of average total consumer loans, down $13.1 million, or 19%, from $68.3 million, or an annualized 1.50%, in the 2010 fourth quarter.
Automobile loan and lease net charge-offs were $4.7 million, or an annualized 0.33% of related average balances, down 33% from $7.0 million, or an annualized 0.51%, in the 2010 fourth quarter. The level of net charge-offs and delinquencies were better than expected, and also benefitted from $0.5 million of recoveries associated with a previously charged-off loan sale. Origination quality remains high as measured by our vintage analysis.
 
Home equity net charge-offs were $26.7 million, or an annualized 1.38% of related average balances, down 9% from $29.2 million, or an annualized 1.51%, in the 2010 fourth quarter. This performance was consistent with expectations given the current economic environment in our markets.
Residential mortgage net charge-offs in the current quarter were $18.9 million, or an annualized 1.70% of related loans, down 29% from $26.8 million, or an annualized 2.42%, in the prior quarter. In the 2011 first quarter, we implemented a change regarding net charge-offs in our residential mortgage portfolio by accelerating the timing for when a charge-off is recognized. In addition, we established an immediate charge-off process regardless of the delinquency status for short sale situations. Both of these policy changes resulted in the recognition $6.8 million of charge-offs in the 2011 first quarter.
Nonaccrual Loans (NALs) and Nonperforming Assets (NPAs)
Table 12  Nonaccrual Loans and Nonperforming Assets
Total nonaccrual loans and leases (NALs) were $636.3 million at March 31, 2011, and represented 1.66% of total loans and leases. This was down $141.6 million, or 18%, from $777.9 million, or 2.04% of total loans and leases, at December 31, 2010.
C&I NALs decreased $86.3 million, or 25%, from the end of the prior quarter, reflecting both charge-offs and problem credit resolutions including payments and payoffs. The improvement was broad based within our geographic footprint. Improvement in the manufacturing-related segment accounted for a significant portion of the decline.
 
CRE NALs decreased $57.9 million, or 16%, from December 31, 2010, reflecting both charge-offs and problem credit resolutions including borrower payments and payoffs. Trends in CRE NALs continue to reflect our on-going proactive management of these credits. Also key to this improvement was the lower level of inflows, or migration, which is an important indicator of the future trend for the portfolio.
Nonperforming assets (NPAs), which include NALs, were $690.9 million at March 31, 2011, and represented 1.80% of related assets. This was down $153.9 million, or 18%, from $844.8 million, or 2.21%, of related assets at the end of the prior quarter.
Table 13  90 Days Past Due and Accruing Restructured Loans
Total accruing loans and leases over 90 days past due, excluding loans guaranteed by the U.S. Government, were $73.6 million at March 31, 2011, down $14.1 million, or 16%, from the end of the prior quarter, and down $39.6 million, or 35%, from the end of the year-ago period. On this same basis, the over 90-day delinquency ratio was 0.19% at March 31, 2011, down from 0.23% at the end of the 2010 fourth quarter, and down 12 basis points from a year earlier. For total consumer loans, and on this same basis, the over 90-day delinquency ratio was 0.39% at March 31, 2011, down from 0.48% at the end of the prior quarter.
Allowances for Credit Losses (ACL)
We maintain two reserves, both of which are available to absorb inherent credit losses: the allowance for loan and lease losses (ALLL) and the allowance for unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit (AULC). When summed together, these reserves constitute the total ACL.
 
Table 14  Allowances for Credit Losses (ACL)
At March 31, 2011, the ALLL was $1,133.2 million, down $115.8 million, or 9%, from $1,249.0 million at the end of the prior quarter. Expressed as a percent of period-end loans and leases, the ALLL ratio at March 31, 2011, was 2.96%, down from 3.28% at December 31, 2010. The ALLL as a percent of NALs was 178% at March 31, 2011, up from 161% at December 31, 2010.
At December 31, 2010, the AULC was $42.2 million, up $0.1 million, from the end of the prior quarter.
On a combined basis, the ACL as a percent of total loans and leases at March 31, 2011, was 3.07%, down from 3.39% at December 31, 2010. The ACL as a percent of NALs was 185% at March 31, 2011, up from 166% at December 31, 2010, indicating additional strength in the reserve level relative to the level of problem credits.
Capital
Table 15  Capital Ratios
 
The tangible common equity to asset ratio at March 31, 2011, was 7.81%, up 25 basis points from 7.56% at the end of the prior quarter, despite a 9 basis point negative impact related to the repurchase of the TARP warrants.
Our Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio at quarter end was 9.75%, up from 9.29% at the end of the prior quarter.
At March 31, 2011, our regulatory Tier 1 and Total risk-based capital ratios were 12.04% and 14.85%, respectively, up from 11.55% and 14.46%, respectively, at December 31, 2010.
Forward-looking Statement
This document contains certain forward-looking statements, including certain plans, expectations, goals, projections, and statements, which are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those contained or implied by such statements for a variety of factors including: (1) worsening of credit quality performance due to a number of factors such as the underlying value of the collateral could prove less valuable than otherwise assumed and assumed cash flows may be worse than expected; (2) changes in economic conditions; (3) movements in interest rates; (4) competitive pressures on product pricing and services; (5) success, impact, and timing of our business strategies, including market acceptance of any new products or services introduced to implement our "Fair Play" banking philosophy; (6) changes in accounting policies and principles and the accuracy of our assumptions and estimates used to prepare our financial statements; (7) extended disruption of vital infrastructure; (8) the final outcome of significant litigation; and (9) the nature, extent, and timing of governmental actions and reforms, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as future regulations which will be adopted by the relevant regulatory agencies, including the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), to implement the Act's provisions. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described above can be found in Huntington's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and documents subsequently filed by Huntington with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available at the time of the release. Huntington assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Basis of Presentation
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This document may contain GAAP financial measures and non-GAAP financial measures where management believes it to be helpful in understanding Huntington's results of operations or financial position. Where non-GAAP financial measures are used, the comparable GAAP financial measure, as well as the reconciliation to the comparable GAAP financial measure, can be found in this document, the 2011 first quarter Earnings Press Release and Quarterly Financial Review, the 2011 first quarter earnings conference call slides, or the Form 8-K related to this document, all of which can be found on Huntington's website at www.huntington-ir.com.
Significant Items
From time to time, revenue, expenses, or taxes are impacted by items judged by Management to be outside of ordinary banking activities and/or by items that, while they may be associated with ordinary banking activities, are so unusually large that their outsized impact is believed by Management at that time to be infrequent or short-term in nature. We refer to such items as "Significant Items". Most often, these Significant Items result from factors originating outside the company  e.g., regulatory actions/assessments, windfall gains, changes in accounting principles, one-time tax assessments/refunds, litigation actions, etc. In other cases they may result from Management decisions associated with significant corporate actions out of the ordinary course of business  e.g., merger/restructuring charges, recapitalization actions, goodwill impairment, etc.
Even though certain revenue and expense items are naturally subject to more volatility than others due to changes in market and economic environment conditions, as a general rule volatility alone does not define a Significant Item. For example, changes in the provision for credit losses, gains/losses from investment activities, asset valuation writedowns, etc., reflect ordinary banking activities and are, therefore, typically excluded from consideration as a Significant Item.
 
Management believes the disclosure of "Significant Items" in current and prior period results aids analysts/investors in better understanding corporate performance and trends so that they can ascertain which of such items, if any, they may wish to include/exclude from their analysis of the company's performance; i.e., within the context of determining how that performance differed from their expectations, as well as how, if at all, to adjust their estimates of future performance accordingly. To this end, Management has adopted a practice of listing "Significant Items" in its external disclosure documents (e.g., earnings press releases, quarterly performance discussions, investor presentations, Forms 10-Q and 10-K).
"Significant Items" for any particular period are not intended to be a complete list of items that may materially impact current or future period performance. A number of items could materially impact these periods, including those described in Huntington's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K and other factors described from time to time in Huntington's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Annualized data
Certain returns, yields, performance ratios, or quarterly growth rates are presented on an "annualized" basis. This is done for analytical and decision-making purposes to better discern underlying performance trends when compared to full year or year-over-year amounts. For example, loan and deposit growth rates, as well as net charge-off percentages, are most often expressed in terms of an annual rate like 8%. As such, a 2% growth rate for a quarter would represent an annualized 8% growth rate.
Fully-taxable equivalent interest income and net interest margin
Income from tax-exempt earning assets is increased by an amount equivalent to the taxes that would have been paid if this income had been taxable at statutory rates. This adjustment puts all earning assets, most notably tax-exempt municipal securities and certain lease assets, on a common basis that facilitates comparison of results to results of competitors.
Earnings per share equivalent data
Significant income or expense items may be expressed on a per common share basis. This is done for analytical and decision-making purposes to better discern underlying trends in total corporate earnings per share performance excluding the impact of such items. Investors may also find this information helpful in their evaluation of the company's financial performance against published earnings per share mean estimate amounts, which typically exclude the impact of Significant Items. Earnings per share equivalents are usually calculated by applying a 35% effective tax rate to a pre-tax amount to derive an after-tax amount, which is divided by the average shares outstanding during the respective reporting period. Occasionally, when the item involves special tax treatment, the after-tax amount is disclosed separately, with this then being the amount used to calculate the earnings per share equivalent.

Exhibit 99.3
Notes:
The preparation of financial statement data in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation.
 
HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED Quarterly Key Statistics
(1)
(Unaudited)
N.R.  Not relevant, as denominator of calculation is a loss in prior period compared with income in current period.
See Notes to the Quarterly Key Statistics.
 
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Consolidated Balance Sheets
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Loans and Leases Composition
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Deposits Composition
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Consolidated Quarterly Average Balance Sheets
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Consolidated Quarterly Net Interest Margin Analysis
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Selected Quarterly Income Statement Data
(1)
(Unaudited)
 
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Quarterly Mortgage Banking Income
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Quarterly Credit Reserves Analysis
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Quarterly Net Charge-Off Analysis
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Quarterly Nonaccrual Loans and Leases (NALs) and Nonperforming Assets (NPAs)
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Quarterly Accruing Past Due Loans and Leases and Accruing Troubled Debt Restructured Loans
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Quarterly Common Stock Summary, Capital, and Other Data
(Unaudited)
Quarterly common stock summary


