FILE:HBAN/HBAN-8K-20110321161401.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On March 21, 2011, Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (Huntington) issued a press release disclosing that on Friday, March 18, 2011, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court Western District of Michigan has ruled that Huntington National Bank, the banking subsidiary of Huntington, may be required to pay up to $73 million to a trustee representing lenders defrauded by former Michigan-based Teleservices Group and a related company, Cyberco. Huntington noted that no judgment fixing damages has been issued and that it plans to aggressively contest the claims of this complex case, which is subject to further proceedings. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is being furnished herewith: Exhibit 99.1 - News Release of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, dated March 21, 2011.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

March 21, 2011
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE 
COLUMBUS, Ohio  As reported late Friday, March 18, 2011, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court Western District of Michigan has ruled that Huntington National Bank, the banking subsidiary of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (NASDAQ: HBAN), may be required to pay up to $73 million to a trustee representing lenders defrauded by former Michigan-based Teleservices Group and a related company, Cyberco.
Huntington noted that no judgment fixing damages has been issued and that it plans to aggressively contest the claims of this complex case, which is subject to further proceedings. As this case continues to be litigated, no additional comments can be provided at this time.
About Huntington
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated is a $54 billion regional bank holding company headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. Founded in 1866, it provides full-service commercial, small business, and consumer banking services; mortgage banking services; treasury management and foreign exchange services; equipment leasing; wealth and investment management services; trust services; brokerage services; customized insurance brokerage and service programs; and other financial product and services. The principal markets for these services are Huntington's six-state banking franchise: Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Indiana, West Virginia, and Kentucky. The primary distribution channels include a banking network of over 600 traditional branches and convenience branches located in grocery stores and retirement centers, and through an array of alternative distribution channels including internet and mobile banking, telephone banking, and over 1,300 ATMs. Through automotive dealership relationships within its six-state banking franchise area and selected New England states, Huntington also provides commercial banking services to the automotive dealers and retail automobile financing for dealer customers.


