FILE:HBAN/HBAN-8K-20110120091104.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 20, 2011, Huntington Bancshares Incorporated ("Huntington") issued a news release announcing its earnings for the quarter ended December 31, 2010. Also on January 20, 2011, Huntington made a Quarterly Financial Review available on its web site, .
www.huntington-ir.com
Huntington's senior management will host an earnings conference call January 20, 2011, at 10:00 a.m. (Eastern Time). The call may be accessed via a live Internet webcast at or through a dial-in telephone number at 800-267-7495, conference ID 33285653. Slides will be available at just prior to the call. A replay of the web cast will be archived in the Investor Relations section of Huntington's web site at . A telephone replay will be available two hours after the completion of the call through January 31, 2011, at 800-642-1687; conference call ID 33285653.
www.huntington-ir.com
www.huntington-ir.com
www.huntington.com
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements, including certain plans, expectations, goals, projections, and statements, which are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those contained or implied by such statements for a variety of factors including: (1) worsening of credit quality performance due to a number of factors such as the underlying value of the collateral could prove less valuable than otherwise assumed and assumed cash flows may be worse than expected; (2) changes in economic conditions; (3) movements in interest rates; (4) competitive pressures on product pricing and services; (5) success, impact, and timing of our business strategies, including market acceptance of any new products or services introduced to implement our Fair Play banking philosophy; (6) changes in accounting policies and principles and the accuracy of our assumptions and estimates used to prepare our financial statements;(7) extended disruption of vital infrastructure; and (8) the nature, extent, and timing of governmental actions and reforms, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as future regulations which will be adopted by the relevant regulatory agencies, including the newly created Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CAP), to implement the Act's provisions. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described above can be found in Huntington's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and documents subsequently filed by Huntington with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements included in this release are based on information available at the time of the release. Huntington assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
 
Exhibit 99.2 includes certain ratios, specifically the tangible common equity ratio, and the Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio, which are non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are included in this report because the Federal Reserve indicated that as part of their Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP), a year-end 2010 Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio of 4.0% would be needed. Although Huntington is not one of the SCAP bank holding companies, the market has accepted this as a "de facto" standard for being adequately capitalized since 10 of the 19 bank holding companies included in SCAP were directed to increase their capital levels to meet this targeted threshold. Other companies may calculate these financial measures differently. Risk-weighted assets are calculated under regulatory capital rules applicable to us as discussed more fully on page 8 of our Form 10-K. The tangible common equity ratio, tangible assets, and Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio were calculated as follows:
Capital Adequacy Reconciliations
 
The information contained or incorporated by reference in Item 2.02 of this Form 8-K shall be treated as "furnished" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The exhibits referenced below shall be treated as "furnished" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS
Date: January 20, 2011
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE 
RESULTS COMPARED WITH 2010 THIRD QUARTER REFLECTED:
 
COLUMBUS, Ohio  Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (NASDAQ: HBAN; ) reported 2010 fourth quarter net income of $122.9 million, or $0.05 per common share. The current quarter included a one-time reduction of $0.07 per common share for the deemed dividend resulting from the previously announced repurchase of $1.4 billion in TARP capital in December. This compared with net income of $100.9 million, or $0.10 per common share, in the 2010 third quarter and a net loss of $369.7 million, or $0.56 per common share, in the year-ago quarter.
www.huntington.com
For full-year 2010, Huntington reported net income of $312.3 million, or $0.19 per common share. The current year included a one-time reduction of $0.08 per common share for the deemed dividend resulting from the repurchase of $1.4 billion in TARP capital. This compared with a net loss of $3.1 billion, or $6.14 per common share, for full year 2009, which included $2.6 billion pre-tax, or $4.89 per common share, of goodwill impairment charges.
"Fourth quarter results capped a good year for Huntington," said Stephen D. Steinour, chairman and chief executive officer. "The hard work and progress we are making in organically growing our core business were clearly evident. Loan growth continued to gain traction and was broad based. Core deposit growth was again strong. This resulted in an increase in lower yield investment securities, which contributed to more of a decline in our net interest margin than we expected three months ago. But, strong earning asset growth resulted in an increase in total net interest income sufficient to overcome the expected decline in deposit service charge income. As a result, we reported another quarter of revenue growth. Credit quality again improved significantly, a trend we anticipate will continue. Importantly, we repaid our TARP capital and ended the quarter with strong regulatory capital and very strong common equity capital ratios."
Total fully-taxable equivalent revenue for the fourth quarter was $683.2 million, up 1% from the prior quarter, driven by a $6.4 million, or 2%, increase in fully-taxable equivalent net interest income. This reflected 15% annualized growth in average earnings assets, including 6% annualized growth in average total loans and leases, and a net interest margin of 3.37%, down eight basis points from the prior quarter. Total average core deposits grew 10% annualized, with noninterest bearing demand deposits increasing at a 25% annualized rate.
Nonperforming assets (NPAs) declined 24% to $0.8 billion at December 31, 2010, from $1.1 billion at the end of the prior quarter. Total criticized commercial loans at quarter end were $3.1 billion, down 15% from $3.6 billion at September 30, 2010. While the period end allowance for credit losses (ACL) as a percentage of total loans and leases declined to 3.39% from 3.67%, the ACL as a percentage of total nonaccrual loans (NALs) increased to 166% from 140%. Net charge-offs were $172.3 million, or an annualized 1.82% of average total loans and leases, down from $184.5 million, or 1.98%, in the 2010 third quarter.
The Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio at December 31, 2010, was 9.25%, up from 7.39% at the end of the prior quarter, with the tangible common equity ratio also showing a significant increase to 7.56% from 6.20%. The regulatory Tier 1 and Total capital ratios were 11.50% and 14.39%, respectively, down from 12.82% and 15.08%, respectively, at the end of September, primarily reflecting the repurchase of $1.4 billion of TARP capital.
"Each of the last two years represented major milestones in positioning Huntington for long-term growth," Steinour continued. "2009 was the year we aggressively addressed our credit issues. We said that represented the high water mark. Our results since then have shown more rapid improvement in credit quality than originally envisioned. 2010 was the year we addressed our capital issues, particularly our low relative level of common equity. And we repurchased our TARP capital. From a quality of capital perspective, we have never felt better. As we enter 2011, we expect earnings will continue to grow. In the near term, and consistent with fourth quarter performance, this will mostly reflect the benefit of lower credit costs. Yet, we are beginning to see positive results from our investments in growing the business. We believe this is going to be a year when Huntington breaks away even more from our peers in both financial performance, as well as in delivering more innovative and customer friendly products and services to our customers."
 
FOURTH QUARTER PERFORMANCE DISCUSSION
EARNINGS PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW COMPARED WITH 2010 THIRD QUARTER
Partially offset by:
Significant Items Influencing Financial Performance Comparisons
From time to time, revenue, expenses, or taxes are impacted by items judged by Management to be outside of ordinary banking activities and/or by items that, while they may be associated with ordinary banking activities, are so unusually large that their outsized impact is believed by Management at that time to be infrequent or short-term in nature. Management believes the disclosure of "Significant Items" in current and prior period results aids analysts/investors in better understanding corporate performance trends.
(See Significant Items under the Basis of Presentation for a full discussion.)
 
Specific significant items impacting 2010 fourth quarter performance included :
(see Table 1 below)
Table 1  Significant Items Influencing Earnings Performance Comparisons
Pre-Tax, Pre-Provision Income Trends
One metric that Management believes is useful in analyzing performance is the level of earnings adjusted to exclude provision expense, securities gains or losses, amortization of intangibles, and certain Significant Items.
(See Pre-Tax, Pre-Provision Income in Basis of Presentation for a full discussion.)
 
Table 2 shows pre-tax, pre-provision income was $260.1 million in the 2010 fourth quarter, down 2% from the prior quarter.
Table 2  Pre-Tax, Pre-Provision Income
(1)
As discussed in the sections that follow, the decline from the 2010 third quarter primarily reflected higher noninterest expense and lower noninterest income, partially offset by higher net interest income.
Net Interest Income, Net Interest Margin, and Average Balance Sheet
2010 Fourth Quarter versus 2010 Third Quarter
Compared with the 2010 third quarter, fully-taxable equivalent net interest income increased $6.4 million, or 2%. This reflected an annualized 15% increase in average earning assets as the fully-taxable equivalent net interest margin declined to 3.37% from 3.45%. The increase in average earning assets reflected a combination of activities including:
The net interest margin declined 8 basis points, reflecting the impact of stronger deposit growth funding investment security purchases at a lower incremental spread.
 
Table 3 details the increase in average total loans and leases.
Table 3  Loans and Leases  4Q10 vs. 3Q10
Average total loans and leases increased $0.6 billion, or 2%, reflecting a $0.5 billion, or 3%, increase in total consumer loans, and a $0.1 billion, or 1%, increase in average total commercial loans.
 
Table 4 details changes within the various deposit categories.
Table 4  Deposits  4Q10 vs. 3Q10
Average total deposits increased $1.1 billion, or 3%, from the prior quarter reflecting:
2010 Fourth Quarter versus 2009 Fourth Quarter
Fully-taxable equivalent net interest income increased $42.4 million, or 11%, from the year-ago quarter. This reflected the favorable impact of the significant increase in the net interest margin to 3.37% from 3.19%. This also reflected the benefit of a $2.4 billion, or 5%, increase in average total earning assets due to a $1.4 billion, or 15%, increase in average total investment securities, and a $0.7 billion, or 2%, increase in average total loans and leases.
 
Table 5 details the $0.7 billion, or 2%, increase in average total loans and leases.
Table 5  Loans and Leases  4Q10 vs. 4Q09
The increase in average total loans and leases reflected:
Partially offset by:
The $1.4 billion, or 15%, increase in average total investment securities reflected the deployment of cash from core deposit growth
.
 
Table 6 details the $1.5 billion, or 4%, increase in average total deposits.
Table 6  Deposits  4Q10 vs. 4Q09
The increase in average total deposits from the year-ago quarter reflected:
Partially offset by:
Provision for Credit Losses
The provision for credit losses in the 2010 fourth quarter was $87.0 million, down $32.2 million, or 27%, from the prior quarter and down $807.0 million, or 90%, from the year-ago quarter. Reflecting the resolution of problem credits for which reserves had been previously established, the current quarter's provision for credit losses was $85.3 million less than total net charge-offs (
see Credit Quality discussion).
Noninterest Income
2010 Fourth Quarter versus 2010 Third Quarter
Noninterest income decreased $2.9 million, or 1%, from the 2010 third quarter.
 
Table 7  Noninterest Income  4Q10 vs. 3Q10
The decrease in total noninterest income reflected:
Partially offset by:
2010 Fourth Quarter versus 2009 Fourth Quarter
Noninterest income increased $19.7 million, or 8%, from the year-ago quarter.
 
Table 8  Noninterest Income  4Q10 vs. 4Q09
The increase in total noninterest income reflected:
Partially offset by:
 
Noninterest Expense
2010 Fourth Quarter versus 2010 Third Quarter
Noninterest expense increased $7.3 million, or 2%, from the 2010 third quarter.
Table 9  Noninterest Expense  4Q10 vs. 3Q10
The increase in noninterest expense reflected:
Partially offset by:
 
2010 Fourth Quarter versus 2009 Fourth Quarter
Noninterest expense increased $112.0 million, or 35%, from the year-ago quarter.
Table 10  Noninterest Expense  4Q10 vs. 4Q09
The increase reflected:
Partially offset by:
 
Income Taxes
The provision for income taxes in the 2010 fourth quarter was $35.0 million. For the full-year 2010, the provision for income taxes was $40.0 million. The effective tax rates for the 2010 fourth quarter and full-year 2010 were 22.2% and 11.3%, respectively. At December 31, 2010, we had a deferred tax asset of $538.3 million. Based on both positive and negative evidence and our level of forecasted future taxable income, there was no impairment of the deferred tax asset at December 31, 2010. The total disallowed deferred tax asset for regulatory capital purposes increased to $161.3 million at December 31, 2010, from $112.9 million at September 30, 2010.
Credit Quality Performance Discussion
Credit quality performance in the 2010 fourth quarter continued to show improvement. Total net charge-offs were down from the third quarter. The composition of the losses also changed, as a significant declining trend in the CRE portfolio continued to develop. The increase in the residential mortgage net charge-offs was partially driven by charge-offs associated with loans sold during the quarter. The slight increase in auto loan and lease net charge-offs losses was well within our expectations given the seasonality impact and is not an indication of any portfolio weakness.
Other key credit quality metrics also showed improvement, including a 24% decline in nonperforming assets (NPAs) and a 15% decline in the level of criticized commercial loans. These declines reflected the positive impact of significant levels of restructures, upgrades, and payment activity. Notably, the level of new additions was more comparable to that in the first half of 2010 than to the elevated third quarter level. The economic environment remains challenging. Yet, reflecting the benefit of our focused credit actions, we continue to expect declines in total NPAs and criticized loans going forward.
We continue to see stable to improving delinquency trends across the entire loan and lease portfolio, with a significant opportunity for further improvement in the residential and home equity portfolios. Automobile loan delinquency rates continued to decline. Given the significant increase in new automobile origination volume, we use a lagged delinquency measure to ensure that the underlying portfolio performance is consistent with our expectations. Based on the lagged analysis and the origination quality, we remain very comfortable with the ongoing performance of our automobile loan portfolio.
This quarter's net charge-offs were primarily related to reserves established in prior periods. Our allowance for credit losses (ACL) declined $85.3 million to $1,291.1 million, or 3.39% of period-end total loans and leases, from $1,376.4 million, or 3.67%, at September 30, 2010. Importantly, our ACL as a percent of period-end NALs increased to 166% from 140%, along with improved coverage ratios associated with NPAs and criticized assets. These improved coverage ratios indicate a strengthening of our reserves relative to troubled assets from the end of the prior quarter.
 
Net Charge-Offs (NCOs)
Table 11  Net Charge-offs
Total net charge-offs for the 2010 fourth quarter were $172.3 million, or an annualized 1.82% of average total loans and leases. This was down $12.3 million from $184.5 million, or an annualized 1.98%, in the 2010 third quarter.
Total C&I net charge-offs for the 2010 fourth quarter were $59.1 million, or an annualized 1.85%, down 5% from $62.2 million, or an annualized 2.01% of related loans, in the 2010 third quarter. The relative stabilization in the second half of 2010 is a positive trend for the portfolio going forward.
Current quarter CRE net charge-offs were $44.9 million, down 30% from $63.7 million in the prior quarter. Annualized net charge-offs in the current quarter were 2.64%, down from 3.60% in the prior quarter. The decline was consistent with the improving asset quality metrics. The level of CRE NALs and criticized loans ended the quarter at their lowest level since 2008, and early stage delinquency continued to improve. These trends give us confidence in our outlook for improved results going forward. The fourth quarter net charge-offs continued to be centered in retail projects, with no significant charge-offs in the multi-family portfolio. The retail property portfolio remains the most susceptible to a continued decline in market conditions. We believe we are adequately reserved to support effective ongoing management of this portfolio segment. While the office portfolio has experienced stress, we remain comfortable with this exposure.
 
Total consumer net charge-offs in the current quarter were $68.3 million, or an annualized 1.50%, up from $58.6 million, or an annualized 1.32%, in the third quarter.
Automobile loan and lease net charge-offs were $7.0 million, or an annualized 0.51% of related average balances, up 26% from $5.6 million, or an annualized 0.43%, in the third quarter. The increase from the prior quarter primarily reflected seasonal factors. We continued our strategy of originating high quality automobile loans. During the fourth quarter, we originated $795 million of loans with an average FICO score of 764 with a continued emphasis on lower loan-to-value ratios. The level and quality of new production in 2010 position us well for continued future performance.
Home equity net charge-offs were $29.2 million, or an annualized 1.51% of related average balances, up $1.3 million from $27.8 million, or an annualized 1.47%, in the 2010 third quarter. We continue to manage the default rate through focused delinquency monitoring as virtually all defaults for home equity loans in a second lien position incur substantial losses given the lack of equity. Our strategies focus on loss mitigation activity via early intervention and restructured terms, as we continue to believe that our more proactive loss mitigation strategies are in the best interest of both the company and our customers. While there has been a clear increase in losses given the market conditions, our performance has remained within our expectations.
Residential mortgage net charge-offs in the current quarter were $26.8 million, or an annualized 2.42% of related loans, up $7.8 million from $19.0 million, or an annualized 1.73%, in the prior quarter. The fourth quarter results were impacted by $16.4 million of charge-offs associated with loans sold during the quarter. The sale represented a continuation of our strategy to seek strategic opportunities to reduce the level of troubled loans in our portfolio. In this case, we were able to close a transaction which reduced NALs, at a loss close to that expected were these loans to go through foreclosure and ultimate sale as OREO properties. In addition, we have avoided much of the foreclosure expense and other resources associated with workout activity. Without the sale, the quarter's results would have been lower than in the third quarter, as the economic environment and significantly reduced equity position continued to impact the industry. We did see continued positive trends in the delinquency mix, and the percent of the portfolio falling into the low score ranges on our updated score process continued to decline. We are very aware of the impact of the government sponsored entities (GSEs) Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, from both a repurchase risk standpoint and the potential for a substantial increase in properties on the market in the coming months. From a market condition perspective, we are appropriately considering the impact of a large increase in the number of properties for sale over the coming months by adjusting our remarketing and sales strategies.
 
Nonaccrual Loans (NALs) and Nonperforming Assets (NPAs)
Table 12  Nonaccrual Loans and Nonperforming Assets
Total nonaccrual loans and leases (NALs) were $777.9 million at December 31, 2010, and represented 2.04% of total loans and leases. This was down $203.8 million, or 21%, from $981.8 million, or 2.62% of total loans and leases, at September 30, 2010.
CRE NALs decreased $115.1 million, or 24%, from September 30, 2010. This primarily reflected problem credit resolution activity and charge-offs. This substantial decline is a direct result of our commitment to the ongoing proactive management of these credits by our Special Assets Department. Also key to this improvement was the lower level of inflows. The level of inflows, or migration, is an important indicator of the future trend for the portfolio.
C&I NALs decreased $51.6 million, or 13%, from the end of prior quarter. This reflected both charge-off activity and problem credit resolutions, including pay-offs, and was associated with loans throughout our footprint with no specific geographic concentration. From an industry perspective, some improvement in the manufacturing-related segment accounted for a significant portion of the decrease.
Nonperforming assets (NPAs), which include NALs, were $844.8 million at December 31, 2010, and represented 2.21% of related assets. This was down $260.1 million, or 24%, from $1,104.9 million, or 2.94%, of related assets at the end of the prior quarter.
 
Table 13  90 Days Past Due and Accruing Restructured Loans
Total accruing loans and leases over 90 days past due, excluding loans guaranteed by the U.S. Government, were $87.7 million at December 31, 2010, down $7.7 million, or 8%, from the end of the prior quarter, but down $58.0 million, or 40%, from the end of the year-ago period. On this same basis, the over 90-day delinquency ratio was 0.23% at December 31, 2010, down from 0.25% at the end of the 2010 third quarter, and down 17 basis points from a year earlier. For total consumer loans, and on this same basis, the over 90-day delinquency ratio was 0.49% at December 31, 2010, down slightly from the end of the prior quarter.
Allowances for Credit Losses (ACL)
We maintain two reserves, both of which are available to absorb inherent credit losses: the allowance for loan and lease losses (ALLL) and the allowance for unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit (AULC). When summed together, these reserves constitute the total ACL.
Table 14  Allowances for Credit Losses (ACL)
 
At December 31, 2010, the ALLL was $1,249.0 million, down $87.3 million, or 7%, from $1,336.4 million at the end of the prior quarter. Expressed as a percent of period-end loans and leases, the ALLL ratio at December 31, 2010, was 3.28%, down from 3.56% at September 30, 2010. The ALLL as a percent of NALs was 161% at December 31, 2010, up from 136% at September 30, 2010.
At December 31, 2010, the AULC was $42.1 million, up $2.1 million, or 5%, from the end of the prior quarter.
On a combined basis, the ACL as a percent of total loans and leases at December 31, 2010, was 3.39%, down from 3.67% at September 30, 2010. This reduction was centered in the CRE portfolio as a result of the reduction in the level of problem credits detailed above. The ACL as a percent of NALs was 166% at December 31, 2010, up from 140% at September 30, 2010, indicating additional strength in the reserve level relative to the level of problem credits.
Capital
Table 15  Capital Ratios
During the fourth quarter we issued $920.0 million of common stock and $300.0 million of subordinated debt. The net proceeds of these issuances, along with existing cash, were used to repurchase all $1.4 billion of the Series B Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock that we issued to the U.S. Department of the Treasury under its Troubled Asset Relief Program's (TARP) Capital Purchase Program.
As previously announced on January 19, 2011, we repurchased the warrant we had issued to the U.S. Department of the Treasury as part of the TARP Capital Purchase Program for $49.1 million. The warrant had entitled the U.S. Department of the Treasury to purchase 23.6 million common shares.
The tangible common equity to asset ratio at December 31, 2010, was 7.56%, up from 6.20% at the end of the prior quarter. The net impact of the common equity issuance of $883.9 million positively impacted the tangible common equity ratio by 168 basis points. This benefit was partially offset by a negative 32 basis point impact related to $169.1 million reduction in other comprehensive income, primarily reflecting the impact of changing interest rates on the market value of investment securities, derivatives, and pension obligations.
 
Our Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio at quarter end was 9.25%, up from 7.39% at the end of the prior quarter.
At December 31, 2010, our regulatory Tier 1 and Total risk-based capital ratios were 11.50% and 14.39%, respectively, down from 12.82% and 15.08%, respectively, at September 30, 2010. The decrease in our Tier 1 and Total risk-based capital ratios from September 30, 2010, primarily reflected the impact of the repurchase of $1.4 billion in TARP capital. On an absolute basis, our Tier 1 and Total risk-based capital ratios at December 31, 2010, exceeded the regulatory "well capitalized" thresholds by $2.4 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively. The "well capitalized" level is the highest regulatory capital designation.
2011 EXPECTATIONS
Borrower and consumer confidence remains a major factor impacting growth opportunities for 2011. We continue to believe that the economy will remain relatively stable throughout the coming year, with the potential for improvement in the latter half. Revenue headwinds as a result of regulatory and legislative actions, combined with higher interest rates as we enter 2011 that we expect will reduce mortgage banking revenue, and continued investments in growing the business, will represent challenges to earnings growth.
Reflecting these factors, pre-tax, pre-provision income levels are expected to remain in line with 2010 second half performance. Nevertheless, net income growth from current levels is anticipated throughout the year. This will primarily reflect ongoing reductions in credit costs. We expect the absolute levels of net charge-offs, NPAs, and criticized loans will continue to decline, resulting in lower levels of provision expense. Given the significant improvements in 2010, coupled with our expectation for continued improvement, our return to more normalized levels of credit costs could occur earlier than previously expected.
The net interest margin is expected to be flat to up slightly from the 2010 fourth quarter level. We anticipate continued benefit from lower deposit pricing. In addition, the absolute growth in loans compared with deposits is anticipated to be more comparable, thus reducing the absolute growth in lower yield investment securities.
The automobile loan portfolio is expected to continue its strong growth, and we anticipate continued growth in C&I loans. CRE loans are expected to continue to decline, but at a slower rate. Home equity and residential mortgages are likely to show only modest growth.
Core deposits are expected to show continued growth. Further, we expect the shift toward lower-cost demand deposit accounts will continue.
Fee income, compared with the 2010 fourth quarter, will be negatively impacted by lower interchange fees and a decline in mortgage banking revenues due to continued weak market conditions. With regard to interchange fees, if enacted as recently outlined, the Federal Reserve's proposed interchange fee structure will significantly lower interchange revenue. Other fee categories are expected to grow, reflecting the impact of our cross-sell initiatives throughout the company, as well as the positive impact from strategic initiatives. Over time, we anticipate more than offsetting revenue challenges with revenue we expect to generate by accelerating customer growth and cross-sell results. Expense levels early in the year should be up modestly from 2010 fourth quarter performance, with increases later in the year due to continued investments to grow the business.
 
Conference Call / Webcast Information
Huntington's senior management will host an earnings conference call on Thursday, January 20, 2011, at 10:00 a.m. (Eastern Time). The call may be accessed via a live Internet webcast at www.huntington-ir.com or through a dial-in telephone number at (800) 267-7495; conference ID 33285653. Slides will be available at www.huntington-ir.com about an hour prior to the call. A replay of the webcast will be archived in the Investor Relations section of Huntington's web site www.huntington.com. A telephone replay will be available two hours after the completion of the call through January 31, 2011 at (800) 642-1687; conference ID 33285653.
Forward-looking Statement
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements, including certain plans, expectations, goals, projections, and statements, which are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those contained or implied by such statements for a variety of factors including: (1) worsening of credit quality performance due to a number of factors such as the underlying value of the collateral could prove less valuable than otherwise assumed and assumed cash flows may be worse than expected; (2) changes in economic conditions; (3) movements in interest rates; (4) competitive pressures on product pricing and services; (5) success, impact, and timing of our business strategies, including market acceptance of any new products or services introduced to implement our Fair Play' banking philosophy; (6) changes in accounting policies and principles and the accuracy of our assumptions and estimates used to prepare our financial statements; (7) extended disruption of vital infrastructure; and (8) the nature, extent, and timing of governmental actions and reforms, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as future regulations which will be adopted by the relevant regulatory agencies, including the newly created Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CAP), to implement the Act's provisions. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described above can be found in Huntington's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and documents subsequently filed by Huntington with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements included in this release are based on information available at the time of the release. Huntington assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Basis of Presentation
Use of Non-GAP Financial Measures
This earnings press release contains GAP financial measures and non-GAAP financial measures where management believes it to be helpful in understanding Huntington's results of operations or financial position. Where non-GAAP financial measures are used, the comparable GAAP financial measure, as well as the reconciliation to the comparable GAAP financial measure, can be found in this earnings release, the Quarterly Financial Review supplement to this release, the 2010 fourth quarter earnings conference call slides, or the Form 8-K related to this release, which can be found on Huntington's website at huntington-ir.com.
Pre-Tax, Pre-Provision Income
One non-GAAP performance metric that Management believes is useful in analyzing underlying performance trends is pre-tax, pre-provision income. This is the level of earnings adjusted to exclude the impact of:
 
Significant Items
From time to time, revenue, expenses, or taxes are impacted by items judged by Management to be outside of ordinary banking activities and/or by items that, while they may be associated with ordinary banking activities, are so unusually large that their outsized impact is believed by Management at that time to be infrequent or short-term in nature. We refer to such items as "Significant Items". Most often, these Significant Items result from factors originating outside the company  e.g., regulatory actions/assessments, windfall gains, changes in accounting principles, one-time tax assessments/refunds, etc. In other cases they may result from Management decisions associated with significant corporate actions out of the ordinary course of business  e.g., merger/restructuring charges, recapitalization actions, goodwill impairment, etc.
Even though certain revenue and expense items are naturally subject to more volatility than others due to changes in market and economic environment conditions, as a general rule volatility alone does not define a Significant Item. For example, changes in the provision for credit losses, gains/losses from investment activities, asset valuation writedowns, etc., reflect ordinary banking activities and are, therefore, typically excluded from consideration as a Significant Item.
Management believes the disclosure of "Significant Items" in current and prior period results aids analysts/investors in better understanding corporate performance and trends so that they can ascertain which of such items, if any, they may wish to include/exclude from their analysis of the company's performance; i.e., within the context of determining how that performance differed from their expectations, as well as how, if at all, to adjust their estimates of future performance accordingly. To this end, Management has adopted a practice of listing "Significant Items" in its external disclosure documents (e.g., earnings press releases, investor presentations, Forms 10-Q and 10-K).
"Significant Items" for any particular period are not intended to be a complete list of items that may materially impact current or future period performance. A number of items could materially impact these periods, including those described in Huntington's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K and other factors described from time to time in Huntington's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Annualized data
Certain returns, yields, performance ratios, or quarterly growth rates are presented on an "annualized" basis. This is done for analytical and decision-making purposes to better discern underlying performance trends when compared to full year or year-over-year amounts. For example, loan and deposit growth rates, as well as net charge-off percentages, are most often expressed in terms of an annual rate like 8%. As such, a 2% growth rate for a quarter would represent an annualized 8% growth rate.
Fully-taxable equivalent interest income and net interest margin
Income from tax-exempt earning assets is increased by an amount equivalent to the taxes that would have been paid if this income had been taxable at statutory rates. This adjustment puts all earning assets, most notably tax-exempt municipal securities and certain lease assets, on a common basis that facilitates comparison of results to results of competitors.
Earnings per share equivalent data
Significant income or expense items may be expressed on a per common share basis. This is done for analytical and decision-making purposes to better discern underlying trends in total corporate earnings per share performance excluding the impact of such items. Investors may also find this information helpful in their evaluation of the company's financial performance against published earnings per share mean estimate amounts, which typically exclude the impact of Significant Items. Earnings per share equivalents are usually calculated by applying a 35% effective tax rate to a pre-tax amount to derive an after-tax amount, which is divided by the average shares outstanding during the respective reporting period. Occasionally, when the item involves special tax treatment, the after-tax amount is disclosed separately, with this then being the amount used to calculate the earnings per share equivalent.
About Huntington
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated is a $54 billion regional bank holding company headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. Through its affiliated companies, Huntington has been providing a full range of financial services for 144 years. Huntington offers checking, loans, savings, insurance and investment services. It has 620 branches and also offers retail and commercial financial services online at huntington.com; through its telephone bank; and through its network of over 1,350 ATMs. Huntington's Auto Finance and Dealer Services group offers automobile loans to consumers and commercial loans to automobile dealers within our six-state banking franchise area, as well as selected New England states.
 
HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED Quarterly Key Statistics
(1)
(Unaudited)
N.R.  Not relevant, as denominator of calculation is a loss in prior period compared with income in current period.
See Notes to the Quarterly Key Statistics and Year-to-Date Key Statistics.
 
HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED Annual Key Statistics
(1)
(Unaudited)

Exhibit 99.2
Notes:
The preparation of financial statement data in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation.
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
Consolidated Balance Sheets
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Loans and Leases Composition
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Deposits Composition
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Consolidated Quarterly Average Balance Sheets
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Consolidated Quarterly Net Interest Margin Analysis
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Selected Quarterly Income Statement Data
(1)
(Unaudited)
 
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Quarterly Mortgage Banking Income
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Quarterly Credit Reserves Analysis
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Quarterly Net Charge-Off Analysis
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Quarterly Nonaccrual Loans and Leases (NALs) and Nonperforming Assets (NPAs)
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Quarterly Accruing Past Due Loans and Leases and Accruing Troubled Debt Restructured Loans
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Quarterly Common Stock Summary, Capital, and Other Data
(Unaudited)
Quarterly common stock summary
Capital data
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Consolidated Annual Average Balance Sheets
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Consolidated Annual Net Interest Margin Analysis
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Selected Annual Income Statement Data
(1)
(Unaudited)
 
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Annual Mortgage Banking Income
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
Annual Credit Reserves Analysis
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Annual Net Charge-Off Analysis
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Annual Nonaccrual Loans and Leases (NALs) and Nonperforming Assets (NPAs)
(Unaudited)
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Annual Accruing Past Due Loans and Leases and Accruing Troubled Debt Restructured Loans
(Unaudited)


