FILE:HBAN/HBAN-8K-20120614112522.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On June 14, 2012, Huntington Bancshares Incorporated announced that Peter J. Kight has been appointed to serve as a director of the company. The board of directors elected Mr. Kight on June 8, 2012. The board of directors has not yet determined the committees of the board on which Mr. Kight will be appointed to serve.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On June 14, 2012, Huntington issued a press release announcing the appointment of Peter J. Kight as a director. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits The following exhibits are filed herewith: Exhibit No. -- Description 99.1 -- News Release of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated dated June 14, 2012.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99.1
Huntington
NEWS
June 14, 2012
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Todd Beekman                                                                       Maureen Brown (614) 480-3878                                                                       (614) 480-5512                                            
Investors Contact:                                                                Media Contact:
todd.beekman@huntington.com
maureen.brown@huntington.com
The Board of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (NASDAQ: HBAN; ) has unanimously elected Peter J. (Pete) Kight, founder and former chairman and chief executive officer of groundbreaking financial electronic services and product provider CheckFree, to its board. A native of Columbus, Kight is one of the world's most respected leaders in financial services technology, most notably in the fields of electronic funds transfer, online banking and electronic billing and payment. Kight is currently co-chairman and managing partner of The Comvest Group.
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
www.huntington.com
"Pete is one of the most successful entrepreneurs and influential leaders in the electronic consumer payments industry. He is also a pioneer and a visionary as well as an extraordinarily effective executive," said Stephen D. Steinour, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Huntington. "Huntington will benefit enormously from his insights and advice as we continue to explore ways to leverage technology to make banking more efficient and convenient for our customers. As a Columbus native, Pete shares Huntington's vision for the Midwest to help our local communities grow and prosper."
Kight built CheckFree from an electronic consumer bill pay pioneer to encompass multiple types of payments and processing infrastructures. CheckFree's growth toward dominance of the electronic payment industry under Kight's leadership included leveraging business intelligence to detect and prevent fraud, electronic billing, reconciliation and operational risk management capabilities. Kight, who continued to serve through March, 2010 as vice chairman of FiServ following CheckFree's acquisition, holds more than a dozen patents for electronic banking and payment systems.
"I am delighted to join Huntington, which has been at the forefront of innovative banking and community programs," said Kight. "I look forward to being part of an active board that is committed to increasing shareholder value and its communities as we grow the bank."
Kight is an Ellis Island Medal of Honor recipient and was the first recipient of the Lifetime Achievement Award from , a SourceMedia publication.
Bank Technology News
About Huntington
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated is a $56 billion regional bank holding company headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. The Huntington National Bank, founded in 1866, provides full-service commercial, small business, and consumer banking services; mortgage banking services; treasury management and foreign exchange services; equipment leasing; wealth and investment management services; trust services; brokerage services; customized insurance brokerage and service programs; and other financial products and services.  The principal markets for these services are Huntington's six-state banking franchise: Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Indiana, West Virginia, and Kentucky.  The primary distribution channels include a banking network of over 660 traditional branches and convenience branches located in grocery stores and retirement centers, and through an array of alternative distribution channels including internet and mobile banking, telephone banking, and over 1,300 ATMs.  Through automotive dealership relationships within its six-state banking franchise area and selected other Midwest and New  England states, Huntington also provides commercial banking services to the automotive dealers and retail automobile financing for dealer customers.


