FILE:HBAN/HBAN-8K-20120425095140.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On April 25, 2012, Huntington Bancshares Incorporated ("Huntington") issued a press release announcing the redemption of $80 million of trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities will be redeemed at the redemption price (as a percentage of the liquidation amount) plus accrued and unpaid distributions to the redemption date. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is being furnished herewith: Exhibit 99.1 - News Release of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, dated April 25, 2012.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Huntington
NEWS
April 25, 2012
 
 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (NASDAQ: HBAN; ) announced it has submitted redemption notices to the trustee for each trust listed below, which will result in the redemption of all of the trust preferred securities identified below on the date specified. The trust preferred securities will be redeemed at the redemption price (as a percentage of the liquidation amount) plus accrued and unpaid distributions to the redemption date.
COLUMBUS, Ohio
www.huntington.com
These redemptions are consistent with the capital plan the Company submitted to the Federal Reserve, will be funded from the Company's existing cash and are expected to result in a modest gain.
About Huntington
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated is a $56 billion regional bank holding company headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. The Huntington National Bank, founded in 1866, provides full-service commercial, small business, and consumer banking services; mortgage banking services; treasury management and foreign exchange services; equipment leasing; wealth and investment management services; trust services; brokerage services; customized insurance brokerage and service programs; and other financial products and services. The principal markets for these services are Huntington's six-state banking franchise: Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Indiana, West Virginia, and Kentucky. The primary distribution channels include a banking network of over 660 traditional branches and convenience branches located in grocery stores and retirement centers, and through an array of alternative distribution channels including internet and mobile banking, telephone banking, and over 1,300 ATMs. Through automotive dealership relationships within its six-state banking franchise area and selected other Midwest and New England states, Huntington also provides commercial banking services to the automotive dealers and retail automobile financing for dealer customers.


