ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Cautionary Statement Pursuant to Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 This Annual Report on Form 10 K contains forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). From time to time, we may also provide oral or written forward looking statements in other materials we release to the public. Such forward looking statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward looking statements, and include, but are not limited to, statements under the headings "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Outlook for 2010" relating to overall volume trends, consumer preferences, pricing trends, industry forces, cost reduction strategies, anticipated results, anticipated synergies, expectations for funding future capital expenditures and operations, debt service capabilities, shipment levels and profitability, market share and the sufficiency of capital resources. In addition, statements that we make in this report that are not statements of historical fact may also be forward looking statements. Words such as "expects," "goals," "plans," "believes," "continues," "may," "anticipate," "seek," "estimate," "outlook," "trends," "future benefits," "strategies," and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements. Forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to be materially different from those indicated (both favorably and unfavorably). These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, changes in consumer preferences and product trends, price discounting by major competitors, failure to realize the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from MillerCoors, failure to realize anticipated results from synergy initiatives, and increases in costs generally, as well as the risks and uncertainties described under the heading "Risk Factors" and elsewhere throughout this report. Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such forward looking statements. Forward looking statements speak only as of the date when made and we undertake no obligation to update any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Executive Summary 2009 Key Financial Highlights: 2009 was a year of important strategic changes that made our company stronger and more competitive. Our brand growth strategies and cost reduction efforts continue to strengthen our competitive capabilities and financial performance. For the full year, we continued to make great strides in our brands, competitive position, cost reductions and cash generation, but we gave back a lot to weak industry volume, unfavorable currency movements, and commodity inflation, particularly in the U.S. and U.K. In Canada, our strengthened leadership team is addressing competitive challenges, primarily through innovations in brands, packaging and promotions that are strengthening our portfolio. We introduced the first new Molson trademark brand in 5 years, Molson "M", along with Molson Canadian 67 and Rickards Dark in the fourth quarter and are encouraged by their early results. We also strengthened our beer focus by selling our interest in the Montr&eacute;al Canadiens hockey club and agreeing to buy Granville Island Brewing Company. The Granville Island acquisition further increases our presence in the highly profitable above premium segment. 28 Table of Contents MillerCoors exceeded its synergy targets and announced an additional $200 million of cost reductions beyond the $500 million announced upon its formation to be delivered over the next three years. The U.S. team also invested heavily in building brands and sales capabilities, in addition to continuing the integration of the Miller and Coors businesses. Despite the toughest U.S. beer market in decades, MillerCoors grew income from continuing operations by 57.3% for the year. We benefit from 42% of these results. In the U.K., we drove value from Carlings brand strength; delivered solid Coors Light growth; purchased a controlling interest in the Cobra brand; grew Magners draught cider; and completed the ramp up of our contract brewing arrangement. We leveraged these strategic initiatives to balance price and volume priorities. Additionally, we closed our defined benefit pension plan to all future accrual of retirement benefits, which will reduce the growth of these liabilities in the future. We enhanced the capabilities of our MCI team and continued to invest in developing markets in Asia, Continental Europe and Latin America. Globally, we grew income from continuing operations by 86.6% driven by lower effective tax rate and despite a decline of 3% in our worldwide volume, exceeded all of our cost savings goals and announced our next generation of cost reductions, and more than doubled operating cash flows to $824 million. The following table highlights summarized components of our condensed consolidated summary of operations for the years ended December 26, 2009, December 28, 2008, and December 30, 2007. For the Years Ended December 26, 2009 % change December 28, 2008(1) % change December 30, 2007(1) (In millions, except percentages and per share data) Volume in hectoliters 18.779 (46.0 )% 34.800 (29.0 )% 49.046 Net sales $ 3,032.4 (36.5 )% $ 4,774.3 (22.9 )% $ 6,190.6 Income from continuing operations attributable to MCBC $ 729.4 86.6 % $ 390.8 (23.3 )% $ 509.7 Diluted income per share from continuing operations $ 3.92 85.8 % $ 2.11 (24.9 )% $ 2.81 (1)Due to a new accounting pronouncement related to convertible debt, income from continuing operations and per share figures have been adjusted from previously reported amounts. Refer to Part II Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 2 "NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS" under the sub heading "Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)" (2)Volume and net sales for the years ended December 30, 2007, December 28, 2008 and December 26, 2009 include a full year of U.S. segment results, six months of U.S. segment results and no U.S. segment results, respectively. 29 Table of Contents The following table highlights summarized components of our sales volume for the years ended December 26, 2009, December 28, 2008, and December 30, 2007 (actual and pro forma): For the years ended December 26, 2009 December 28, 2008 December 30, 2007 December 30, 2007 Actual Actual Pro forma(1) Actual Volume in hectoliters (in millions): Financial volume 18.779 34.800 34.545 49.046 Royalty volume 0.301 0.300 0.250 0.250 Owned volume 19.080 35.100 34.795 49.296 Proportionate share of equity investment sales to retail(2) 30.888 16.397 16.273 Total worldwide beer volume 49.968 51.497 51.068 49.296 (1)Reflects the exclusion of the U.S. segment volume reported for the twenty six weeks ended December 31, 2007. (2)Reflects the addition of MCBCs proportionate share of MillerCoors and Modelo Molson sales to retail for the periods presented, adjusted for comparable trading days, including on a pro forma basis for the twenty six weeks ended December 31, 2007. Worldwide beer volume is composed of our financial volume, royalty volume and proportionate share of equity investment sales to retail. Financial volume represents owned beer brands sold to unrelated external customers within our geographical markets. Royalty beer volume consists of product produced and sold by third parties under various license and contract brewing agreements. Equity investment sales to retail brands volume represents the companys ownership percentage share of volume in its subsidiaries accounted for under the equity method, including MillerCoors and Modelo Molson Imports, L.P. Synergies and other cost savings initiatives For the full year 2009, Molson Coors achieved $92 million of cost savings as part of its Resources for Growth ("RFG") cost savings program. Over the past three years, the Company has delivered $270 million in RFG cost savings, exceeding the Companys commitment of $250 million for the three year program. When MillerCoors began operations on July 1, 2008, they expected the business to achieve $225 million of the announced $500 million in synergies by the end of 2009. MillerCoors exceeded these expectations, achieving $273 million in synergies by the end of 2009, $245 million of these in 2009. Additionally, MillerCoors, in 2009, achieved $26 million in cost reductions of the $200 million in incremental, second generation cost savings that were announced in 2009. Molson Coors benefits from 42% of MillerCoors cost reductions. Components of our Statement of Operations Net sales Our net sales represent almost exclusively the sale of beer and other malt beverages, the vast majority of which are brands that we own and brew ourselves. We import or brew and sell certain non owned partner brands under licensing and related arrangements. We also sell certain "factored" brands, as a distributor, to on premise customers in the United Kingdom. Cost of goods sold Our cost of goods sold includes costs we incur to make and ship beer. These costs include brewing materials, such as barley, hops, and various grains. Packaging materials, including 30 Table of Contents glass bottles, aluminum and steel cans, cardboard and paperboard are also included in our cost of goods sold. Our cost of goods sold also include both direct and indirect labor, freight costs, utilities, maintenance costs, depreciation, and other manufacturing overheads, as well as the cost to purchaser of "factored" brands from suppliers. Marketing, general and administrative These costs include media advertising (television, radio, print), tactical advertising (signs, banners, point of sale materials) and promotion costs on both local and national levels within our operating segments. These costs also include our marketing and sales organizations, including labor and other overheads. This classification also include general and administrative costs for functions such as finance, legal, human resources and information technology, which consist primarily of labor and outside services. This line item also includes amortization costs associated with intangible assets, as well as certain depreciation costs related to non production equipment. Special Items These are infrequent and or unusual items which affect our statement of operations, and are discussed in each segments Results of Operations discussion. Equity income in MillerCoors This item represents our proportionate share for the period of the undistributed net income (loss) of our investment in MillerCoors accounted for under the equity method. Such amount typically reflects adjustments similar to those made in preparing consolidated statements, including adjustments to eliminate intercompany gains and losses, and to amortize, if appropriate, any difference between cost and underlying equity in net assets upon the formation of MillerCoors. Interest expense, net Interest costs associated with borrowings to finance our operations are classified here. Interest income in the U.K. segment is associated with trade loans receivable from customers. Debt extinguishment costs The costs are associated with payments to settle the notes at fair value given interest rates at the time of extinguishment, incentive payments to note holders for early tendering of the notes, and a write off of the proportionate amount of unamortized discount and issuance fees associated with the extinguished debt. Other income (expense) This classification includes primarily gains and losses associated with activities not directly related to brewing and selling beer. For instance, gains or losses on sales of non operating assets, our share of income or loss associated with our ownership in the Montr&eacute;al Canadiens hockey club (through sale on October 19, 2009), and certain foreign exchange gains and losses are classified here. Discussions of statement of operations line items such as noncontrolling interests and discontinued operations are discussed in detail elsewhere in MD&A and in the Notes to Part II 
 
