FILE:AKAM/AKAM-8K-20040323175055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
 
 
Item 5.      Other Events.
     On March 23, 2004, Akamai Technologies, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release in which the Company announced that Michael Ruffolo had resigned as its Chief Operating Officer and was leaving the Company. The full text of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 7.      Exhibits
99.1      Press release dated March 23, 2004 issued by Akamai Technologies, Inc.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
99.1      Press release dated March 23, 2004 issued by Akamai Technologies, Inc.

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:
Akamai Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ: AKAM), the global leader in distributed computing solutions and services, today announced that Michael A. Ruffolo, the company's Chief Operating Officer, will be leaving Akamai, effective April 9th. No replacement will be named, and members of Akamai's senior management team, including George H. Conrades, Chairman and CEO, Paul Sagan, President, and Robert Hughes, Vice President of Global Sales and Services, will assume Ruffolo's responsibilities.
CAMBRIDGE, MA  March 23, 2004 
In addition to remaining very active on technology company boards, Ruffolo will focus on investing in early stage companies and provide consulting for companies that need turnaround and restructuring expertise.
"While we are sorry to see Mike go, we are deeply grateful for his strong leadership and operational skills during a very critical business transformation at Akamai," Conrades said. "Akamai is well-positioned for success and we appreciate Mike's many contributions. We wish him well in his new endeavors and thank him for helping establish Akamai as a market-driven, technology leader."
"Akamai is a strong company getting stronger every day," Ruffolo said. "I am proud of our tremendous progress over the past three years and leave confident about the company's future prospects."
About Akamai
Akamai is the global leader in distributed computing solutions and services, making the Internet predictable, scalable, and secure for conducting profitable e-business. The Akamai on demand platform enables customers to easily extend their Web operations  with full control  anywhere, anytime, without the cost of building out infrastructure. Headquartered in Cambridge, Massachusetts, Akamai serves hundreds of today's most successful enterprises and government agencies around the globe. Akamai is . For more information, visit www.akamai.com.
The Business Internet


