FILE:AKAM/AKAM-8K-20040202171107.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
Item 5. Other Events
     On January 29, 2004, Akamai Technologies, Inc. (the "Company") entered into an amendment with EquiServe Trust Company, N.A. ("Amendment No. 1") to the Rights Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002 (the "Rights Agreement"), between the Company and EquiServe Trust Company, N.A., as Rights Agent, whereby the Company amended the Rights Agreement to provide (i) that each Right (as defined in the Rights Agreement) would entitle the registered holder to purchase from the Company one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, $.01 par value per share, at a price of $65.00 in cash, subject to adjustment, (ii) that in the event the transfer agency relationship in effect between the Company and the Rights Agent terminates pursuant to the Company's termination of such relationship, the Rights Agent will be deemed to resign automatically on the effective date of such termination; and any required notice will be sent by the Company, (iii) the address of the Company is updated for notices under the Rights Agreement, (iv) any supplement or amendment that the Rights Agent is required to sign shall be effective upon execution by the Company (whether or not then executed by the Rights Agent or the certificate referred to in the immediately preceding sentence has been delivered) and (v) a force majeure provision.
     Amendment No. 1 is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing description of Amendment No. 1 does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such Exhibit.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 4.1
     THIS AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO RIGHTS AGREEMENT is entered into as of January 29, 2004 by and between Akamai Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company") and EquiServe Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association, as Rights Agent (the "Rights Agent").
     WHEREAS, the Company and the Rights Agent are parties to that certain Rights Agreement dated September 10, 2002 (the "Rights Agreement");
     WHEREAS, the Rights (as defined in the WHEREAS clause at the beginning of the Rights Agreement) are still redeemable; and
     WHEREAS, the Company has directed the Rights Agent to enter into this Amendment No. 1 pursuant to Section 27 of the Rights Agreement;
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual agreements set forth herein, the parties agree as follows:
     1. Section 7(b) of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended by deleting such section in its entirety and substituting therefor the following:
     2. Section 21 of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following sentence immediately after the first sentence thereof:
     3. Section 26 of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the first sentence thereof in its entirety and substituting therefor the following:
 
     4. Section 27 of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended by deleting such section in in its entirety and substituting therefor the following:
     5. The Rights Agreement is hereby amended to insert the following section in its entirety:
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have duly executed this Amendment No. 1 to Rights Agreement, intending that it be executed under seal, as of the date first written above.


