FILE:AKAM/AKAM-8K-20051103170027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     On November 3, 2005, Akamai Technologies, Inc. (the "Company") completed the public offering of 12,000,000 shares of its common stock. Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. served as the underwriter of the offering. On November 3, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing the completion of the offering. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Akamai Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ: AKAM), today announced it has completed the previously-announced public offering of 12,000,000 shares of its common stock.
CAMBRIDGE, MA  November 3, 2005
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. acted as the underwriter for the offering.
A copy of the final prospectus relating to these securities may be obtained from Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. (60 Wall Street, New York, New York, 10005).
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
Akamai is the leading global service provider for accelerating content and business processes online. More than 1,800 organizations have formed trusted relationships with Akamai, improving their revenue and reducing costs by maximizing the performance of their online businesses. Leveraging the Akamai EdgePlatform, these organizations gain business advantage today, and have the foundation for the emerging Web solutions of tomorrow. Akamai is For more information, visit .
About Akamai
"The Trusted Choice for Online Business."
www.akamai.com


