FILE:AKAM/AKAM-8K-20050726160159.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On July 26, 2005, Akamai Technologies, Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2005. The full text of the press release issued in connection with the announcement is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     The information in this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1) shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits
          The following exhibit relating to Item 2.02 shall be deemed to be furnished, and not filed:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
- - Akamai Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ: AKAM), the leading global service provider for accelerating content and business processes online, today reported financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2005.
CAMBRIDGE, Mass.
July 26, 2005
Revenue for the second quarter 2005 was $64.6 million, an 8 percent increase over first quarter 2005 revenue of $60.1 million, and a 27 percent increase over second quarter 2004 revenue of $50.8 million.
Akamai's second quarter consolidated financial results include 20 days of activity from Speedera Networks, Inc. following the closing of Akamai's acquisition of Speedera on June 10. Speedera contributed $2.5 million of revenue during the quarter.
th
Net income in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP, increased in the second quarter of 2005 to $15.9 million, or $0.11 per diluted share, a 13 percent increase over first quarter 2005 GAAP net income of $14.1 million, or $0.10 per diluted share, and a significant improvement over 2004 second quarter earnings per diluted share of $0.05 per share.
"Excellent performance across our business in the second quarter helped to drive our record top-line results and profitability," said Paul Sagan, president and CEO of Akamai. "In addition, we already are seeing benefits from the Speedera acquisition, and expect further improvements as we work to expand our client base and service offerings."
 
The Company generated normalized net income* of $17.1 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2005. (*See Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for definitions.)
Adjusted EBITDA* for the second quarter of 2005 was $22.7 million, up 11 percent compared to $20.4 million in the prior quarter, and up 28 percent compared to $17.7 million in the second quarter of 2004. Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue was 35 percent, up from 34 percent in the prior quarter, and consistent with second quarter 2004. (*See Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for definitions.)
Cash from operations was $14.7 million in the second quarter, including costs associated with the acquisition, as compared to first quarter 2005 cash from operations of $18.7 million. On a year-to-date basis, cash from operations was $33.4 million, as compared to $21.1 million in the first six months of 2004.
At June 30, 2005, the Company had approximately 138.8 million shares of common stock outstanding, and had approximately $130.7 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, including $4.5 million in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities resulting from the Speedera acquisition.
Excluding any customers that were acquired from Speedera, Akamai added 71 net new customers under long-term services contracts during the second quarter 2005. The Speedera acquisition resulted in an additional 305 recurring revenue customers, bringing Akamai's total number of customers under long-term services contracts at the end of the second quarter to 1,736.
Customers
"We are benefiting from the increased adoption of our platform by leading enterprises and government agencies that need to make mission-critical applications predictable, scalable and secure," continued Sagan. "We believe that, in the near term, growth will continue in such markets as online commerce, electronic software and media delivery, manufacturing, travel and hospitality, news and information portals, and the public sector."
Sales through resellers and sales outside the United States accounted for 25 percent and 21 percent, respectively, of revenue for the second quarter of 2005.
Akamai will host a conference call today at 4:30 p.m. ET that can be accessed through 1-888-689-4521 (or 1-706-645-9202 for international calls). A live Webcast of the call may be accessed at in the Investor section. In addition, a replay of the call will be available for one week following the conference through the Akamai Website or by calling 1-800-642-1687 (or 1-706-645-9291 for international calls) and using conference ID No. 7069997.
Quarterly Conference Call
www.akamai.com
Akamai is the leading global service provider for accelerating content and business processes online. More than 1,700 organizations have formed trusted relationships with Akamai, improving their revenue and reducing costs by maximizing the performance of their online businesses. Leveraging the Akamai EdgePlatform, these organizations gain business advantage today, and
About Akamai
 
have the foundation for the emerging Web solutions of tomorrow. Akamai is For more information, visit .
"The Trusted Choice for Online Business."
www.akamai.com
Financial Statements
 
* Includes depreciation (see supplemental tables for figures)
 
* Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In addition to providing financial measurements based on generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP), Akamai has historically provided additional financial metrics that are not prepared in accordance with GAAP (non-GAAP). Recent legislative and regulatory changes discourage the use of and emphasis on non-GAAP financial metrics and require companies to explain why non-GAAP financial metrics are relevant to management and investors.
Akamai defines "Adjusted EBITDA" as net income, before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of tangible and intangible assets, equity-related compensation, certain gains and losses on equity investments, foreign exchange gains and losses, and loss on early extinguishment of debt.
 
Adjusted EBITDA eliminates items that are either not part of the Company's core operations, such as investment gains and losses, foreign exchange gains and losses, early debt extinguishment and net interest expense, or do not require a cash outlay, such as equity-related compensation and impairment of intangible assets. Adjusted EBITDA also excludes depreciation and amortization expense, which is based on the Company's estimate of the useful life of tangible and intangible assets. These estimates could vary from actual performance of the asset, are based on historic cost incurred to build out the Company's deployed network, and may not be indicative of current or future capital expenditures. Because Adjusted EBITDA eliminates these items, Akamai considers this financial measure to be an important indicator of the Company's operational strength and performance of its business and a good measure of the Company's historical operating trend.
Akamai defines "Adjusted EBITDA margin" as a percentage of adjusted EBITDA over revenue. Akamai considers Adjusted EBITDA margin to be an indicator of the Company's operating trend and performance of its business in relation to its revenue growth.
Akamai defines "capital expenditures" or "capex" as purchases of property and equipment and capitalization of internal-use software development costs. Capital expenditures or capex are disclosed in Akamai's condensed consolidated statement of cash flows in the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Akamai defines "normalized net income" as net income before amortization of intangible assets, equity-related compensation, certain gains and losses on equity investments, and loss on early extinguishment of debt. Akamai considers normalized net income to be another important indicator of the overall performance of the Company because it eliminates the effects of events that are either not part of the Company's core operations or are non-cash.
Adjusted EBITDA and normalized net income should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, the Company's operating income and net income, as well as other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP.
In accordance with the requirements of Regulation G issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company is presenting the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and reconciling the non-GAAP financial metrics to the comparable GAAP measures.
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
The release contains information about future expectations, plans and prospects of Akamai's management that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements concerning the expected growth and development of our business and our expectations concerning the acquisition of Speedera. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including, but not limited to, unexpected increases in Akamai's use of funds, loss of significant customers, failure to increase our revenue and keep our expenses consistent with revenues, failure to realize our expectations with respect to the acquisition of Speedera, the effects of any attempts to intentionally disrupt our services or network by unauthorized users or others, failure to have available sufficient transmission capacity, a failure of Akamai's services or network infrastructure, failure to maintain the prices we charge for our services, inability to service and repay our outstanding debt and other factors that are discussed in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and other documents periodically filed with the SEC.
Akamai Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
In addition, the statements in this press release represent Akamai's expectations and beliefs as of the date of this press release. Akamai anticipates that subsequent events and developments may cause these expectations and beliefs to change. However, while Akamai may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, it specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing Akamai's expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to the date of this press release.


