FILE:AKAM/AKAM-8K-20061227170626.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
EXPLANATORY NOTE
On June 16, 2005, Akamai Technologies, Inc. ("Akamai or the "Registrant") filed a Current Report on Form 8-K relating to its acquisition of Speedera Networks Inc. ("Speedera") that excluded certain financial statements that were not available at the time of filing. On August 26, 2005, Akamai amended the original Current Report on Form 8-K (the "Form 8-K/A") to include required financial statements and pro forma financial information in connection with the Speedera acquisition. By this amendment, Akamai is filing supplemental pro forma financial information in connection with the Speedera acquisition that includes an unaudited combined condensed pro forma statement of operations for the full year ended December 1, 2005, prepared as if the acquisition of Speedera had occurred on January 1, 2005.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.6 and incorporated by reference herein is unaudited pro forma combined condensed consolidated financial information for Akamai and Speedera for the year ended December 31, 2005.
(c) Exhibits
 
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
EXHIBIT 99.6
     On June 10, 2005, Akamai Technologies, Inc. (the "Company" or "Akamai") acquired privately-held Speedera Networks, Inc. ("Speedera"). The Company acquired all of the outstanding common and preferred stock, including vested and unvested stock options, of Speedera in exchange for approximately 10.6 million shares of Akamai common stock and 1.7 million Akamai stock options. The aggregate purchase price, net of cash received, was approximately $142.2 million, which consisted of $121.5 million in shares of common stock, $18.2 million in fair value of the Company's stock options and transaction costs of $2.5 million, which primarily consisted of fees for financial advisory and legal services.
     The unaudited combined condensed pro forma statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005, was prepared as if the acquisition of Speedera had occurred on January 1, 2005.
     The unaudited pro forma adjustments are based upon available information and assumptions that Akamai believes are reasonable. The unaudited pro forma combined condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto should be read in conjunction with Akamai's historical consolidated financial statements as previously filed on Akamai's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") on March 16, 2006. In addition, this unaudited combined condensed pro forma information should be read in conjunction with the historical condensed consolidated financial statements of Speedera included within this Amendment to Current Report on Form 8-K/A. The historical income statement of Speedera for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 represents the results of operation from January 1, 2005 to June 10, 2005. Activity associated with Speedera subsequent to June 10, 2005 is included as part of Akamai's results of operations.
     These unaudited combined condensed pro forma financial statements are prepared for informational purposes only and are not necessarily indicative of future results or of actual results that would have been achieved had the acquisition of Speedera been consummated as of January 1, 2005. The pro forma financial statements do not give effect to any cost savings or incremental costs that may result from the integration of Akamai and Speedera.
 
 
Note 1  Basis of Presentation
     The unaudited pro forma combined condensed statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 gives effect to the acquisition of Speedera by Akamai as if the acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2005. The historic income statement of Speedera for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 represents the results of operation from January 1, 2005 to June 10, 2005.
     The unaudited combined condensed pro forma financial information has been prepared on the same basis as Akamai's audited financial statements. The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and, accordingly, the respective assets acquired and liabilities assumed have been recorded at their fair value and consolidated into the net assets of Akamai.
Note 2  Pro Forma Adjustments
     The pro forma adjustments have not been adjusted to eliminate $5.0 million of transaction costs incurred by Speedera which is directly attributable to the business combination. Adjustments have been made to the unaudited pro forma combined financial information to reflect the following:
 
Note 3  Net Income per Share
     Pro forma basic net income per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the applicable quarter and assumes that common shares for the business combination were issued at the beginning of the period presented. Pro forma diluted net income per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year, assuming that common shares for the business combination were issued at the beginning of the period presented, plus the dilutive effect of potential common stock. Potential common stock consists of stock options, deferred stock units, unvested restricted common stock and convertible notes.
     The following table sets forth the components used in the computation of pro forma basic and diluted net income per common share (in thousands, except per share data):


