FILE:AKAM/AKAM-8K-20061020161523.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Item
5.02      Departure of Directors of Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
          (b)      On October 18, 2006, C. Kim Goodwin notified Akamai Technologies, Inc. ("Akamai" or the "Company") that she is voluntarily resigning from the Board of Directors effective as of November 15, 2006. Ms. Goodwin has been a director of Akamai since 2004 and was recently named Managing Director and Head of Equities for Credit Suisse's Asset Management business, based in Europe.
          (d)      On October 18, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company voted to increase the size of the Board of Directors to 11 members and elected Geoffrey A. Moore as a director to fill the newly-created vacancy. Mr. Moore was designated as a Class I member of the Board of Directors and was elected to serve until the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders or his successor is duly appointed and qualified. Mr. Moore, a business strategy consultant and a Managing Director at TCG Advisors, was recommended to the Board of Directors by Akamai's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
          There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Moore and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Moore was elected as a director. Mr. Moore has not yet been appointed to any Board committees. Akamai's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee has recommended to the Board of Directors that Mr. Moore be appointed to the Audit Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. There are no transactions in which Mr. Moore has an interest requiring disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
 
Item
9.01      Financial Statements and Exhibits
          A copy of the press release issued by the Company announcing Mr. Moore's election and Ms. Goodwin's resignation is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Table of Contents
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Akamai Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ: AKAM), the leading global service provider for accelerating content and business processes online, today announced the election to its Board of Directors of Geoffrey A. Moore, the well-known business strategy consultant, best-selling author, and a Managing Director at TCG Advisors.
CAMBRIDGE, MA  October 18, 2006 
Moore has made the understanding and utilization of "disruptive technologies" the core of his life's work. His books, and are best sellers and required reading at leading business schools. His most recent book, was published in January of 2006.
Crossing the Chasm, Inside the Tornado, The Gorilla Game
Living on the Fault Line
Dealing with Darwin: How Great Companies Innovate at Every Phase of Their Evolution,
"It is an honor to welcome Geoffrey to our Board of Directors," said Paul Sagan, president and CEO of Akamai. "Geoffrey's vast expertise in the dynamics of developing and marketing high-tech products will be an important asset to Akamai as we seek to achieve our goal of providing the best possible services to enable our customers to grow their online businesses."
"Akamai is one of the best examples of a business that has successfully taken its core offering across the chasm,' turning early adopters into widespread supporters of its unique technology," said Moore. "Akamai has been achieving market successes as the leader in the tornado' market of digital content distribution and application acceleration services. I am looking forward to helping the company capitalize even further on this large-scale opportunity."
Moore divides his time between consulting on business transformation challenges in his practice at TCG Advisors, where he advises established enterprises on strategy and innovation, and his role as venture partner at Mohr Davidow Ventures, where he works with entrepreneurial management teams to help them bring "disruptive innovations" to market. He provides marketing strategy and organizational services to many leading high technology companies. Prior to TCG Advisors and the founding of The Chasm Group, Moore was a principal and partner at Regis McKenna, Inc., a leading high-tech marketing and communications company. He holds a bachelors degree from Stanford University and a Ph.D. from the University of Washington.
 
Akamai also announced that C. Kim Goodwin is resigning from its Board of Directors effective as of November 15, 2006 as a result of her appointment to a senior position in Credit Suisse's Asset Management business, based in Europe. She joined Akamai's Board in February 2004. In her new role at Credit Suisse, Goodwin will be responsible for the management of all Credit Suisse equity products in the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, as well as all multi-country equity products.
"I want to thank Kim for her tremendous contributions to Akamai," Sagan said. "She has been instrumental in providing insightful strategic guidance that contributed to Akamai's success over the past several years. We will miss her, and we wish her great success with her new endeavor."
"I thoroughly enjoyed my experience on the Akamai Board, and am leaving only because my new position in Europe precludes being able to continue to fully serve the interests of Akamai shareholders," Goodwin said. "I have complete confidence in the Company's management and strategy, and I wish them well in the future."
Akamai is the leading global service provider for accelerating content and business processes online. Thousands of organizations have formed trusted relationships with Akamai, improving their revenue and reducing costs by maximizing the performance of their online businesses. Leveraging the Akamai EdgePlatform, these organizations gain business advantage today, and have the foundation for the emerging Web solutions of tomorrow. Akamai is For more information, visit .
About Akamai
"The Trusted Choice for Online Business."
www.akamai.com


