FILE:AKAM/AKAM-8K-20071012163111.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
(d) On October 9, 2007, the Board of Directors of Akamai Technologies, Inc. (the "Company") elected Jill A. Greenthal as a director to fill a vacancy on its Board of Directors. Ms. Greenthal was designated as a Class I member of the Board of Directors and was elected to serve until the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders or her successor is duly appointed and qualified. Ms. Greenthal is a Senior Advisor in private equity at The Blackstone Group, a provider of financial advisory services. Ms. Greenthal was recommended to the Board of Directors by the Company's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee in accordance with the provisions of its charter.
There are no arrangements or understandings between Ms. Greenthal and any other person pursuant to which Ms. Greenthal was elected as a director. Ms. Greenthal has been appointed to serve on the Audit Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors. There are no transactions in which Ms. Greenthal has an interest requiring disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
In accordance with the Company's Director Compensation Plan, Ms. Greenthal was granted an option to purchase 25,000 shares of the Company's common stock with an exercise price of $37.13, the closing share price of the Company's common stock on the date of grant, October 10, 2007. Such option will vest over a four-year period so long as Ms. Greenthal remains a member of the Board of Directors.
 
A copy of the press release issued by the Company announcing Ms. Greenthal's election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Akamai Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ: AKAM), the leading global service provider for accelerating content and applications online, today announced the election of Jill A. Greenthal, a Senior Advisor in Private Equity at the Blackstone Group. Ms Greenthal, a former investment banker with over 20 years experience representing many of the world's leading media, technology and telecommunications companies, will fill a vacancy on Akamai's Board of Directors.
CAMBRIDGE, MA  October 10, 2007 
"It is an honor to welcome Jill Greenthal to our Board of Directors," said Paul Sagan, president and CEO of Akamai. "Jill has a deep understanding of the media, Internet technology and telecommunications industries and we will benefit from her knowledge of the rapid changes rippling through these industries as we continue to expand the breadth of our offerings."
Ms. Greenthal said, "Akamai has dramatically transformed how many industries are leveraging the Internet to expand their businesses. In addition to providing technology for the reliable and scalable delivery of rich media, Akamai is helping its customers create entirely new business models for monetizing their digital assets. I am looking forward to the opportunity to contribute to such a dynamic company."
Before joining Blackstone in 2003, Ms. Greenthal was co-head of the Global Media Group, co-head of the Boston Office and a member of the Executive Board of Investment Banking at Credit Suisse First Boston. She was also co-head of the Boston office of Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette, before its acquisition by CSFB. Prior to joining DLJ, Ms. Greenthal was head of the Media Group at Lehman Brothers.
Ms. Greenthal is also a member of the board of directors of Freedom Communications, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, Orbitz Worldwide, and Universal Orlando.
About Akamai
Akamai is the leading global service provider for accelerating content and applications online. Thousands of organizations have formed trusted relationships with Akamai, improving their revenue and reducing costs by maximizing the performance of their online businesses.
Leveraging the Akamai EdgePlatform, these organizations gain business advantage today, and have the foundation for the emerging Web solutions of tomorrow. Akamai is For more information, visit .
"The Trusted Choice for Online Business."
www.akamai.com


