FILE:AKAM/AKAM-8K-20070718163237.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
(d) On July 16, 2007, the Board of Directors of Akamai Technologies, Inc. (the "Company") elected David W. Kenny as a director to fill a vacancy on its Board of Directors. Mr. Kenny was designated as a Class III member of the Board of Directors and was elected to serve until the 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders or his successor is duly appointed and qualified. Mr. Kenny is Chairman and CEO of Digitas Inc., a digital and direct marketing agency, and a member of the Executive Committee of Publicis Groupe, an international media and communications firm that acquired Digitas earlier this year. Mr. Kenny was recommended to the Board of Directors by the Company's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (the "Committee") in accordance with the provisions of the Committee's charter.
There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Kenny and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Kenny was elected as a director. Mr. Kenny has been appointed to serve on the Audit Committee and the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. There are no transactions in which Mr. Kenny has an interest requiring disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
In accordance with the Company's Director Compensation Plan, Mr. Kenny was granted an option to purchase 25,000 shares of the Company's common stock with an exercise price of $, the closing share price of the Company's common stock on the date of grant, July 17, 2007. Such option will vest over a four-year period so long as Mr. Kenny remains a member of the Board of Directors.
49.14
 
A copy of the press release issued by the Company announcing Mr. Kenny's election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Akamai Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ: AKAM), the leading global service provider for accelerating content and applications online, today announced the election to its Board of Directors of David W. Kenny, Chairman and CEO of Digitas. Kenny is also a member of the Executive Committee of Publicis Groupe S.A. (Euronext Paris: FR0000130577, NYSE: PUB), where he leads the Groupe's overall digital and interactive strategy. Publicis, which acquired Digitas earlier this year, is the world's fourth largest communications group and second largest media counsel and buying group.
CAMBRIDGE, MA  July 17, 2007 
Mr. Kenny, 45, became CEO of Digitas in 1997, and has led Digitas through a decade of evolution and growth. Digitas has become one of the industry's leading digital marketing services organizations, serving blue-chip global brands.
"It is an honor to welcome David to our Board of Directors. I have long been impressed by his intelligence, integrity, and curiosity," said Paul Sagan, president and CEO of Akamai. "He brings valuable expertise and insight in the fields of Internet advertising and marketing, and has helped blue-chip, global brands develop, engage and profit from digital and interactive strategies. David shares our vision, values, and passion for leveraging Internet technology, and will be an important contributor to the Board's work on behalf of shareholders."
"Akamai provides a unique set of services to help companies manage, deliver and monetize their digital assets and initiatives," said Kenny. "Marrying those services with innovative online advertising campaigns is a key opportunity moving forward. It's a privilege and important responsibility to be a member of the board of this dynamic company."
A former senior partner at Bain & Company, David holds a B.S. from the General Motors Institute (Kettering University) and an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School. He is a board member for Teach For America and a director of The Corporate Executive Board.
About Akamai
Akamai is the leading global service provider for accelerating content and applications online. Thousands of organizations have formed trusted relationships with Akamai, improving their revenue and reducing costs by maximizing the performance of their online businesses. Leveraging the Akamai EdgePlatform, these organizations gain business advantage today, and have the foundation for the emerging Web solutions of tomorrow. Akamai is "" For more information, visit
The Trusted Choice for Online Business.
www.akamai.com.


