FILE:AKAM/AKAM-8K-20110523160053.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the annual meeting of stockholders of Akamai Technologies, Inc. (the "Company") held on May 18, 2011 (the "Annual Meeting"), the Company's stockholders approved an amendment to the Akamai Technologies Inc. 2009 Stock Incentive Plan (the "2009 Plan") to increase the number of shares available for issuance thereunder by 7 million; such amendment had previously been adopted by the Company's Board of Directors subject to stockholder approval.
The following brief description of the 2009 Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the plan, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference:
The 2009 Plan allows for the issuance of incentive stock options intended to qualify under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, nonstatutory stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, deferred stock units and other stock unit awards. Subject to adjustment in the event of stock splits, stock dividends or similar events, awards may be made under the 2009 Plan for (i) up to 8,500,000 shares of the Company's common stock and (ii) any shares of common stock subject to awards that are currently outstanding under existing equity incentive plans that are terminated, cancelled, surrendered or forfeited, subject to adjustment under the terms of the 2009 Plan. As a result of the approved amendment, the 8,500,000 share allowance increased to 15,500,000.
Employees, officers, directors, consultants and advisors of the Company and its subsidiaries are eligible to be granted awards under the 2009 Plan. Under present law, however, incentive stock options may only be granted to employees of the Company and its majority owned subsidiaries. The 2009 Plan is administered by the Company's Board of Directors. Under the terms of the 2009 Plan, the Board of Directors may delegate authority under the 2009 Plan to one or more committees or subcommittees of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors has authorized the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") to administer certain aspects of the 2009 Plan, including the granting of awards to executive officers. In addition, as permitted by the terms of the 2009 Plan, the Board of Directors has delegated to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, as a committee of one director, the authority to grant equity awards to non-executive employees in accordance with guidelines established by the Committee.
The Board of Directors or the Committee may modify awards granted to participants who are foreign nationals or employed outside the United States or establish sub plans or procedures under the 2009 Plan to recognize differences in laws, rules, regulations or customs of such foreign jurisdictions with respect to tax, securities, currency, employee benefit or other matters.
 
At the Annual Meeting, five items of business were acted upon by stockholders. There were 187,464,359 shares of Akamai's common stock eligible to vote, and 158,595,378 shares present in person or by proxy at the Annual Meeting.
1. The following nominees were elected to the Company's Board of Directors as Class III directors for terms expiring at the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders.
 
Following the Annual Meeting, George H. Conrades, Martin M. Coyne II, Jill A. Greenthal and Geoffrey A. Moore, having terms expiring in 2012, and Pamela J. Craig, F. Thomson Leighton, Paul Sagan and Naomi O. Seligman, having terms expiring in 2013, continued in office.
2. An amendment to the 2009 Plan to increase the number of shares available for issuance thereunder by 7 million was approved.
 
3. A non-binding, advisory proposal on the compensation of the Company's named executive officers was approved.
 
4. The stockholders recommended, in a non-binding, advisory vote, that future advisory votes on the compensation of the Company's named executive officers be held every year.
 
After taking into consideration the foregoing voting results and the Board's prior recommendation in favor of an annual advisory stockholder vote on the compensation of the Company's named executive officers, the Board intends to hold future advisory votes on the compensation of the Company's named executive officers every year.
5. The appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the independent registered public accounting firm for the Company for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011 was ratified.
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
The Akamai Technologies, Inc. 2009 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") be and hereby is amended by deleting the first two sentences of Section 4(a) thereof in their entirety and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
"Subject to adjustment under Section 9, Awards may be made under the Plan for up to 15,500,000 shares of common stock, $0.01 par value per share, of the Company (the "Common Stock"). Subject to adjustment under Section 9, up to 15,500,000 shares of Common Stock may be issued upon exercise of Incentive Stock Options (as hereinafter defined) granted under the Plan."
Adopted by the Board of Directors on January 19, 2011.
Approved by the Stockholders on May 18, 2011.
 
The purpose of this 2009 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") of Akamai Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company" or "Akamai"), is to advance the interests of the Company's stockholders by enhancing the Company's ability to attract, retain and motivate persons who are expected to make important contributions to the Company and by providing such persons with equity ownership opportunities and performance-based incentives that are intended to align their interests with those of the Company's stockholders. Except where the context otherwise requires, the term "Company" shall include any of the Company's present or future parent or subsidiary corporations as defined in Sections 424(e) or (f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any regulations promulgated thereunder (the "Code") and any other business venture (including, without limitation, joint venture or limited liability company) in which the Company has a controlling interest, as determined by the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board").
 
Except as otherwise provided in Section 5(b), all of the Company's employees, officers, directors, consultants and advisors are eligible to receive options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based awards (each, an "Award") under the Plan. Each person who receives an Award under the Plan is deemed a "Participant".
 
(a) . The Plan will be administered by the Board. Subject to and consistent with the provisions of the Plan, the Board shall have the authority and discretion to: (i) determine which eligible employees, officers, directors, consultants and advisors will receive Awards, (ii) determine the number of shares of Common Stock (as hereinafter defined), cash, or other
Administration by Board of Directors
consideration to be covered by each Award, (iii) determine the terms and conditions of any Award (including Fair Market Value (as hereinafter defined), the exercise price, the vesting schedule, the term of the Award, and the period following termination from employment or service during which an Award may be exercised), (iv) approve forms of Award agreements and other documentation for use under the Plan, (v) adopt, alter, and repeal administrative rules, guidelines, and practices governing the operation of the Plan, (vi) interpret the provisions of the Plan and any Award documentation and remedy any ambiguities, omissions, or inconsistencies therein, (vii) modify or amend Awards, or grant waivers of Plan or Award conditions, (viii) determine the nature and provisions of Other Stock Unit Awards (as hereinafter defined) permitted pursuant to Section 8, and (ix) make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. All decisions by the Board shall be made in the Board's sole discretion and shall be final and binding on all persons having or claiming any interest in the Plan or in any Award. No director or person acting pursuant to the authority delegated by the Board shall be liable for any action or determination relating to or under the Plan made in good faith.
(b) .To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Board may delegate any or all of its powers under the Plan to one or more committees or subcommittees of the Board (a "Committee"). All references in the Plan to the "Board" shall mean the Board or a Committee of the Board or the officers referred to in Section 3(c) to the extent that the Board's powers or authority under the Plan have been delegated to such Committee or officers. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of granting Awards to directors, the Committee shall mean the Compensation Committee.
Appointment of Committees
(c) . To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Board may delegate to one or more officers of the Company the power to grant Awards to employees or officers of the Company or any of its present or future subsidiary corporations and to exercise such other powers under the Plan as the Board may determine, provided that the Board shall fix the terms of the Awards to be granted by such officers (including the exercise price of such Awards, which may include a formula by which the exercise price will be determined) and the maximum number of shares subject to Awards that the officers may grant; provided further, however, that no officer shall be authorized to grant Awards to any "executive officer" of the Company (as defined by Rule 3b-7 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) or to any "officer" of the Company (as defined by Rule 16a-1 under the Exchange Act).
Delegation to Officers
(d) . Awards to non-employee directors will only be granted and administered by a Committee, all of the members of which are independent as defined by Section 4200(a)(15) of the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules.
Awards to Non-Employee Directors
 
(a) . Subject to adjustment under Section 9, Awards may be made under the Plan for up to 8,500,000 shares of common stock, $0.01 par value per share, of the Company (the "Common Stock"). Subject to adjustment under Section 9, up to 8,500,000 shares of Common Stock may be issued upon exercise of Incentive Stock Options (as hereinafter defined) granted under the Plan. If any Award granted under this Plan or any stock award granted under the Company's Second Amended and Restated 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, 2001 Stock Incentive Plan or 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (together, the "Existing Plans") expires or is terminated, surrendered or canceled without having been fully exercised, is forfeited in whole or in part, is settled in cash or otherwise, or results in any Common Stock not being issued, the unused Common Stock covered by such Award or any award issued under the Existing Plans shall revert or again be available for the grant of Awards under the Plan. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Section 4(a), any shares not issued or delivered as a result of the net settlement of any outstanding Stock Appreciation Right, any shares tendered in payment of an Option's exercise price (whether by attestation or actual delivery), any shares tendered or withheld to satisfy a tax withholding on an Award, and any shares repurchased by the Company using Option proceeds shall not
Number of Shares
 
revert or again be available for the grant of Awards under the Plan. In the case of Incentive Stock Options (as hereinafter defined), the foregoing provisions shall be subject to any limitations under the Code. Shares issued under the Plan may consist in whole or in part of authorized but unissued shares, treasury shares or shares purchased on the open market.
(b) . Subject to adjustment under Section 9, the following sub-limits on the number of shares subject to Awards shall apply:
Sub-limits
(1) . The maximum number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which Awards may be granted to any Participant under the Plan shall be 1,000,000 per calendar year. For purposes of the foregoing limit, the combination of an Option in tandem with an SAR (as each is hereafter defined) shall be treated as a single Award. The per-Participant limit described in this Section 4(b)(1) shall be construed and applied consistently with Section 162(m) of the Code or any successor provision thereto, and the regulations thereunder ("Section 162(m)").
Section 162(m) Per-Participant Limit
(2) . The maximum number of shares with respect to which Awards other than Options and SARs may be granted shall be 90% of the total number of shares available for issuance under the Plan.
Limit on Awards other than Options and SARS
(3) . The maximum aggregate number of shares with respect to which Awards may be granted to directors who are not employees of the Company at the time of grant shall be 10% of the total number of shares available for issuance under the Plan.
Limit on Awards to Directors
(c) . In connection with a merger or consolidation of an entity with the Company or the acquisition by the Company of property or stock of an entity, the Board may grant Awards in substitution for any options or other stock or stock-based awards granted by such entity or an affiliate thereof. Substitute Awards may be granted on such terms as the Board deems appropriate in the circumstances, notwithstanding any limitations on Awards contained in the Plan. Substitute Awards shall not count against the overall share limit set forth in Section 4(a), except as may be required by reason of Section 422 and related provisions of the Code.
Substitute Awards
 
(a) . The Board may grant options to purchase Common Stock (each, an "Option") and determine the number of shares of Common Stock to be covered by each Option, the exercise price of each Option and the conditions and limitations applicable to the exercise of each Option, including conditions relating to applicable federal or state securities laws, as it considers necessary or advisable. An Option that is not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option (as hereinafter defined) shall be designated a "Nonstatutory Stock Option".
General
(b) . An Option that the Board intends to be an "incentive stock option" as defined in Section 422 of the Code (an "Incentive Stock Option") shall only be granted to employees of Akamai, any of Akamai's present or future parent or subsidiary corporations as defined in Sections 424(e) or (f) of the Code, and any other entities the employees of which are eligible to receive Incentive Stock Options under the Code, and shall be subject to and shall be construed consistently with the requirements of Section 422 of the Code. If the Fair Market Value (as defined below) of shares on the date of grant with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by a Participant during any calendar year exceeds $100,000, the Options for the first $100,000 worth of shares to become exercisable in that calendar year will be Incentive Stock Options, and the Options for the shares with a Fair Market Value (as defined below) in excess of $100,000 that become exercisable in that calendar year will be Nonstatutory Stock Options. The Company shall have no liability to a Participant, or any other party, if an Option (or any part thereof) that is intended to be an Incentive Stock Option is not an Incentive Stock Option or for any action taken by the Board, including without limitation the conversion of an Incentive Stock Option to a Nonstatutory Stock Option.
Incentive Stock Options
 
(c) . The Board shall establish the exercise price of each Option and specify such exercise price in the applicable option agreement; provided however, that the exercise price shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value (as defined below) on the date the Option is granted, provided that if the Board approves the grant of an Option with an exercise price to be determined on a future date, the exercise price shall be not less than 100% of the Fair Market Value on such future date.
Exercise Price
(d) .Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, the Company shall not engage in any repricing of Options or SARs granted under this Plan without further stockholder approval. For this purpose, the term "repricing" shall mean any of the following or other action that has the same effect: (i) lowering the exercise price of an Option or a SAR after it is granted, (ii) any other action that is treated as a repricing under generally accepted accounting principles, or (iii) canceling an Option or a SAR at a time when its exercise price exceeds the fair market value of the underlying stock in exchange for another Option, SAR, Restricted Stock, or other equity of the Company, unless the cancellation and exchange occurs in connection with a merger, acquisition, spin-off, or similar corporate transaction (including any adjustment described in Section 9).
No Repricing of Options
 
(e) . Each Option shall be exercisable at such times and subject to such terms and conditions as the Board may specify in the applicable option agreement; provided however, that no Option will be granted for a term in excess of 7 years.
Duration of Options
(f) . Options may be exercised by delivery to the Company of a written notice of exercise signed by the proper person or by any other form of notice (including electronic notice) approved by the Board together with payment in full as specified in Section 5(g) for the number of shares for which the Option is exercised. Shares of Common Stock subject to the Option will be delivered by the Company following exercise either as soon as practicable or, subject to such conditions as the Board shall specify, on a deferred basis (with the Company's obligation to be evidenced by an instrument providing for future delivery of the deferred shares at the time or times specified by the Board).
Exercise of Option
(g) . Common Stock purchased upon the exercise of an Option granted under the Plan shall be paid for as follows:
Payment Upon Exercise
(1) in cash or by check, payable to the order of the Company;
(2) except as may otherwise be provided in the applicable option agreement, by (i) delivery of an irrevocable and unconditional undertaking by a creditworthy broker to deliver promptly to the Company sufficient funds to pay the exercise price and any required tax withholding or (ii) delivery by the Participant to the Company of a copy of irrevocable and unconditional instructions to a creditworthy broker to deliver promptly to the Company cash or a check sufficient to pay the exercise price and any required tax withholding;
(3) to the extent provided for in the applicable option agreement or approved by the Board, in its sole discretion, by delivery (either by actual delivery or attestation) of shares of Common Stock owned by the Participant valued at their fair market value as determined by (or in a manner approved by) the Board ("Fair Market Value") provided (i) such method of payment is then permitted under applicable law, (ii) such Common Stock, if acquired directly from the Company, was owned by the Participant for such minimum period of time, if any, as may be established by the Board in its discretion and (iii) such Common Stock is not subject to any repurchase, forfeiture, unfulfilled vesting or other similar requirements;
 
(4) to the extent permitted by applicable law and provided for in the applicable option agreement or approved by the Board in its sole discretion, by (i) delivery of a promissory note of the Participant to the Company on terms determined by the Board, or (ii) payment of such other lawful consideration as the Board may determine;
(5) to the extent permitted by applicable law and provided for in the applicable option agreement or approved by the Board in its sole discretion, by retaining shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable pursuant to the Option;
(6) by any combination of the above permitted forms of payment.
(h) . No option granted under the Plan shall contain any provision entitling the grantee to the automatic grant of additional Options in connection with any exercise of the original Option.
No Reload Rights
 
(a) . The Board may grant Awards consisting of a Stock Appreciation Right, "SAR", entitling the holder, upon exercise, to receive an amount in Common Stock determined by reference to appreciation, from and after the date of grant, in the fair market value of a share of Common Stock. The date as of which such appreciation or other measure is determined shall be the exercise date.
General
(b) . Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted in tandem with, or independently of, Options granted under the Plan.
Grants
(1) . When Stock Appreciation Rights are expressly granted in tandem with Options, (i) the Stock Appreciation Right will be exercisable only at such time or times, and to the extent, that the related Option is exercisable (except to the extent designated by the Board in connection with an Acquisition Event or Change in Control Event) and will be exercisable in accordance with the procedure required for exercise of the related Option; (ii) the Stock Appreciation Right will terminate and no longer be exercisable upon the termination or exercise of the related Option, except to the extent designated by the Board in connection with an Acquisition Event or Change in Control Event and except that a Stock Appreciation Right granted with respect to less than the full number of shares covered by an Option will not be reduced until the number of shares as to which the related Option has been exercised or has terminated exceeds the number of shares not covered by the Stock Appreciation Right; (iii) the Option will terminate and no longer be exercisable upon the exercise of the related Stock Appreciation Right; and (iv) the Stock Appreciation Right will be transferable only with the related Option.
Tandem Awards
(2) . A Stock Appreciation Right not expressly granted in tandem with an Option will become exercisable at such time or times, and on such conditions, as the Board may specify in the SAR Award.
Independent SARs
(c) . The grant price or exercise price of a SAR shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the date of grant of the SAR.
Grant Price
(d) . The term of a SAR shall not be more than 7 years from the date of grant.
Term
(e) . Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised by delivery to the Company of a written notice of exercise signed by the proper person or by any other form of notice (including electronic notice) approved by the Board, together with any other documents required by the Board.
Exercise
 
(a) . The Board may grant Awards entitling recipients to acquire shares of Common Stock ("Restricted Stock"), subject to the right of the Company to repurchase all or part of such shares at their issue price or other stated or formula price (or to require forfeiture of such shares if issued at no cost) from the recipient in the event that conditions specified by the Board in the applicable Award are not satisfied prior to the end of the applicable restriction period or periods established by the Board for such Award. Instead of granting Awards for Restricted Stock, the Board may grant Awards entitling the recipient to receive shares of Common Stock to be delivered at the time such shares of Common Stock vest ("Restricted Stock Units" or "Deferred Stock Units"). (Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units and Deferred Stock Units are each referred to herein as a "Restricted Stock Award".)
General
(b) . The Board shall determine the terms and conditions of a Restricted Stock Award, including the conditions for vesting and repurchase (or forfeiture) and the issue price, if any.
Terms and Conditions for all Restricted Stock Awards
(c) .
Additional Provisions Relating to Restricted Stock
(1) . Participants holding shares of Restricted Stock will be entitled to all ordinary cash dividends paid with respect to such shares, unless otherwise provided by the Board. If any such dividends or distributions are paid in shares, or consist of a dividend or distribution to holders of Common Stock other than an ordinary cash dividend, the shares, cash or other property will be subject to the same restrictions on transferability and forfeitability as the shares of Restricted Stock with respect to which they were paid. Each dividend payment will be made no later than the end of the calendar year in which the dividends are paid to shareholders of that class of stock or, if later, the 15th day of the third month following the date the dividends are paid to shareholders of that class of stock.
Dividends
(2) . The Company may require that any stock certificates issued in respect of shares of Restricted Stock shall be deposited in escrow by the Participant, together with a stock power endorsed in blank, with the Company (or its designee). At the expiration of the applicable restriction periods, the Company (or such designee) shall deliver the certificates no longer subject to such restrictions to the Participant or if the Participant has died, to the beneficiary designated, in a manner determined by the Board, by a Participant to receive amounts due or exercise rights of the Participant in the event of the Participant's death (the "Designated Beneficiary"). In the absence of an effective designation by a Participant, "Designated Beneficiary" shall mean the Participant's estate.
Stock Certificates
(d) Additional Provisions Relating to Deferred Stock Units and Restricted Stock Units.
(1) . Upon the vesting of and/or lapsing of any other restrictions (i.e., settlement) with respect to each Restricted Stock Unit or Deferred Stock Unit, the Participant shall be entitled to receive from the Company one share of Common Stock or an amount of cash equal to the Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock, as provided in the applicable Award agreement. The Board may, in its discretion, provide that settlement of Restricted Stock Units and Deferred Stock Units shall be deferred, on a mandatory basis or at the election of the Participant in a manner that complies with Code Section 409A.
Settlement
(2) . A Participant shall have no voting rights with respect to any Restricted Stock Units or Deferred Stock Units.
Voting Rights
(3) . To the extent provided by the Board, in its sole discretion, a grant of Restricted Stock Units or Deferred Stock Units may provide Participants with the right to receive an amount equal to any dividends or other distributions declared and paid on an equal number of
Dividend Equivalents
 
outstanding shares of Common Stock ("Dividend Equivalents"). Dividend Equivalents may be paid currently or credited to an account for the Participants, may be settled in cash and/or shares of Common Stock and may be subject to the same restrictions on transfer and forfeitability as the Restricted Stock Units or Deferred Stock Units with respect to which paid, as determined by the Board in its sole discretion, subject in each case to such terms and conditions as the Board shall establish, in each case to be set forth in the applicable Award agreement. To the extent Dividend Equivalents are paid, any payments will be made no later than the end of the calendar year in which the dividends are paid to shareholders of that class of stock or, if later, the 15th day of the third month following the date the dividends are paid to shareholders of that class of stock.
 
Other Awards of shares of Common Stock, and other Awards that are valued in whole or in part by reference to, or are otherwise based on, shares of Common Stock or other property, may be granted hereunder to Participants ("Other Stock Unit Awards"), including without limitation Awards entitling recipients to receive shares of Common Stock to be delivered in the future. Such Other Stock Unit Awards shall also be available as a form of payment in the settlement of other Awards granted under the Plan or as payment in lieu of compensation to which a Participant is otherwise entitled. Other Stock Unit Awards may be paid in shares of Common Stock or cash, as the Board shall determine. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Board shall determine the terms and conditions of each Other Stock Unit Award, including any purchase price applicable thereto.
 
(a) . In the event of any stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, reclassification of shares, spin-off or other similar change in capitalization or event, or any dividend or distribution to holders of Common Stock other than an ordinary cash dividend, (i) the number and class of securities available under this Plan, (ii) the sub-limits set forth in Section 4(b), (iii) the number and class of securities and exercise price per share of each outstanding Option, (iv) the share- and per-share provisions and the exercise price of each Stock Appreciation Right, (v) the number of shares subject to and the repurchase price per share subject to each outstanding Restricted Stock Award and (vi) the share- and per-share-related provisions and the purchase price, if any, of each outstanding Other Stock Unit Award, shall be appropriately adjusted by the Company (or substituted Awards may be made, if applicable) to the extent determined by the Board. If this Section 9(a) applies and Section 9(c) also applies to any event, Section 9(c) shall be applicable to such event, and this section 9(a) shall not be applicable.
Changes in Capitalization
(b) . In the event of a proposed liquidation or dissolution of the Company, the Board shall upon written notice to the Participants provide that all then unexercised Options will (i) become exercisable in full as of a specified time at least 10 business days prior to the effective date of such liquidation or dissolution and (ii) terminate effective upon such liquidation or dissolution, except to the extent exercised before such effective date. The Board may specify the effect of a liquidation or dissolution on any Restricted Stock Award or other Award granted under the Plan at the time of the grant of such Award.
Liquidation or Dissolution
(c)
Acquisition and Change in Control Events
(1) Definitions
(a) An "Acquisition Event" shall mean:
 
 
(b) A "Change in Control Event" shall mean:
 
 
 
 
(2) Effect on Options
(a) . Upon the occurrence of an Acquisition Event (regardless of whether such event also constitutes a Change in Control Event), or the execution by the Company of any agreement with respect to an Acquisition Event (regardless of whether such event will result in a Change in Control Event), the Board shall provide that all outstanding Options shall be assumed, or equivalent options shall be substituted, by the acquiring or succeeding corporation (or an affiliate thereof); provided that if such Acquisition Event also constitutes a Change in Control Event, except to the extent specifically provided to the contrary in the instrument evidencing any Option or any other agreement between a Participant and the Company, such assumed or substituted options shall be immediately exercisable in full upon the occurrence of such Acquisition Event. For purposes hereof, an Option shall be considered to be assumed if, following consummation of the Acquisition Event, the Option confers the right to purchase, for each share of Common Stock subject to the Option immediately prior to the consummation of the Acquisition Event, the consideration (whether cash, securities or other property) received as a result of the Acquisition Event by holders of Common Stock for each share of Common Stock held immediately prior to the consummation of the Acquisition Event (and if holders were offered a choice of consideration, the type of consideration chosen by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Common Stock); provided, however, that if the consideration received as a result of the Acquisition Event is not solely common stock of the acquiring or succeeding corporation (or an affiliate thereof), the Company may, with the consent of the acquiring or succeeding corporation, provide for the consideration to be received upon the exercise of Options to consist solely of common stock of the acquiring or succeeding corporation (or an affiliate thereof) equivalent in fair market value to the per share consideration received by holders of outstanding shares of Common Stock as a result of the Acquisition Event.
Acquisition Event
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the acquiring or succeeding corporation (or an affiliate thereof) does not agree to assume, or substitute for, such Options, then the Board shall, upon written notice to the Participants, provide that all then unexercised Options will become exercisable in full as of a specified time prior to the Acquisition Event and will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such Acquisition Event, except to the extent exercised by the Participants before the consummation of such Acquisition Event; provided, however, in the event of an Acquisition Event under the terms of which holders of Common Stock will receive upon consummation thereof a cash payment for each share of Common Stock surrendered pursuant to such Acquisition Event (the "Acquisition Price"), then the Board may instead provide that all outstanding Options shall terminate upon consummation of such Acquisition Event and that each Participant shall receive, in exchange therefor, a cash payment equal to the amount (if any) by which (A) the Acquisition Price multiplied by the number of shares of Common Stock subject to such outstanding Options (whether or not then exercisable), exceeds (B) the aggregate exercise price of such Options.
(b) . Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control Event that does not also constitute an Acquisition Event, except to the extent specifically provided to the contrary in the instrument evidencing any Option or any other agreement between a Participant and the Company, all Options then-outstanding shall automatically become immediately exercisable in full.
Change in Control Event that is not an Acquisition Event
 
(3) Effect on Restricted Stock Awards
(a) . Upon the occurrence of an Acquisition Event that is not a Change in Control Event, the repurchase and other rights of the Company under each outstanding Restricted Stock Award shall inure to the benefit of the Company's successor and shall apply to the cash, securities or other property which the Common Stock was converted into or exchanged for pursuant to such Acquisition Event in the same manner and to the same extent as they applied to the Common Stock subject to such Restricted Stock Award.
Acquisition Event that is not a Change in Control Event
(b) . Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control Event (regardless of whether such event also constitutes an Acquisition Event), except to the extent specifically provided to the contrary in the instrument evidencing any Restricted Stock Award or any other agreement between a Participant and the Company, all restrictions and conditions on all Restricted Stock Awards then-outstanding shall automatically be deemed terminated or satisfied.
Change in Control Event
(4) Effect on Other Awards
(a) . The Board may specify at the time of grant the effect of an Acquisition Event that is not a Change in Control Event on any SAR and Other Stock Unit Award granted under the Plan at the time of the grant of such Award.
Acquisition Event that is not a Change in Control Event
(b) . Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control Event (regardless of whether such event also constitutes an Acquisition Event), except to the extent specifically provided to the contrary in the instrument evidencing any SAR or Other Stock Unit Award or any other agreement between a Participant and the Company, all other Awards shall become exercisable, realizable or vested in full, or shall be free of all conditions or restrictions, as applicable to each such Award.
Change in Control Event
 
(a) . Awards shall not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise encumbered by the person to whom they are granted, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution or, other than in the case of an Incentive Stock Option, pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order, and, during the life of the Participant, shall be exercisable only by the Participant; provided, however, that the Board may permit or provide in an Award for the gratuitous transfer of the Award by the Participant to or for the benefit of any immediate family member, family trust or other entity established for the benefit of the Participant and/or an immediate family member thereof if, with respect to such proposed transferee, the Company would be eligible to use a Form S-8 for the registration of the sale of the Common Stock subject to such Award under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, provided that Incentive Stock Options may be transferable only to the extent permitted by the Code; provided, further, that the Company shall not be required to recognize any such transfer until such time as the Participant and such permitted transferee shall, as a condition to such transfer, deliver to the Company a written instrument in form and substance satisfactory to the Company confirming that such transferee shall be bound by all of the terms and conditions of the Award. References to a Participant, to the extent relevant in the context, shall include references to authorized transferees.
Transferability of Awards
(b) . Each Award shall be evidenced in such form (written, electronic or otherwise) as the Board shall determine. Each Award may contain terms and conditions in addition to (but, except as expressly contemplated by another provision herein, not inconsistent with) those set forth in the Plan.
Documentation
 
(c) . Except as otherwise provided by the Plan, each Award may be made alone or in addition or in relation to any other Award. The terms of each Award need not be identical, and the Board need not treat Participants uniformly.
Board Discretion
(d) . The Board shall determine the effect on an Award of the disability, death, termination of employment, authorized leave of absence or other change in the employment or other status of a Participant and the extent to which, and the period during which, the Participant, or the Participant's legal representative, conservator, guardian or Designated Beneficiary, may exercise rights under the Award.
Termination of Status
(e) . Each Participant shall pay to the Company, or make provision satisfactory to the Company for payment of, any taxes required by law to be withheld in connection with an Award to such Participant. Except as the Board may otherwise provide in an Award, for so long as the Common Stock is registered under the Exchange Act, Participants may satisfy such tax obligations in whole or in part by delivery of shares of Common Stock, including shares retained from the Award creating the tax obligation, valued at their Fair Market Value; provided, however, except as otherwise provided by the Board, that the total tax withholding where stock is being used to satisfy such tax obligations cannot exceed the Company's minimum statutory withholding obligations (based on minimum statutory withholding rates for federal and state tax purposes, including payroll taxes, that are applicable to such supplemental taxable income). Shares surrendered to satisfy tax withholding requirements cannot be subject to any repurchase, forfeiture, unfulfilled vesting or other similar requirements. The Company may, to the extent permitted by law, deduct any such tax obligations from any payment of any kind otherwise due to a Participant.
Withholding
(f) . Except as provided in Section 5(d), the Board may amend, modify or terminate any outstanding Award, including but not limited to, substituting therefor another Award of the same or a different type, changing the date of exercise or realization, and converting an Incentive Stock Option to a Nonstatutory Stock Option, provided either (i) that the Participant's consent to such action shall be required unless the Board determines that the action, taking into account any related action, would not materially and adversely affect the Participant or (ii) that the change is permitted under Section 9 hereof.
Amendment of Award
(g) . The Company will not be obligated to deliver any shares of Common Stock pursuant to the Plan or to remove restrictions from shares previously delivered under the Plan until (i) all conditions of the Award have been met or removed to the satisfaction of the Company, (ii) in the opinion of the Company's counsel, all other legal matters in connection with the issuance and delivery of such shares have been satisfied, including any applicable securities laws and any applicable stock exchange or stock market rules and regulations, and (iii) the Participant has executed and delivered to the Company such representations or agreements as the Company may consider appropriate to satisfy the requirements of any applicable laws, rules or regulations.
Conditions on Delivery of Stock
(h) . Except as set forth in Section 10(j), the Board may at any time provide that any Award shall become immediately exercisable in full or in part, free of some or all restrictions or conditions, or otherwise realizable in full or in part, as the case may be.
Acceleration
(i) .
Performance Awards
(1) . Restricted Stock Awards and Other Stock Unit Awards under the Plan may be made subject to the achievement of performance goals pursuant to this Section 10(i) ("Performance Awards"), subject to the limit in Section 4(b)(1) on shares covered by such grants.
Grants
 
(2) . Grants of Performance Awards to any Covered Employee intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) ("Performance-Based Compensation") shall be made only by a Committee (or subcommittee of a Committee) comprised solely of two or more directors eligible to serve on a committee making Awards qualifying as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m). In the case of such Awards granted to Covered Employees, references to the Board or to a Committee shall be deemed to be references to such Committee or subcommittee. "Covered Employee" shall mean any person who is a "covered employee" under Section 162(m)(3) of the Code.
Committee
(3) . For any Award that is intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, the Committee shall specify that the degree of granting, vesting and/or payout shall be subject to the achievement of one or more objective performance measures established by the Committee, which shall be based on the relative or absolute attainment of specified levels of one or any combination of the following: (a) net income, (b) earnings before or after discontinued operations, interest, taxes, depreciation and/or amortization, (c) operating profit before or after discontinued operations and/or taxes, (d) revenue, (e) sales growth, (f) earnings growth, (g) cash flow or cash position, (h) gross margins, (i) stock price, (j) market share, (k) return on sales, assets, equity or investment, (l) improvement of financial ratings, (m) achievement of balance sheet or income statement objectives, (n) total shareholder return, or (o) earnings per share and may be absolute in their terms or measured against or in relationship to other companies comparably, similarly or otherwise situated. Such performance measures may be adjusted to exclude any one or more of (I) extraordinary items, (II) gains or losses on the dispositions of discontinued operations, (III) the cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles, (IV) the writedown of any asset, (V) charges for restructuring and rationalization programs, (VI) other non-cash charges or items, and (VII) gains or losses relating to financing or investment activities. Such performance measures: (A) may vary by Participant and may be different for different Awards; (B) may be particular to a Participant or the department, branch, line of business, subsidiary or other unit in which the Participant works and may cover such period as may be specified by the Committee; and (C) shall be set by the Committee within the time period prescribed by, and shall otherwise comply with the requirements of, Section 162(m). Awards that are not intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation may be based on these or such other performance measures as the Board may determine.
Performance Measures
(4) . Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan, with respect to any Performance Award that is intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, the Committee may adjust downwards, but not upwards, the cash or number of Shares payable pursuant to such Award, and the Committee may not waive the achievement of the applicable performance measures except in the case of the death or disability of the Participant.
Adjustments
(5) . The Committee shall have the power to impose such other restrictions on Performance Awards as it may deem necessary or appropriate to ensure that such Awards satisfy all requirements for Performance-Based Compensation. Prior to the payment of any Award subject to this Section 10(i) the underlying metrics for which have not been included in a public filing or press release issued by the Company, the Committee shall certify in writing (which may be satisfied by the inclusion of such a determination in the minutes of a meeting of such Committee) that the performance goals and other material terms applicable to such Award were satisfied.
Other
(j) . Each Restricted Stock Award and Other Stock Unit Award (other than those Restricted Stock Awards and Other Stock Unit Awards which may only be settled in cash) granted under the Plan (each, a "Full Value Award") shall vest in accordance with a schedule that does not permit such Full Value Award to vest in full prior to the third anniversary of the date of grant of the Award. This minimum vesting requirement shall not, however, preclude the Board from exercising its discretion to (i) accelerate the vesting of any Full Value Award
Minimum Vesting Requirements for Full Value Awards
 
upon retirement, termination of employment by the Company, death or disability, (ii) accelerate the vesting of any Full Value Award in accordance with Section 9(c), (iii) establish a shorter vesting schedule for any Full Value Award granted to an advisor, consultant, director, or newly-hired employee, (iv) establish a shorter vesting schedule for any Full Value Award that is granted in exchange for or in lieu of the right to receive the payment of an equivalent amount of salary, bonus, directors' fees, or other cash compensation, (v) establish a shorter performance-based vesting schedule in accordance with Section 10(i) or otherwise (but in each case of not less than one year), or (vi) vest up to 1,000 shares per year for each Participant; provided, however, that the aggregate number of Full Value Awards that may be granted under clauses (iii) and (vi) above shall not exceed five percent (5%) of the number of shares available for issuance under the Plan.
(k) .To the extent required to comply with Treasury Regulation Section 1.401(k)-1(d)(2)(iv)(B)(4), or any amendment or successor thereto, a Participant's "elective and employee contributions" (within the meaning of such Treasury Regulation) under the Plan shall be suspended for a period of twelve months following such Participant's receipt of a hardship distribution made in reliance on such Treasury Regulation from any plan containing a cash or deferred arrangement under Section 401(k) of the Code maintained by the Company or a related party within the provisions of Section 414 of the Code.
Limitation Following a Hardship Distribution
 
 
(a) . No person shall have any claim or right to be granted an Award, and the grant of an Award shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to continued employment or any other relationship with the Company. The Company expressly reserves the right at any time to dismiss or otherwise terminate its relationship with a Participant free from any liability or claim under the Plan, except as expressly provided in the applicable Award.
No Right To Employment or Other Status
(b) . Subject to the provisions of the applicable Award, no Participant or Designated Beneficiary shall have any rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares of Common Stock to be distributed with respect to an Award until becoming the record holder of such shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event the Company effects a split of the Common Stock by means of a stock dividend and the exercise price of and the number of shares subject to such Option are adjusted as of the date of the distribution of the dividend (rather than as of the record date for such dividend), then an optionee who exercises an Option between the record date and the distribution date for such stock dividend shall be entitled to receive, on the distribution date, the stock dividend with respect to the shares of Common Stock acquired upon such Option exercise, notwithstanding the fact that such shares were not outstanding as of the close of business on the record date for such stock dividend.
No Rights As Stockholder
(c) . The Plan shall become effective on the date the Plan is approved by the Company's stockholders (the "Effective Date"). No Awards shall be granted under the Plan after the completion of 10 years from the Effective Date, but Awards previously granted may extend beyond that date.
Effective Date and Term of Plan
(d) . The Board may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan or any portion thereof at any time provided that (i) to the extent required by Section 162(m), no Award granted to a Participant that is intended to comply with Section 162(m) after the date of such amendment shall become exercisable, realizable or vested, as applicable to such Award, unless and until such amendment shall have been approved by the Company's stockholders if required by Section 162(m) (including the vote required under Section 162(m)); (ii) no amendment that would require stockholder approval under the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market ("NASDAQ") may be made effective unless and until such amendment shall have been approved by the Company's stockholders; and (iii) if the NASDAQ amends its corporate governance rules so that such rules no longer require stockholder approval of material
Amendment of Plan
 
amendments to equity compensation plans, then, from and after the effective date of such amendment to the NASDAQ rules, no amendment to the Plan (A) materially increasing the number of shares authorized under the Plan (other than pursuant to Section 9), (B) expanding the types of Awards that may be granted under the Plan, (C) materially expanding the class of participants eligible to participate in the Plan, or (D) materially increasing benefits generally available to Participants shall be effective unless stockholder approval is obtained. In addition, if at any time the approval of the Company's stockholders is required as to any other modification or amendment under Section 422 of the Code or any successor provision with respect to Incentive Stock Options, the Board may not effect such modification or amendment without such approval.
(e) . The Board may modify Awards or Options granted to Participants who are foreign nationals or employed outside the United States or establish subplans or procedures under the Plan to recognize differences in laws, rules, regulations or customs of such foreign jurisdictions with respect to tax, securities, currency, employee benefit or other matters.
Provisions for Foreign Participants
(f) . Except as provided in individual Award agreements initially or by amendment, if and to the extent any portion of any payment, compensation or other benefit provided to a Participant in connection with his or her employment termination is determined to constitute "nonqualified deferred compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and the Participant is a specified employee as defined in Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code, as determined by the Company in accordance with its procedures, by which determination the Participant (through accepting the Award) agrees that he or she is bound, such portion of the payment, compensation or other benefit shall not be paid before the day that is six months plus one day after the date of "separation from service" (as determined under Code Section 409A) (the "New Payment Date"), except as Code Section 409A may then permit. The aggregate of any payments that otherwise would have been paid to the Participant during the period between the date of separation from service and the New Payment Date shall be paid to the Participant in a lump sum on such New Payment Date, and any remaining payments will be paid on their original schedule. The Company shall have no liability to a Participant, or any other Party if an Award that is intended to be exempt from, or compliant with, Section 409A is not so exempt or compliant or for any action taken by the Board.
Compliance With Code Section 409A
(g) . Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, no individual acting as a director, officer, other employee, or agent of the Company will be liable to any Participant, former Participant, spouse, beneficiary, or any other person for any claim, loss, liability, or expense incurred in connection with the Plan, nor will such individual be personally liable with respect to the Plan because of any contract or other instrument he or she executes in his or her capacity as a director, officer, other employee, or agent of the Company. The Company will indemnify and hold harmless each director, officer, other employee, or agent of the Company to whom any duty or power relating to the administration or interpretation of the Plan has been or will be delegated, against any cost or expense (including attorneys' fees) or liability (including any sum paid in settlement of a claim with the Board's approval) arising out of any act or omission to act concerning this Plan unless arising out of such person's own fraud or bad faith.
Limitations on Liability
(h) . The Board may from time to time establish one or more sub-plans under the Plan for purposes of satisfying applicable securities or tax laws of various jurisdictions. The Board shall establish such sub-plans by adopting supplements to the Plan containing (i) such limitations on the Board's discretion under the Plan as the Board deems necessary or desirable or (ii) such additional terms and conditions not otherwise inconsistent with the Plan as the Board shall deem necessary or desirable. All supplements adopted by the Board shall be deemed to be part of the Plan, but each supplement shall apply only to Participants within the affected jurisdiction and the Company shall not be required to provide copies of any supplement to Participants in any jurisdiction which is not the subject of such supplement.
Authorization of Sub-Plans
 
(i) . The provisions of the Plan and all Awards made hereunder shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, excluding choice-of-law principles of the law of such state that would require the application of the laws of a jurisdiction other than such state.
Governing Law
 


