FILE:AKAM/AKAM-8K-20111026160536.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 26, 2011, Akamai Technologies, Inc. ("Akamai" or the "Company") announced its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2011. The full text of the press release issued in connection with the announcement is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information provided under Item 2.02 of this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1) shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
(b) On October 24, 2011, David W. Kenny notified the Company of his resignation as President and a Director of the Company effective as of such date. On October 24, 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company voted to reduce the size of the Board of Directors to 11 members to fill the vacancy created by the resignation of Mr. Kenny.
(c) The Board of Directors also voted to elect Paul Sagan, currently Chief Executive Officer of Akamai, as President effective on October 24, 2011. Mr. Sagan will retain the titles of CEO and Director.
(e)
 
In connection with his resignation, Mr. Kenny and Akamai entered into a Separation Agreement setting forth certain matters related to his departure. During the period between October 24, 2011 and December 31, 2011, Mr. Kenny will serve as an advisor to Mr. Sagan. During such period, Mr. Kenny shall be paid at the same rate as his salary in effect prior to his resignation and continue to vest in outstanding equity awards held by him. He shall also be eligible to receive payment of a cash bonus for 2011 based on the percentage payout against corporate performance targets expected to be paid to the other executives of the Company under Akamai's 2011 executive cash bonus program. A copy of the Separation Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto.
 
On October 24, 2011, the Compensation Committee of the Board approved a new form agreement for restricted stock unit awards to be granted under the 2009 Plan; the grant agreement provides for time-based vesting with acceleration of vesting upon the earliest to occur of (i) a change of control of the Company, (ii) death or disability of the grantee, or (iii) the Company's termination of the grantee's employment without cause (the "New RSU Agreement Form"). The form is filed as Exhibit 10.2 hereto.
 
On October 24, 2011, the Compensation Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors of the Company approved the issuance of restricted stock units ("RSU") to the
 
following executive officers having the initial dollar value indicated: Paul Sagan, Chief Executive Officer ($7,000,000); Melanie Haratunian, Senior Vice President and General Counsel ($750,000); Robert Hughes, Executive Vice President  Global Sales, Services & Marketing ($3,000,000); and J. Donald Sherman, Chief Financial Officer ($2,500,000) (collectively, the "Executives"). The actual number of RSUs to be issued will be determined by dividing the initial dollar value by the closing sale price of one share of the Company's common stock on October 28, 2011, the second day following release of its third quarter 2011 earnings results (the "Grant Date"). Each RSU will be issued on the Grant Date and represents the right to receive one share of Akamai common stock upon vesting and vests 50% on the first anniversary of the Grant Date and 50% on the second anniversary of the Grant Date. The terms of the New RSU Agreement Form shall apply to such grants, and the description set forth above is qualified in its entirety by the text of such agreement.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit relating to Item 2.02 shall be deemed to be furnished, and not filed:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Separation and Release Agreement (the "Agreement") is made by and between Akamai Technologies, Inc. (the "Company"), and David Kenny (the "Executive") (collectively, the "Parties").
In consideration of the promises and conditions set forth herein, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and provided this Agreement is signed no later than October 24, 2011, the Parties agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have freely and voluntarily entered into this Agreement effective as of the date set forth below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To be signed and returned on, but not before, the Separation Date.
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
This Agreement evidences the grant by Akamai Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company") on                              (the "Grant Date") to                              (the "Participant") of                              restricted stock units of the Company (individually, an "RSU" and collectively, the "RSUs"), subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the 2009 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Each RSU represents the right to receive one share of the common stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company ("Common Stock") as provided in this Agreement. The shares of Common Stock that are issuable upon vesting of the RSUs are referred to in this Agreement as "Shares." Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings specified in the Plan.
 
(a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and provided that the Participant continues to provide services until the Vesting Date (as defined below), this award shall vest over a             -year period as follows:                                                                                                                                                                    . Each date on which RSUs vest may be referred to herein as the "Vesting Date."
(b) Except as otherwise provided in this Section 2, RSUs shall not continue to vest unless the Participant is, and has been at all times since the Grant Date, an employee, officer or director of, or consultant or advisor to, the Company.
(c) In the event that the Participant's employment with the Company ceases or is terminated (i) by reason of death or disability, (ii) by the Company for a reason other than "Cause" (as defined below), then 100% of all unvested RSUs shall vest in full as of the date of actual termination. For purposes of this Section 2, "Cause" shall mean unsatisfactory job performance (as determined by the Company), willful misconduct, fraud, gross negligence, disobedience or dishonesty.
(d) In the event that the Participant's employment with the Company is terminated by the Company for Cause or the Participant resigns, all unvested RSUs shall be forfeited effective as of the date of termination.
(e) For purposes of this Agreement, employment with the Company shall include employment with a parent, subsidiary, affiliate or division of the Company.
 
(a) The Company will distribute to the Participant (or to the Participant's estate in the event that his or her death occurs after a vesting date but before distribution of the corresponding Shares), the Shares of Common Stock represented by RSUs that vested on such vesting date as soon as administratively practicable after each vesting date (each such date of distribution is hereinafter referred to as a "Settlement Date") but in any event within the period ending on the later to occur of the date that is 75 days from the end of (i) Participant's tax year that includes the applicable Vesting Date or (ii) the Company's tax year that includes the applicable Vesting Date.
(b) The Company shall not be obligated to issue to the Participant the Shares upon the vesting of any RSU (or otherwise) unless the issuance and delivery of such Shares shall comply with all relevant provisions of law and other legal requirements including, without limitation, any applicable federal or state securities laws and the requirements of any stock exchange upon which shares of Common Stock may then be listed.
 
The Participant shall not sell, assign, transfer, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of, by operation of law or otherwise (collectively "transfer") any RSUs, or any interest therein, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
 
Except as set forth in the Plan, neither the Participant nor any person claiming under or through the Participant shall be, or have any rights or privileges of, a stockholder of the Company in respect of the Shares issuable pursuant to the RSUs granted hereunder until the Shares have been delivered to the Participant.
 
(a) This Agreement is subject to the provisions of the Plan, a copy of which is made available to the Participant with this Agreement.
(b) Upon the occurrence of an Acquisition Event (as defined in the Plan) that is not a Change in Control Event (as defined in the Plan), each RSU (whether vested or unvested) shall inure to the benefit of the Company's successor and shall apply to the cash, securities or other property which the Common Stock was converted into or exchanged for pursuant to such Acquisition Event in the same manner and to the same extent as they applied to the Common Stock subject to such RSU.
(c) Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control Event (regardless of whether such event also constitutes an Acquisition Event), each RSU shall become exercisable, realizable or vested in full.
 
(a) Regardless of any action the Company or the Participant's employer ("Employer") takes with respect to any or all income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related withholding ("Tax-Related Items"), the Participant acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items legally due by him or her is and remains the Participant's responsibility and that the Company and/or the Employer (1) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Restricted Stock Unit award, including the grant and vesting of the Restricted Stock Units, the receipt of cash or any dividends or dividend equivalents; and (2) do not commit to structure the terms of the award or any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units to reduce or eliminate the Participant's liability for Tax-Related Items.
(b) In the event that the Company, subsidiary, affiliate or division is required to withhold any Tax-Related Items as a result of the award or vesting of the Restricted Stock Units, or the receipt of cash or any dividends or dividend equivalents, the Participant shall pay or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company, subsidiary, affiliate or division to satisfy all withholding and
 
payment on account obligations of the Company, subsidiary, affiliate or division. The obligations of the Company under this Agreement, including the delivery of shares upon vesting, shall be conditioned on compliance by the Participant with this Section 7. In this regard, the Participant authorizes the Company and/or the Employer to withhold all applicable Tax-Related Items legally payable by the Participant from his or her wages or other cash compensation paid to the Participant by the Company and/or the Employer. Alternatively, or in addition, if permissible under local law, the Company may withhold in shares of Common Stock an amount of shares sufficient to cover the Participant's tax liability or require Participant to enter into a sale-to-cover agreement effected through a brokerage firm selected by the Company.
(c) The Participant will pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold as a result of the Participant's participation in the Plan or the Participant's award that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described.
 
(a) . The Participant acknowledges and agrees that the vesting of the RSUs pursuant to Section 2 hereof is earned only by continuing service as an employee at the will of the Company (not through the act of being hired or purchasing shares hereunder). The Participant further acknowledges and agrees that the transactions contemplated hereunder and the vesting schedule set forth herein do not constitute an express or implied promise of continued engagement as an employee or consultant for the vesting period, for any period, or at all.
No Rights to Employment
(b) . The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, and each other provision of this Agreement shall be severable and enforceable to the extent permitted by law.
Severability
(c) . Any provision for the benefit of the Company contained in this Agreement may be waived, either generally or in any particular instance, by the Board of Directors of the Company.
Waiver
(d) . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company and the Participant and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, legal representatives, successors and assigns, subject to the restrictions on transfer set forth in Section 4 of this Agreement.
Binding Effect
(e) . All notices required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and deemed effectively given upon personal delivery or five days after deposit in the United States Post Office, by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the other party hereto at the address shown beneath his or its respective signature to this Agreement, or at such other address or addresses as either party shall designate to the other in accordance with this Section 8(e).
Notice
(f) . Whenever the context may require, any pronouns used in this Agreement shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine or neuter forms, and the singular form of nouns and pronouns shall include the plural, and vice versa.
Pronouns
(g) . This Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire agreement between the parties, and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, relating to the subject matter of this Agreement. In the event of any conflict between this Agreement and the Plan, the Plan shall control. In the event of any ambiguity in this Agreement, or any matters as to which this Agreement is silent, the Plan shall govern including, without limitation, the provisions thereof pursuant to which the Board of Directors (or a committee thereof) has the power,
Entire Agreement; Conflicts and Interpretation
 
among other things, to (i) interpret the Plan, (ii) prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan and (iii) make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.
(h) . The Company may modify, amend or waive the terms of this prospectively or retroactively, but no such modification, amendment or waiver shall impair the rights of the Participant without his or her consent, except as required by applicable law, NASDAQ or stock exchange rules, tax rules or accounting rules. Any provision for the benefit of the Company contained in this Agreement may be waived, either generally or in any particular instance, by the Board of Directors (or a committee thereof) of the Company. The waiver by either party of compliance with any provision of this Agreement shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any other provision of this Agreement, or of any subsequent breach by such party of a provision of this Agreement.
Amendment
(i) . This Agreement shall be construed, interpreted and enforced in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Delaware without regard to any applicable conflicts of laws.
Governing Law
(j) . The right of the Participant to receive Common Stock pursuant to this Agreement is an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company. The Participant shall have no rights under this Agreement other than those of an unsecured general creditor of the Company.
Unfunded Rights
(k) . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to the RSUs awarded under and participation in the Plan or future options that may be awarded under the Plan by electronic means or to request the Participant's consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. The Participant hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and, if requested, to agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.
Electronic Delivery
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the day and year first above written. Electronic acceptance of this Agreement pursuant to the Company's instructions to Participant (including through an online acceptance process managed by the Company's agent) is acceptable.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Akamai Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ: AKAM), the leading cloud platform for helping enterprises provide secure, high-performing user experiences on any device, anywhere, today reported financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2011. Revenue for third quarter 2011 was $281.9 million, an 11 percent increase over third quarter 2010 revenue of $253.6 million, and a 2 percent increase over second quarter 2011 revenue of $277.0 million.
CAMBRIDGE, Mass.  October 26, 2011 
Net income in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP, for the third quarter of 2011 was $42.3 million, or $0.23 per diluted share, a 6 percent increase from third quarter 2010 GAAP net income of $39.7 million, or $0.21 per diluted share, and a 12 percent decrease from second quarter 2011 GAAP net income of $47.9 million, or $0.25 per diluted share.
The Company generated normalized net income* of $63.4 million, or $0.34 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2011, down 1 percent from third quarter 2010 normalized net income of $64.2 million, or $0.34 per diluted share, and down 4 percent from second quarter 2011 normalized net income of $65.8 million, or $0.35 per diluted share. (*See Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for definitions.)
"We are pleased with Akamai's performance in the third quarter, as more customers adopted the Akamai Platform for their online businesses," said Paul Sagan, president and CEO of Akamai. "We have continued to develop the platform of choice for businesses seeking to capitalize on opportunities in mobile, cloud, security, and video, as well as manage the risks of the hyperconnected world."
Adjusted EBITDA* for the third quarter of 2011 was $122.4 million, up 7 percent from $114.1 million in the third quarter of 2010 and down 3 percent from $126.2 million in the prior quarter. Adjusted EBITDA margin* for the third quarter of 2011 was 43 percent, down 2 points from the same period last year. (*See Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for definitions.)
Cash from operations was $116.3 million in the third quarter of 2011, or 41 percent of revenue. At the end of the third quarter of 2011, the Company had approximately $1.2 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities.
Sales through resellers and sales outside the United States accounted for 19 percent and 29 percent, respectively, of revenue for the third quarter 2011.
Akamai also announced today that David Kenny resigned as president and director of the Company.
"As a director, David was a strong advocate for innovation, mobile capabilities and global expansion. As president, he helped to re-align the organization to deliver faster on those critical strategies," Mr. Sagan said. "Thanks in part to David's leadership, we have established a strong path for growth that we intend to follow for many years to come."
Mr. Kenny said, "It has been a privilege to serve Akamai as a director and to be a part of the management team to help Paul strengthen the Company's foundation for future growth. While I now want to return to my first passion of pursuing emerging opportunities on the consumer Internet, I will miss the great people at Akamai and their relentless pursuit of excellence in everything they do. I believe Akamai is well-positioned to capture the opportunities ahead in the enterprise marketplace."
Mr. Kenny, who will serve as a consultant to the Company on business strategy, joined Akamai as president in September 2010 after previously serving as a member of the Company's Board of Directors for three years.
Akamai also announced today that the Board re-appointed Mr. Sagan as president, a title that he will hold in addition to CEO and director.
Share Repurchase Program
During the third quarter of 2011, under a share repurchase program that was approved by the Board of Directors in April 2011 and expanded in August 2011, the Company repurchased approximately 6.8 million shares of its common stock for $155.1 million, an average price of $22.75 per share. As of September 30, 2011, the Company had repurchased 15.2 million shares of its common stock for $406 million, at an average price of $26.82 per share, since the commencement of the current repurchase program.
As of September 30, 2011, the Company had approximately 179.5 million shares of common stock outstanding.
Quarterly Conference Call
Akamai will host a conference call today at 4:30 p.m. ET that can be accessed through 1-800-573-4754 (or 1-617-224-4325 for international calls) and using passcode No. 35896882. A live Webcast of the call may be accessed at in the Investor section. In addition, a replay of the call will be available for one week following the conference through the Akamai Website or by calling 1-888-286-8010 (or 1-617-801-6888 for international calls) and using passcode No. 90643566.
www.akamai.com
About Akamai
Akamai is the leading cloud platform for helping enterprises provide secure, high-performing user experiences on any device, anywhere. At the core of the Company's solutions is the Akamai Intelligent Platform providing extensive reach, coupled with unmatched reliability, security, visibility and expertise. Akamai removes the complexities of connecting the increasingly mobile world, supporting 24/7 consumer demand, and enabling enterprises to securely leverage the cloud. To learn more about how Akamai is accelerating the pace of innovation in a hyperconnected world, please visit and follow @Akamai on Twitter.
www.akamai.com
Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
*Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In addition to providing financial measurements based on generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP), Akamai has historically provided additional financial metrics that are not prepared in accordance with GAAP (non-GAAP). Legislative and regulatory pronouncements discourage the use of and emphasis on non-GAAP financial metrics and require companies to explain why non-GAAP financial metrics are relevant to management and investors. We believe that the inclusion of these non-GAAP financial measures in this press release and our earnings call helps investors to gain a meaningful understanding of our past performance and future prospects, consistent with how management measures and forecasts our performance, especially when comparing such results to previous periods or forecasts. Our management uses these non-GAAP measures, in addition to GAAP financial measures, as the basis for measuring our core operating performance and comparing such performance to that of prior periods and to the performance of our competitors. These measures are also used by management in its financial and operational decision-making. There are limitations associated with reliance on these non-GAAP financial metrics because they are specific to our operations and financial performance, which may make comparisons with other companies' financial results more challenging. By providing both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, we believe that investors are able to compare our GAAP results to those of other companies while also gaining a better understanding of our operating performance as evaluated by management.
Akamai defines "Adjusted EBITDA" as net income, before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization of tangible and intangible assets, stock-based compensation expense, amortization of capitalized stock-based compensation, restructuring charges and benefits, acquisition related costs and benefits, certain gains and losses on investments, foreign exchange gains and losses, loss on early extinguishment of debt and gains on legal settlements. Akamai considers Adjusted EBITDA to be an important indicator of the Company's operational strength and performance of its business and a good measure of the Company's historical operating trend.
Adjusted EBITDA eliminates items that are either not part of the Company's core operations, such as investment gains and losses, foreign exchange gains and losses, early debt extinguishment and net interest income, or that do not require a cash outlay, such as stock-based compensation. Adjusted EBITDA also excludes depreciation and amortization expense, which is based on the Company's estimate of the useful life of tangible and intangible assets. These estimates could vary from actual performance of the asset, are based on the historical cost incurred to build out the Company's deployed network, and may not be indicative of current or future capital expenditures.
Akamai defines "Adjusted EBITDA margin" as a percentage of Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenues. Akamai considers Adjusted EBITDA margin to be an indicator of the Company's operating trend and performance of its business in relation to its revenue growth.
Akamai defines "capital expenditures" or "capex" as purchases of property and equipment, capitalization of internal-use software development costs and capitalization of stock-based compensation. Capital expenditures or capex are disclosed in Akamai's consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Akamai defines "normalized net income" as net income before amortization of other intangible assets, stock-based compensation expense, amortization of capitalized stock-based compensation, restructuring charges and benefits, acquisition related costs and benefits, certain gains and losses on investments and loss on early extinguishment of debt. Akamai considers normalized net income to be another important indicator of the overall performance of the Company because it eliminates the effects of events that are either not part of the Company's core operations or are non-cash.
Akamai defines "normalized net income per share" as normalized net income, plus interest add-back for diluted share calculation, divided by the basic weighted average or diluted common shares outstanding used in GAAP net income per share calculations. Akamai considers normalized net income per share to be another important indicator of overall performance of the Company because it eliminates the effect of non-cash items.
Adjusted EBITDA and normalized net income should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, the Company's operating income and net income, as well as other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP.
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In accordance with the requirements of Regulation G issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company is presenting the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and reconciling the non-GAAP financial metrics to the comparable GAAP measures.
 
Akamai Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
This release contains information about future expectations, plans and prospects of Akamai's management that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements concerning the anticipated growth and development of our business and the markets in which we operate. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including, but not limited to, failure to maintain the prices we charge for our services, loss of significant customers, failure of the markets we address or plan to address to develop as we expect or at all, inability to increase our revenue at the same rate as in the past and keep our expenses from increasing at a greater rate than our revenues, changes in estimates we make about tax liabilities and other contingencies, a failure of Akamai's services or network infrastructure, delay in developing or failure to develop new service offerings or functionalities, and if developed, lack of market acceptance of such service offerings and functionalities, and other factors that are discussed in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and other documents periodically filed with the SEC.
In addition, the statements in this press release represent Akamai's expectations and beliefs as of the date of this press release. Akamai anticipates that subsequent events and developments may cause these expectations and beliefs to change. However, while Akamai may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, it specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing Akamai's expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to the date of this press release.


