FILE:AKAM/AKAM-8K-20110427160748.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 27, 2011, Akamai Technologies, Inc. (the "Company") announced its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2011. The full text of the press release issued in connection with the announcement is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information in Item 2.02 of this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1) shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
As previously reported on the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 19, 2011, Pamela Craig was appointed as a director of the Company effective as of April 1, 2011. On the recommendation of its Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the Company's Board of Directors has appointed Ms. Craig to serve on the Audit Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors effective as of May 1, 2011.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit relating to Item 2.02 shall be deemed to be furnished, and not filed:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE
Contacts:
 
 
 
 
  Akamai Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ: AKAM), the leading provider of cloud optimization services, today reported financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2011. Revenue for the first quarter of 2011 was $276.0 million, a 15 percent increase over first quarter 2010 revenue of $240.0 million.
CAMBRIDGE, Mass.
April 27, 2011
Net income in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP, for the first quarter of 2011 was $50.6 million, or $0.26 per diluted share, a 24 percent increase from first quarter 2010 GAAP net income of $40.9 million, or $0.22 per diluted share, and a 4 percent decrease from fourth quarter 2010 GAAP net income of $52.5 million, or $0.27 per diluted share.
The Company generated normalized net income* of $72.2 million, or $0.38 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2011, a 9 percent increase over first quarter 2010 normalized net income of $66.0 million, or $0.35 per diluted share , and a 6 percent decrease from the prior quarter normalized net income of $76.5 million, or $0.40 per diluted share. (*See Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for definitions.)
"Continued demand for our value-added solutions, now comprising almost 60 percent of our business, drove our strong results in the first quarter," said Paul Sagan, CEO of Akamai. "We have built a portfolio of cloud computing solutions that leverages our intelligent Internet platform and is designed to address the diverse needs of businesses on the Web."
Adjusted EBITDA* for the first quarter of 2011 was $129.2 million, consistent with the prior quarter, and up from $118.1 million in the first quarter of 2010. Adjusted EBITDA margin for the first quarter was 47 percent, up 2 points from the prior quarter and down 2 points from the same period last year. (*See Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for definitions.)
Cash from operations was $88.5 million in the first quarter of 2011, or 32 percent of revenue. At the end of the first quarter of 2011, the Company had approximately $1.26 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities.
Sales through resellers and sales outside the United States accounted for 18 percent and 30 percent, respectively, of revenue for the first quarter of 2011.
The Company also announced that its Board of Directors has authorized a second $150 million expansion of its share repurchase program, which is expected to be funded by cash from operations. The Company's goal for this program, which will extend for 12 months beginning in May 2011, is to offset dilution created by its equity compensation programs.
The timing and amount of any shares repurchased will be determined by the Company's management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. Repurchases may also be made under a Rule 10b5-1 plan, which would permit the Company to repurchase shares when the Company might otherwise be precluded from doing so under insider trading laws. The Company may choose to suspend or discontinue the repurchase program at any time but cannot carry over unused authorization amounts to future periods.
During the first quarter of 2011, the Company repurchased approximately 1 million shares of common stock for an aggregate of $42.8 million at an average price of $41.60 per share. As of March 31, 2011, the Company had repurchased a total of 6.8 million shares for an aggregate of $201.1 million at an average price of $29.53 per share, under the share repurchase program that was initially approved by the Board of Directors in April 2009.
As of March 31, 2011, the Company had approximately 186.9 million shares of common stock outstanding.
Quarterly Conference Call
Akamai will host a conference call today at 4:30 p.m. ET that can be accessed through 1-866-730-5767 (or 1-857-350-1591for international calls) and using passcode No. 76371792. A live Webcast of the call may be accessed at in the Investor section. In addition, a replay of the call will be available for one week following the conference through the Akamai Website or by calling 1-888-286-8010 (or 1-617-801-6888 for international calls) and using passcode No. 95542558.
www.akamai.com
About Akamai
Akamai provides market-leading, cloud-based services for optimizing Web and mobile content and applications, online HD video, and secure e-commerce. Combining highly-distributed, energy-efficient computing with intelligent software, Akamai's global platform is transforming the cloud into a more viable place to inform, entertain, advertise, transact and collaborate. To learn how the world's leading enterprises are optimizing their business in the cloud, please visit and follow @Akamai on Twitter.
www.akamai.com
Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
*Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In addition to providing financial measurements based on generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP), Akamai has historically provided additional financial metrics that are not prepared in accordance with GAAP (non-GAAP). Legislative and regulatory changes discourage the use of and emphasis on non-GAAP financial metrics and require companies to explain why non-GAAP financial metrics are relevant to management and investors. We believe that the inclusion of these non-GAAP financial measures in this press release helps investors to gain a meaningful understanding of our past performance and future prospects, consistent with how management measures and forecasts our performance, especially when comparing such results to previous periods or forecasts. Our management uses these non-GAAP measures, in addition to GAAP financial measures, as the basis for measuring our core operating performance and comparing such performance to that of prior periods and to the performance of our competitors. These measures are also used by management in its financial and operational decision-making. There are limitations associated with reliance on these non-GAAP financial metrics because they are specific to our operations and financial performance, which may make comparisons with other companies' financial results more challenging. By providing both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, we believe that investors are able to compare our GAAP results to those of other companies while also gaining a better understanding of our operating performance as evaluated by management.
Akamai defines "Adjusted EBITDA" as net income, before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization of tangible and intangible assets, stock-based compensation expense, amortization of capitalized stock-based compensation, restructuring charges and benefits, acquisition related costs and benefits, certain gains and losses on investments, foreign exchange gains and losses, loss on early extinguishment of debt and gains on legal settlements. Akamai considers Adjusted EBITDA to be an important indicator of the Company's operational strength and performance of its business and a good measure of the Company's historical operating trend.
Adjusted EBITDA eliminates items that are either not part of the Company's core operations, such as investment gains and losses, foreign exchange gains and losses, early debt extinguishment and net interest income, or do not require a cash outlay, such as stock-based compensation. Adjusted EBITDA also excludes depreciation and amortization expense, which is based on the Company's estimate of the useful life of tangible and intangible assets. These estimates could vary from actual performance of the asset, are based on the historical cost incurred to build out the Company's deployed network, and may not be indicative of current or future capital expenditures.
Akamai defines "Adjusted EBITDA margin" as a percentage of Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenues. Akamai considers Adjusted EBITDA margin to be an indicator of the Company's operating trend and performance of its business in relation to its revenue growth.
Akamai defines "capital expenditures" or "capex" as purchases of property and equipment, capitalization of internal-use software development costs and capitalization of stock-based compensation. Capital expenditures or capex are disclosed in Akamai's consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Akamai defines "normalized net income" as net income before amortization of other intangible assets, stock-based compensation expense, amortization of capitalized stock-based compensation, restructuring charges and benefits, acquisition related costs and benefits, certain gains and losses on investments and loss on early extinguishment of debt. Akamai considers normalized net income to be another important indicator of the overall performance of the Company because it eliminates the effects of events that are either not part of the Company's core operations or are non-cash.
Akamai defines "normalized net income per share" as normalized net income, plus interest add-back for diluted share calculation, divided by the basic weighted average or diluted common shares outstanding used in GAAP net income per share calculations. Akamai considers normalized net income per share to be another important indicator of overall performance of the Company because it eliminates the effect of a non-cash item.
Adjusted EBITDA and normalized net income should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, the Company's operating income and net income, as well as other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP.
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In accordance with the requirements of Regulation G issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company is presenting the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and reconciling the non-GAAP financial metrics to the comparable GAAP measures.
 
Akamai Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
This release contains information about future expectations, plans and prospects of Akamai's management that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements concerning the anticipated growth and development of our business and the markets in which we operate. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including, but not limited to, failure to maintain the prices we charge for our services, loss of significant customers, failure to increase our revenue and keep our expenses consistent with revenues, inability to continue to generate positive cash flow, the effects of any attempts to intentionally disrupt our services or network by unauthorized users or others, failure to have available sufficient transmission capacity, failure of our stock repurchase program to offset a significant amount of dilution created by our equity compensation programs, a failure of Akamai's services or network infrastructure, delay in developing or failure to develop new service offerings or functionalities, and if developed, lack of market acceptance of such service offerings and functionalities, and other factors that are discussed in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and other documents periodically filed with the SEC.
In addition, the statements in this press release represent Akamai's expectations and beliefs as of the date of this press release. Akamai anticipates that subsequent events and developments may cause these expectations and beliefs to change. However, while Akamai may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, it specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing Akamai's expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to the date of this press release.


