FILE:AKAM/AKAM-8K-20120208160553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 8, 2012, Akamai Technologies, Inc. ("Akamai" or the "Company") announced its financial results for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. The full text of the press release issued in connection with the announcement is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information provided under Item 2.02 of this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1) shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
On February 3, 2012, J. Donald Sherman notified the Company of his resignation as Chief Financial Officer of the Company effective as of the end of the day on February 29, 2012.
On February 6, 2012, Akamai's Board of Directors elected James Benson, 45, to the position of Chief Financial Officer of the Company effective as of March 1, 2012.
Mr. Benson has been Akamai's Senior Vice President  Finance since September 2009. Prior to joining the Company, he was Vice President, Finance/Operations & CFO  Americas Technology Solutions Group at Hewlett-Packard Company, a technology company, since 2004.
On February 6, 2012, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") also approved Mr. Benson's compensation arrangements, which are summarized below.
Mr. Benson shall initially have a base salary of $373,000 and be eligible to participate in the Company's executive cash bonus program. For 2012, he will be eligible to receive a pro rata bonus of up to 75% of his base salary, based on Akamai's financial achievement and his individual performance objectives.
The Compensation Committee approved granting Mr. Benson stock options to purchase shares of common stock of the Company under the Akamai Technologies, Inc. 2009 Stock Incentive Plan. The options will be issued on February 10, 2012. The aggregate number of shares of common stock of the Company subject to the stock options will be determined so as to make the value of such stock options equal to $312,500 determined under a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The exercise price for the stock options will be the closing sale price of Akamai's common stock as reported on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the grant date. The options will vest in accordance with the following schedule: 25% vest on the first anniversary of the Start Date and the remaining 75% vest over the ensuing three years in equal quarterly installments of 6.25%. The options are subject to the terms of the Company's standard form of non-statutory stock option agreement previously filed on January 18, 2012 with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Mr. Benson was also granted two sets of restricted stock units representing the right to receive one share of Akamai common stock upon vesting ("RSUs"). The first set of RSUs, having an initial value of $625,000, vest over three years in 33% annual installments on the first, second and third anniversaries of the date of grant. The second set of RSUs, having an initial maximum grant value of $625,000, are performance-vested RSUs that will only become issuable to the extent that (i) the Company exceeds specified normalized EPS target for fiscal year 2012 and (ii) Mr. Benson achieves specified mission critical goals established for him for 2012 ("Mission Critical Goals"). Each of such components is equally weighted.
If Akamai achieves 94.9% of the normalized EPS target, then 25% of the maximum issuable number of RSUs attributable to the normalized EPS component will become issuable. If Akamai achieves 100% of such target, then 50% of the maximum grant value attributable to the normalized EPS component will become issuable. If Akamai achieves 105.1% or more of such target, then 100% of the maximum grant value attributable to the normalized EPS component will become issuable. Pro-rata amounts will be issuable for performance between 94.9% and 100% and 100% and 105.1%, respectively. With respect to Mission Critical Goals, achievement will be calculated based on a determination by the Chief Executive Officer as to whether Mr. Benson has (i) partially achieved the Mission Critical Goals; (ii) achieved the Mission Critical Goals at the target level, or (iii) achieved the Mission Critical Goals at an outstanding level.
To the extent performance-vested RSUs become issuable, they will vest in two equal 50% installments on the second and third anniversaries of the date of grant. The foregoing description of the RSUs is qualified in its entirety by the text of the relevant RSU agreements, each of which was previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 18, 2012.
It is also expected that Mr. Benson will enter into a change of control and severance agreement consistent with the form previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 2, 2009 and will be eligible to participate in the Executive Severance Plan which was previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 9, 2011.
Under the Severance Plan, participants who are terminated for any reason other than "cause" (as defined in the Severance Plan) and have signed a separation and release agreement acceptable to Akamai are entitled to:
 
 
 
Our standard change of control and severance agreement for executives provides that if the executive is employed by the Company as of the date of a Change of Control Event (as defined therein); and within one year of the Change of Control Event the executive's employment is terminated by the surviving entity for any reason other than for Cause (as defined therein), including the executive's voluntary termination for Good Reason (as defined therein), then the executive shall be entitled to:
 
 
 
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit relating to Item 2.02 shall be deemed to be furnished, and not filed:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
  Akamai Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ: AKAM), the leading cloud platform for helping enterprises provide secure, high-performing user experiences on any device, anywhere, today reported financial results for the fourth quarter and full-year ended December 31, 2011. Revenue for the fourth quarter 2011 was $324 million, a 15 percent increase over third quarter revenue of $282 million, and a 14 percent increase over fourth quarter 2010 revenue of $285 million. Total revenue for 2011 was $1,159 million, a 13 percent increase over 2010 revenue of $1,024 million.
CAMBRIDGE, Mass.
February 8, 2012
"Akamai posted record results in the fourth quarter, with accelerated growth across our business." said Paul Sagan, President and CEO of Akamai. "We believe our Content Delivery and Cloud Infrastructure solutions are stronger than ever, and we look forward to further enhancing our Cloud Infrastructure portfolio with the completed acquisition of Blaze and the planned acquisition of Cotendo, which may close as early as the first quarter."
Net income in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP, for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $60 million, or $0.33 per diluted share. Full-year GAAP net income for 2011 was $201 million, or $1.07 per diluted share.
The Company generated normalized net income* of $83 million, or $0.45 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2011, a 31 percent increase over the prior quarter's normalized net income of $63 million, or $0.34 per diluted share, and a 9 percent increase over fourth quarter 2010 normalized net income of $77 million, or $0.40 per diluted share. Full-year normalized net income grew 5 percent year-over-year to $285 million, or $1.52 per diluted share. (*See Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for definitions.)
Adjusted EBITDA* for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $148 million, up from $122 million in the prior quarter, and $129 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. Adjusted EBITDA margin for the fourth quarter was 46 percent, up 3 points from the prior quarter and up 1 point from the same period last year. For the full year, adjusted EBITDA was $525 million, up from $474 million in 2010. Full-year adjusted EBITDA margin in 2011 was at 45 percent, down one percent from 2010. (*See Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for definitions.)
Full-year cash from operations was $453 million, or 39 percent of revenue, consistent with the prior year. At year end, the Company had over $1.2 billion of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities.
Sales through resellers and sales outside the United States accounted for 19 percent and 28 percent, respectively, of revenue for the fourth quarter 2011.
Share Repurchase Program
During the fourth quarter of 2011, under a share repurchase program that was approved by the Board of Directors in April 2011 and expanded in August 2011, the Company repurchased approximately 3 million shares of its common stock for $76 million, an average price of $26.38 per share. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had repurchased 12 million shares of its common stock for $325 million, at an average price of $26.45 per share, during fiscal 2011.
The Company had approximately 178 million shares of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2011.
Quarterly Conference Call
Akamai will host a conference call today at 4:30 p.m. ET that can be accessed through 1-866-831-6247 (or 1-617-213-8856 for international calls) and using passcode No. 92823340. A live Webcast of the call may be accessed at in the Investor section. In addition, a replay of the call will be available for one week following the conference through the Akamai Website or by calling 1-888-286-8010 (or 1-617-801-6888 for international calls) and using passcode No. 69462788.
www.akamai.com
About Akamai
Akamai is the leading cloud platform for helping enterprises provide secure, high-performing user experiences on any device, anywhere. At the core of the Company's solutions is the Akamai Intelligent Platform providing extensive reach, coupled with unmatched reliability, security, visibility and expertise. Akamai removes the complexities of connecting the increasingly mobile world, supporting 24/7 consumer demand, and enabling enterprises to securely leverage the cloud. To learn more about how Akamai is accelerating the pace of innovation in a hyperconnected world, please visit or , and follow @Akamai on Twitter.
www.akamai.com
blogs.akamai.com
 
 
 
 
 
*Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In addition to providing financial measurements based on generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP), Akamai has historically provided additional financial metrics that are not prepared in accordance with GAAP (non-GAAP). Legislative and regulatory pronouncements discourage the use of and emphasis on non-GAAP financial metrics and require companies to explain why non-GAAP financial metrics are relevant to management and investors. We believe that the inclusion of these non-GAAP financial measures in this press release and our earnings call helps investors to gain a meaningful understanding of our past performance and future prospects, consistent with how management measures and forecasts our performance, especially when comparing such results to previous periods or forecasts. Our management uses these non-GAAP measures, in addition to GAAP financial measures, as the basis for measuring our core operating performance and comparing such performance to that of prior periods and to the performance of our competitors. These measures are also used by management in its financial and operational decision-making. There are limitations associated with reliance on these non-GAAP financial metrics because they are specific to our operations and financial performance, which may make comparisons with other companies' financial results more challenging. By providing both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, we believe that investors are able to compare our GAAP results to those of other companies while also gaining a better understanding of our operating performance as evaluated by management.
Akamai defines "Adjusted EBITDA" as net income, before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization of tangible and intangible assets, stock-based compensation expense, amortization of capitalized stock-based compensation, restructuring charges and benefits, acquisition related costs and benefits, certain gains and losses on investments, foreign exchange gains and losses, loss on early extinguishment of debt and gains and losses on legal settlements. Akamai considers Adjusted EBITDA to be an important indicator of the Company's operational strength and performance of its business and a good measure of the Company's historical operating trend.
Adjusted EBITDA eliminates items that are either not part of the Company's core operations, such as investment gains and losses, foreign exchange gains and losses, early debt extinguishment and net interest income, or that do not require a cash outlay, such as stock-based compensation. Adjusted EBITDA also excludes depreciation and amortization expense, which is based on the Company's estimate of the useful life of tangible and intangible assets. These estimates could vary from actual performance of the asset, are based on the historical cost incurred to build out the Company's deployed network, and may not be indicative of current or future capital expenditures.
Akamai defines "Adjusted EBITDA margin" as a percentage of Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenues. Akamai considers Adjusted EBITDA margin to be an indicator of the Company's operating trend and performance of its business in relation to its revenue growth.
Akamai defines "capital expenditures" or "capex" as purchases of property and equipment, capitalization of internal-use software development costs and capitalization of stock-based compensation. Capital expenditures or capex are disclosed in Akamai's consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Akamai defines "normalized net income" as net income before amortization of other intangible assets, stock-based compensation expense, amortization of capitalized stock-based compensation, restructuring charges and benefits, acquisition related costs and benefits, certain gains and losses on investments, loss on early extinguishment of debt and gains and losses on legal settlements. Akamai considers normalized net income to be another important indicator of the overall performance of the Company because it eliminates the effects of events that are either not part of the Company's core operations or are non-cash.
Akamai defines "normalized net income per share" as normalized net income, plus interest add-back for diluted share calculation, divided by the basic weighted average or diluted common shares outstanding used in GAAP net income per share calculations. Akamai considers normalized net income per share to be another important indicator of overall performance of the Company because it eliminates the effect of non-cash items. Adjusted EBITDA and normalized net income should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, the Company's operating income and net income, as well as other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP.
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In accordance with the requirements of Regulation G issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company is presenting the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and reconciling the non-GAAP financial metrics to the comparable GAAP measures.
 
Akamai Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
This release contains information about future expectations, plans and prospects of Akamai's management that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements concerning the closing of our proposed acquisition of Cotendo Inc. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including, but not limited to, inability to close the Cotendo acquisition within the anticipated time frame or at all, failure to maintain the prices we charge for our services, loss of significant customers, failure of the markets we address or plan to address to develop as we expect or at all, inability to increase our revenue at the same rate as in the past and keep our expenses from increasing at a greater rate than our revenues, changes in estimates we make about tax liabilities and other contingencies, a failure of Akamai's services or network infrastructure, delay in developing or failure to develop new service offerings or functionalities, and if developed, lack of market acceptance of such service offerings and functionalities particularly our content delivery and cloud infrastructure solutions, and other factors that are discussed in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and other documents periodically filed with the SEC.
In addition, the statements in this press release represent Akamai's expectations and beliefs as of the date of this press release. Akamai anticipates that subsequent events and developments may cause these expectations and beliefs to change. However, while Akamai may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, it specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing Akamai's expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to the date of this press release.


