Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The "Financial Review" Section which is set forth on pages F 3 through F 19 of the Financial Appendix to TSYS Proxy Statement which includes the information encompassed within "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," is specifically incorporated herein by reference. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Foreign Exchange Risk. TSYS is exposed to foreign exchange risk because it has revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies including Euro, British Pound, Mexican Peso, Canadian Dollar and Japanese Yen. These currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at current exchange rates, except for revenues, costs and expenses, and net income, which are translated at the average exchange rate for each reporting period. Net exchange gains or losses resulting from the translation of assets and liabilities of TSYS foreign operations, net of tax, are accumulated in a separate section of shareholders equity titled accumulated other comprehensive loss. The amount of other comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2002 was $4,508,235. The amount of other comprehensive loss for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000 was $1,841,657 and $159,973, respectively. Currently, TSYS does not use financial instruments to hedge its exposure to exchange rate changes. The carrying value of the assets of its foreign operations in Europe, Mexico, Canada and Japan was approximately (in U.S. dollars) $71.7 million, $3.4 million, $15,000 and $7.6 million, respectively, at December 31, 2002. Interest Rate Risk. TSYS is also exposed to interest rate risk associated with the investing of available cash and the lease on its campus facilities. TSYS invests available cash in conservative short term instruments and is primarily subject to changes in the prime rate. The payments under the operating lease arrangement of the campus facilities are tied to the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"). TSYS locks into interest rates for six month intervals. The extent that rates change in a six month period represents TSYS exposure. The following represents the potential effect on operating income of hypothetical shifts in the LIBOR of plus or minus 50 basis points, 100 basis points and 150 points over a 12 month period. 7 Effect of Basis Point Change Increase in basis point of Decrease in basis point of + 50 + 100 + 150 + 50 + 100 + 150 Effect on operating income $ (147,000) (295,000) (442,000) 147,000 295,000 442,000 TSYS renewed the lease in November 2002 for a period of up to 12 months. However, TSYS has the option to either renew the lease subject to prevailing market rates or purchase the property at the original cost of the property. As such, TSYS could have a future interest rate risk associated with a future obligation with respect to the corporate campus. TSYS can withdraw from the lease agreement by providing 60 days written notice. Concentration of credit risk. TSYS works to maintain a large and diverse customer base across various industries to minimize the credit risk of any one customer to TSYS accounts receivable amounts. In addition, TSYS performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and suppliers financial condition. Concentration of client base. A significant amount of TSYS revenues is derived from long term contracts with large clients, including certain major customers. Processing contracts with large clients, representing a significant portion of TSYS total revenues, generally provide for discounts on certain services based on the size and activity of clients portfolios. Therefore, electronic payment processing revenues and the related margins are influenced by the client mix relative to the size of client card portfolios, as well as the number and activity of individual cardholder accounts processed for each client. Consolidation among financial institutions has resulted in an increasingly concentrated client base, which results in a changing client mix toward larger clients. TSYS does have two major customers that account for a large portion of its revenues, which subjects it to credit risk. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages F 38 through F 40 of the Financial Appendix to TSYS Proxy Statement which is specifically incorporated herein by reference for a description of major customers. In addition to its two major customers, TSYS has other large clients representing a significant portion of its total revenues. The loss of any one of TSYS large clients could have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 
 
