Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The "Financial Overview" and "Financial Review" Sections which are set forth on pages F 3 through F 21 of the Financial Appendix to TSYS Proxy Statement which includes the information encompassed within "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," are specifically incorporated herein by reference. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Foreign Exchange Risk. TSYS is exposed to foreign exchange risk because it has revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies including Euro, British Pound, Mexican Peso, Canadian Dollar and Japanese Yen. These currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at current exchange rates, except for revenues, costs and expenses, and net income, which are translated at the average exchange rate for each reporting period. Net exchange gains or losses resulting from the translation of assets and liabilities of TSYS foreign operations, net of tax, are accumulated in a separate section of shareholders equity titled accumulated other comprehensive loss. The amount of other comprehensive income for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 was $7,261,407 and $4,508,235, respectively. The amount of other comprehensive loss for the year ended December 31, 2001 was $1,841,657. Currently, TSYS does not use financial instruments to hedge its exposure to exchange rate changes. The carrying value of the assets of its foreign operations in Europe, Mexico, Canada and Japan was approximately (in U.S. dollars) $122.1 million, $4.0 million, $172,000 and $10.5 million, respectively, at December 31, 2003. Interest Rate Risk. TSYS is also exposed to interest rate risk associated with the investing of available cash and any outstanding balance on the long term line of credit it has with a banking affiliate of Synovus. TSYS invests available cash in conservative short term instruments and is primarily subject to changes in the prime rate. On June 30, 2003, TSYS obtained a $45.0 million long term line of credit from a banking affiliate of Synovus. The line is an automatic draw down facility. The interest rate for the line of credit is the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 150 basis points. In addition, there is a charge of 15 basis points on any funds unused. The line of credit is unsecured debt and includes covenants requiring the Company to maintain certain minimum financial ratios. At December 31, 2003, TSYS did not have an outstanding balance on the line of credit and was in compliance with all covenants. As the LIBOR rate changes, TSYS will be subject to interest rate risk. Concentration of credit risk. TSYS works to maintain a large and diverse customer base across various industries to minimize the credit risk of any one customer to TSYS accounts receivable amounts. In addition, TSYS performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and suppliers financial condition. 7 Concentration of client base. A significant amount of TSYS revenues is derived from long term contracts with large clients, including certain major customers. Processing contracts with large clients, representing a significant portion of TSYS total revenues, generally provide for discounts on certain services based on the size and activity of clients portfolios. Therefore, electronic payment processing revenues and the related margins are influenced by the client mix relative to the size of client card portfolios, as well as the number and activity of individual cardholder accounts processed for each client. Consolidation among financial institutions has resulted in an increasingly concentrated client base, which results in a changing client mix toward larger clients. TSYS does have two major customers that account for a large portion of its revenues, which subjects it to credit risk. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages F 44 through F 47 of the Financial Appendix to TSYS Proxy Statement which is specifically incorporated herein by reference for a description of major customers. In addition to its two major customers, TSYS has other large clients representing a significant portion of its total revenues. The loss of any one of TSYS large clients could have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 
 
