Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The Financial Overview and Financial Review Sections which are set forth on pages 36 through 61 of the Annual Report which includes the information encompassed within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, are incorporated in this document by reference. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Foreign Exchange Risk. We are exposed to foreign exchange risk because we have revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies, including Euro, British Pound, Mexican Peso, Canadian Dollar, Japanese Yen and Chinese Renminbi. These currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at current exchange rates, except for revenues, costs and expenses, and net income, which are translated at the average exchange rate for each reporting period. Net exchange gains or losses resulting from the translation of assets and liabilities of our foreign 10 Table of Contents operations, net of tax, are accumulated in a separate section of shareholders equity titled accumulated other comprehensive income. The amount of other comprehensive loss for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $9.7 million. The amount of other comprehensive income for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 was $7.1 million and $7.3 million, respectively. Currently, we do not use financial instruments to hedge our exposure to exchange rate changes. The carrying value of the assets of our foreign operations in Europe, Mexico, Canada, Japan and China was approximately (in U.S. dollars) $131.9 million, $5.7 million, $457,000, $13.0 million and $37.0 million, respectively, at December 31, 2005. Interest Rate Risk. We are also exposed to interest rate risk associated with the investing of available cash and any outstanding balance on the long term line of credit we have with a banking affiliate of Synovus. We invest available cash in conservative short term instruments and are primarily subject to changes in the prime rate. On June 30, 2003, we obtained a $45.0 million long term line of credit from a banking affiliate of Synovus. The line is an automatic draw down facility. The interest rate for the line of credit is the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 150 basis points. In addition, there is a charge of 15 basis points on any funds unused. The line of credit is unsecured debt and includes covenants requiring us to maintain certain minimum financial ratios. At December 31, 2005, we did not have an outstanding balance on the line of credit and were in compliance with all covenants. As the LIBOR rate changes, we will be subject to interest rate risk. Concentration of credit risk. We work to maintain a large and diverse customer base across various industries to minimize the credit risk of any one customer to our accounts receivable amounts. In addition, we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and suppliers financial condition. Concentration of client base. A significant amount of our revenues are derived from long term contracts with large clients, including certain major customers. Processing contracts with large clients, representing a significant portion of our total revenues, generally provide for discounts on certain services based on the size and activity of clients portfolios. Therefore, electronic payment and merchant services processing revenues and the related margins are influenced by the client mix relative to the size of client card portfolios, as well as the number and activity of individual cardholder accounts processed for each client. Consolidation among financial institutions has resulted in an increasingly concentrated client base, which results in a changing client mix toward larger clients. We have two major customers that account for a large portion of our revenues, which subjects us to credit risk. See Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 85 through 89 of the Annual Report which is incorporated in this document by reference for a description of major customers. In addition to our two major customers, we have other large clients representing a significant portion of our total revenues. The loss of any one of our large clients could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents Concentration of suppliers. We utilize several large and diverse suppliers across various industries to minimize our reliance on any one supplier. However, we do rely on a relatively few major suppliers for a significant portion of our licensed computer software and hardware needs. The relationship with these particular vendors is well established. These particular vendors are large, well known and respected entities in their industry. 
 
