FILE:UNP/UNP-8K-20041021092317.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
: October 21, 2004
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
 
 
 
(402) 544-5000
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On October 21, 2004, Union Pacific Corporation issued a press release announcing Union Pacific Corporation's financial results for the third quarter of 2004. A copy of the press release is being furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1 Press release dated October 21, 2004, announcing Union Pacific Corporation's financial results for the third quarter of 2004.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: October 21, 2004
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
 
Union Pacific Corporation (NYSE:UNP) today reported 2004 third quarter income from continuing operations of $202 million or $.77 per diluted share. This compares to income from continuing operations of $300 million or $1.15 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2003.
OMAHA, Neb., October 21, 2004 
 
"Our $3.1 billion in third quarter operating revenue marks the second consecutive quarter of Railroad revenue over the $3 billion mark and our best total revenue performance ever as a company," said Dick Davidson, chairman and chief executive officer. "However, unprecedented fuel prices and high operating costs resulting from our service inefficiencies out-weighed the revenue growth."
 
2004 Third Quarter Summary
 
For the quarter, Union Pacific Corporation reported operating income of $418 million compared to $592 million for the same period in 2003.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Third Quarter Railroad Business Revenue Summary versus 2003
 
Overall, commodity revenue was up 4 percent as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"We had strong revenue growth in four of our six business groups, but I'm particularly encouraged by the continued strong performance of our Chemicals group," Davidson said. "The Chemicals performance, combined with another big quarter for Industrial Products is a good-news indicator that the nation's economy remains healthy."
 
Outlook
 
"One fact that stood out clearly this quarter is that Union Pacific, and the entire rail industry, is experiencing unprecedented levels of demand," Davidson said. "Unfortunately, operational challenges associated with these record volumes and our resource shortages, are
 
 
preventing us from making the most of this increasing demand. We are focused on making improvements and we continue to believe the resource plans that we are implementing will make a difference. As fluidity to the network is restored, our follow-on challenge will be to improve efficiency and profitability while providing quality service to our customers."
 
Union Pacific Corporation owns one of America's leading transportation companies. Its principal operating company, Union Pacific Railroad, is the largest railroad in North America, covering 23 states across the western two-thirds of the United States. A strong focus on quality and a strategically advantageous route structure enable the company to serve customers in critical and fast growing markets. It is a leading carrier of low-sulfur coal used in electrical power generation and has broad coverage of the large chemical-producing areas along the Gulf Coast. With competitive long-haul routes between all major West Coast ports and eastern gateways, and as the only railroad to serve all six major gateways to Mexico, Union Pacific has the premier rail franchise in North America.
 
Supplemental financial information is attached.
 
Additional information is available at our Web site: www.up.com. Our contact for investors is Jennifer Hamann at (402) 544-4227. Our media contact is Kathryn Blackwell at (402) 544-3753.
 
 
This press release and related materials may contain statements about the Corporation's future that are not statements of historical fact. These statements are, or will be, forward-looking statements as defined by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding: expectations as to operational or service improvements, including restoring network fluidity; statements concerning expectations of the effectiveness of steps taken or to be taken to improve operations or service, including the hiring and training of train crews, acquisition of additional locomotives, infrastructure improvements and management of customer traffic on the system to meet demand; expectations as to cost savings, revenue growth and earnings; the time by which certain objectives will be achieved; proposed new products and services; estimates of costs relating to environmental
 
 
remediation and restoration; expectations that claims, lawsuits, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, labor negotiations or agreements, or other matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity; and statements or information concerning projections, predictions, expectations, estimates or forecasts as to the Corporation's and its subsidiaries' business, financial and operational results and future economic performance, statements of management's goals and objectives and other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts.
 
Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times that, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved, including expectations of operational and service improvements. Forward-looking information is based on information available at the time and/or management's good faith belief with respect to future events, and is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
 
Important factors that could affect the Corporation's and its subsidiaries' future results and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: whether the Corporation and its subsidiaries are fully successful in implementing their financial and operational initiatives, including gaining new customers and retaining existing ones, along with containment of costs; whether the Corporation and its subsidiaries are successful in improving network operations and service by hiring and training train crews, acquiring additional locomotives, improving infrastructure and managing customer traffic on the system to meet demand; material adverse changes in economic and industry conditions, both within the United States and globally; the effects of adverse general economic conditions affecting customer demand and the industries and geographic areas that produce and consume commodities carried by us; industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation; general legislative and regulatory developments, including possible enactment of initiatives to re-regulate the rail industry; legislative, regulatory and legal developments involving taxation, including enactment of new federal or state income tax rates, revisions of controlling authority and the outcome of tax claims and litigation; changes in securities and capital markets; natural events such as severe weather, fire, floods and earthquakes or other disruptions of our operating systems, structures and equipment; any adverse economic or operational repercussions from terrorist activities and any governmental response thereto; war or risk of war; changes in fuel prices; changes in labor costs and labor difficulties, including stoppages affecting either our operations or our customers' abilities to deliver goods to us for shipment; and the outcome of claims and litigation, including those related to environmental contamination, personal injuries, and occupational illnesses arising from hearing loss, repetitive motion and exposure to asbestos and diesel fumes.
 
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements were made. The Corporation assumes no obligation to update forward-looking information to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information. If the Corporation does update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that the Corporation will make additional updates with respect thereto or with respect to other forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


