FILE:UNP/UNP-8K-20050421085214.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
April 21, 2005
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) :  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(402) 544-5000
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the
filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction
A.2. below):
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
On April 21, 2005, Union Pacific Corporation issued a press release announcing its
financial results for the first quarter of 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith
as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: April 21, 2005
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
 
Union Pacific Corporation (NYSE: UNP) today
OMAHA, Neb., April 21, 2005 
 
reported earnings of $.48 per diluted share, or net income of $128 million in the first quarter of
 
2005 compared to earnings of $.63 per diluted share, or net income of $165 million for the first
 
quarter of 2004.
 
"Operationally, our performance has improved since the beginning of the year, but our
 
earnings were impacted by the network challenges we continue to face as well as the West Coast
 
storm. We estimate that the storm adversely affected net income by approximately $34 million,"
 
said Dick Davidson, chairman and chief executive officer. "The bright spot continues to be the
 
strong demand, particularly in our Energy and Industrial Products markets. Operating revenue
 
grew by nine percent to $3.2 billion  a first quarter record and the fourth consecutive quarter
 
that we've topped the $3 billion mark."
 
 
First Quarter Overview
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2005 First Quarter Commodity Revenue Summary versus 2004
 
 
"Energy and Industrial Products posted best-ever revenue performances this quarter,"
 
Davidson said. "We see solid demand continuing, with the primary exception being Automotive,
 
which has been affected by softer auto production."
 
 
 
"Improvements in our operating metrics are encouraging. Although we'll face daily
 
challenges, we believe our network management initiatives are gaining traction and we will work
 
to build on that momentum," Davidson said. "Demand for our services remains strong and our
 
task is to leverage that strength into better bottom-line results. As we continue to restore fluidity
 
to our network, our customers, our employees and our shareholders will benefit."
 
Union Pacific Corporation owns one of America's leading transportation companies. Its
 
principal operating company, Union Pacific Railroad, is the largest railroad in North America,
 
covering 23 states across the western two-thirds of the United States. A strong focus on quality
 
and a strategically advantageous route structure enable the company to serve customers in
 
critical and fast growing markets. The Railroad is a leading carrier of low-sulfur coal used in
 
electrical power generation and has broad coverage of the large chemical-producing areas along
 
the Gulf Coast. With competitive long-haul routes between all major West Coast ports and
 
eastern gateways and as the only railroad serving all six gateways to Mexico, Union Pacific has
 
the premier rail franchise in North America.
 
Supplemental financial information is attached.
 
Additional information regarding Union Pacific is available on our Web site:
 
. Our contact for investors is Jennifer Hamann at (402) 544-4227. Our media
www.up.com
 
contact is Kathryn Blackwell (402) 544-3753.
 
 
 
This press release and related materials may contain statements about the Corporation's future that are
not statements of historical fact. These statements are, or will be, forward-looking statements as defined by the
Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include, without
limitation, statements regarding: expectations as to continued or increasing demand for rail transportation in
excess of supply; expectations regarding operational improvements, including the effectiveness of network
management initiatives that have been or will be implemented to improve system velocity, customer service and
shareholder returns; expectations as to increased returns, cost savings, revenue growth and earnings; expectations
regarding fuel price; the time by which certain objectives will be achieved, including expected improvements in
velocity and implementation of network management initiatives; estimates of costs relating to environmental
remediation and restoration; proposed new products and services; expectations that claims, lawsuits, environmental
costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, labor negotiations or agreements, or other matters will not have a
material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity; and statements
concerning projections, predictions, expectations, estimates or forecasts as to the Corporation's and its
subsidiaries' business, financial and operational results, and future economic performance; and statements of
management's beliefs, expectations, goals and objectives and other similar expressions concerning matters that are
not historical facts.
 
Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will
not necessarily be accurate indications of the times that, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved.
Forward-looking information, including expectations as to operational, service and network fluidity improvements
are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those
expressed in the statements.
 
Important factors that could affect the Corporation's and its subsidiaries' future results and could cause
those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking
statements include, but are not limited to: whether the Corporation and its subsidiaries are fully successful in
implementing their financial and operational initiatives, including those plans and management initiatives to
improve system velocity and network performance or otherwise improve operations; industry competition,
conditions, performance and consolidation; general legislative and regulatory developments, including possible
enactment of initiatives to re-regulate the rail business; legislative, regulatory and legal developments involving
taxation, including enactment of new federal or state income tax rates, revisions of controlling authority and the
outcome of tax claims and litigation; changes in securities and capital markets; natural events such as severe
weather, fire, floods and earthquakes; the effects of adverse general economic conditions, both within the United
States and globally; any adverse economic or operational repercussions from terrorist activities and any
governmental response thereto; war or risk of war; changes in fuel prices; changes in labor costs; labor
stoppages; and the outcome of claims and litigation, including those related to environmental contamination,
personal injuries, and occupational illnesses arising from hearing loss, repetitive motion and exposure to
asbestos and diesel fumes.
 
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements were made. The Corporation assumes
no obligation to update forward-looking information to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in
other factors affecting forward-looking information. If the Corporation does update one or more forward-looking
statements, no inference should be drawn that the Corporation will make additional updates with respect thereto or
with respect to other forward-looking statements. References to our website are provided for convenience and,
therefore, information on the website is not, and should not be construed to be, incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


