FILE:UNP/UNP-8K-20051027084007.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 27, 2005, Union Pacific Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: October 27, 2005
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
        UNION PACIFIC REPORTS INCREASED THIRD QUARTER EARNINGS
 
Operating Income and Operating Margin Improve for the Second Straight Quarter
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
 
Union Pacific Corporation (NYSE:UNP)
OMAHA, Neb., October 27, 2005 
 
today reported 2005 third quarter net income of $369 million or $1.38 per diluted share.
 
This quarter's results include the $118 million after-tax, or $.44 per diluted share, non-
 
cash income tax expense reduction that the company announced on October 7, 2005.
 
Excluding the tax item, net income would have been $251 million or $.94 per diluted
 
share. This compares to net income of $202 million or $.77 per diluted share in the third
 
quarter of 2004.
 
"Our quarterly earnings of $.94 per share represents a solid 22 percent
 
improvement versus last year," said Dick Davidson, chairman and chief executive officer.
 
"In addition, operating income and operating margin improved for the second
 
consecutive quarter. Despite two hurricanes and record volumes, our operating team did
 
a tremendous job maintaining and improving network fluidity in the quarter."
 
2005 Third Quarter Summary
 
For the quarter, Union Pacific Corporation reported operating income of $481
 
million, up 15 percent compared to $418 million for the same period in 2004.
 
 
 
13.6 percent in 2004
 
 
 
 
growth in carloads to a record 2.4 million loads, along with yield improvements and
 
fuel cost recovery under the company's surcharge programs
 
 
$1.88 per gallon versus $1.25 per gallon a year ago
 
 
American Railroads, improved in the third quarter of 2005 versus the third quarter of
 
2004. Higher train speeds, lower terminal dwell times and smaller rail car inventories
 
would all be indicators of better system fluidity. In the face of record demand,
 
average terminal dwell time decreased 7 percent from 30.1 hours to 28.1 hours and
 
rail car inventory decreased 1 percent to 318,626 cars
 
 
the third quarter of 2005. Average train speeds have increased more than 1 mph
 
during the first three quarters of 2005 from an average of 20.5 mph in the fourth
 
quarter of 2004.
 
Third Quarter Railroad Business Revenue Summary versus 2004
 
    Overall, commodity revenue was up 12 percent as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"We saw solid revenue growth in all six of our business segments in the quarter,"
 
Davidson said. "With the exception of autos, demand across the board continues to be
 
remarkably strong."
 
Outlook
 
"Our Company has seen both financial and operational improvement through the
 
year," Davidson said. "We continue to be challenged as we work to move record volume
 
across a system that has been stressed by hurricanes along the Gulf Coast and major
 
washouts in Kansas. Nevertheless, efforts to improve our operating efficiency are
 
beginning to show results. Our rail network is more resilient today, and we look forward
 
to continued improvements. The progress we are making, in the face of adversity, is a
 
tribute to the tenacity and hard work of the men and women of Union Pacific."
 
The third quarter 2005 net income of $251 million and diluted earnings per share
 
of $.94, which excludes the income tax expense reduction, are non-GAAP measures.
 
Management believes these measures provide an alternative presentation of results that
 
more accurately reflects on-going Company operations, without the distorting effect of
 
the income tax expense reduction. These measures should be considered in addition to,
 
not as a substitute for, net income and diluted earnings per share. The following table
 
reconciles third quarter 2005 net income and diluted earnings per share, excluding the
 
income tax expense reduction, to net income and diluted earnings per share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
This press release and related materials may contain statements about the Corporation's future
that are not statements of historical fact. These statements are, or will be, forward-looking statements as
defined by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking
statements include, without limitation, statements regarding: expectations as to continued or increasing
demand for rail transportation in excess of supply; expectations as to the timing of completion and impact
of ongoing track maintenance and restoration work being performed in the Southern Powder River Basin
of Wyoming; expectations regarding operational improvements, including the effectiveness of network
management initiatives that have been or will be implemented to improve system velocity, customer service
and shareholder returns; expectations as to increased returns, cost savings, revenue growth and earnings;
expectations regarding fuel price; the time by which certain objectives will be achieved, including expected
improvements in velocity and implementation of network management initiatives; estimates of costs
relating to environmental remediation and restoration; proposed new products and services; expectations
 
 
 
that claims, lawsuits, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, labor negotiations or
agreements, or other matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position,
results of operations or liquidity; and statements concerning projections, predictions, expectations,
estimates or forecasts as to the Corporation's and its subsidiaries' business, financial and operational
results, and future economic performance; and statements of management's beliefs, expectations, goals and
objectives and other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts.
 
        
Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results,
and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times that, or by which, such performance or results
will be achieved. Forward-looking information, including expectations as to operational, service and
network fluidity improvements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance
or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
 
        
Important factors that could affect the Corporation's and its subsidiaries' future results and could
cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-
looking statements include, but are not limited to: whether the Corporation and its subsidiaries are fully
successful in implementing their financial and operational initiatives, including those plans and
management initiatives to improve system velocity and network performance or otherwise improve
operations; industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation; general legislative and
regulatory developments, including possible enactment of initiatives to re-regulate the rail business;
legislative, regulatory and legal developments involving taxation, including enactment of new federal or
state income tax rates, revisions of controlling authority and the outcome of tax claims and litigation;
changes in securities and capital markets; natural events such as severe weather, fire, floods, hurricanes
and earthquakes; the effects of adverse general economic conditions, both within the United States and
globally; any adverse economic or operational repercussions from terrorist activities and any
governmental response thereto; war or risk of war; changes in fuel prices; changes in labor costs; labor
stoppages; and the outcome of claims and litigation, including those related to environmental
contamination, personal injuries, and occupational illnesses arising from hearing loss, repetitive motion
and exposure to asbestos and diesel fumes.
 
        
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements were made. The Corporation
assumes no obligation to update forward-looking information to reflect actual results, changes in
assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information. If the Corporation does
update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that the Corporation will
make additional updates with respect thereto or with respect to other forward-looking statements.
References to our website are provided for convenience and, therefore, information on the website is not,
and should not be construed to be, incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


