FILE:UNP/UNP-8K-20061019083556.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
October 19, 2006
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) :
 
 
(402) 544-5000
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing
obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 19, 2006, Union Pacific Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 19, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
OMAHA, Neb., October 19, 2006
 
 
 
Union Pacific Corporation (NYSE: UNP) today reported third quarter 2006 net income of $420 million or $1.54 per diluted share. Last year's third quarter net income was $369 million, or $1.38 per diluted share, which included a non-cash income tax expense reduction of $118 million after-tax, or $.44 per diluted share. Excluding the tax item, third quarter 2005 net income would have been $251 million or $.94 per diluted share. Comparing 2006 to 2005 results without the tax item, net income increased 67 percent and diluted earnings per share grew 64 percent. Operating income during the third quarter of 2006 was $752 million, up from $481 million reported in the third quarter of 2005.
 
"Quarterly operating revenue and income were the best ever in the history of the Railroad," said Jim Young, President and Chief Executive Officer. "This quarter marks the sixth consecutive quarter of operating income growth. Unlike last year's results, which were affected by hurricanes, this quarter we converted the demand for our services and greater operational efficiency into strong performance."
2006 Third Quarter Summary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Third Quarter Railroad Commodity Revenue Summary versus 2005
 
 
 
 
 
Looking Forward
"We are optimistic about the fourth quarter," Young said. "We anticipate that continued revenue growth and operational improvements will be converted into strong bottom line results."
Non-GAAP Reconciliation
The third quarter 2005 adjusted net income of $251 million and diluted earnings per share of $.94, which excludes the income tax expense reduction, are non-GAAP measures. Management believes these measures provide an alternative presentation of results that more accurately reflect on-going Company operations, without the distorting effect of the income tax expense reduction. These measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, net income and diluted earnings per share. The following table reconciles third quarter 2005 net income and diluted earnings per share, excluding the income tax expense reduction, to net income and diluted earnings per share:
 
Dollars in millions, except per share amounts
 
Union Pacific Corporation owns one of America's leading transportation companies. Its principal operating company, Union Pacific Railroad, links 23 states in the western two-thirds of the country and serves the fastest-growing U.S. population centers. Union Pacific's diversified business mix includes Agricultural Products, Automotive, Chemicals, Energy, Industrial Products and Intermodal. The railroad offers competitive long-haul routes from all major West Coast and Gulf Coast ports to eastern gateways. Union Pacific connects with Canada's rail systems and is the only railroad serving all six major gateways to Mexico, making it North America's premier rail franchise.
Supplemental financial information is attached.
Additional information is available at our Web site: . Our contact for investors is Jennifer Hamann at (402) 544-4227. Our media contact is Kathryn Blackwell at (402) 319-4288 or (402) 544-3753.
www.up.com
 
This press release and related materials may contain statements about the Corporation's future that are not statements of historical fact. These statements are, or will be, forward-looking statements as defined by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, information or statements regarding: expectations as to continued or increasing demand for rail transportation services; expectations regarding operational improvements, including the effectiveness of network management initiatives that have been or will be implemented to improve system velocity, productivity, customer service and shareholder returns; expectations as to increased returns, cost savings, revenue growth and earnings; expectations regarding fuel price and our ability to mitigate fuel costs; the time by which certain objectives will be achieved, including expected improvements in velocity, operating efficiencies and implementation of network management initiatives; estimates of costs relating to environmental remediation and restoration; proposed new products and services; expectations that claims, lawsuits, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, labor negotiations or agreements, or other matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity; and statements concerning projections, predictions, expectations, estimates or forecasts as to the Corporation's and its subsidiaries' business, financial and operational results, and future economic performance; and statements of management's beliefs, expectations, goals and objectives and other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts.
Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times that, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking information, including expectations as to operational, service and network fluidity improvements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
Important factors that could affect the Corporation's and its subsidiaries' future results and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: whether the Corporation and its subsidiaries are fully successful in implementing their financial and operational initiatives, including those plans and management initiatives to improve system velocity and network performance or otherwise improve operations; the impact of ongoing track maintenance and restoration work being performed in the Southern Powder River Basin of Wyoming; the outcome of claims and litigation, including those related to environmental contamination, personal injuries, and occupational illnesses arising from hearing loss, repetitive motion and exposure to asbestos and diesel fumes; legislative and regulatory developments, including possible enactment of initiatives to re-regulate the rail industry; the impact of a rail accident involving the release of hazardous materials; natural events such as severe weather, fire, floods, hurricanes and earthquakes; changes in fuel prices or changes to our ability to recover fuel costs; changes in labor costs, labor stoppages, and the availability of qualified personnel required for our operations; industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation; legislative, regulatory and legal developments involving taxation, including enactment of new federal or state income tax rates, revisions of controlling authority and the outcome of tax claims and litigation; changes in securities and capital markets; the effects of adverse general economic conditions, both within the United States and globally; any adverse economic or operational repercussions from terrorist activities and any governmental response thereto; and war or risk of war. More information regarding risk factors is available in the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2005, which was filed with the SEC on February 24, 2006. The Corporation updates information regarding risk factors if circumstances require such updates in its periodic reports on Form 10-Q (or such other reports that may be filed with the SEC).
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements were made. The Corporation assumes no obligation to update forward-looking information to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information. If the Corporation does update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that the Corporation will make additional updates with respect thereto or with respect to other forward-looking statements. References to our website are provided for convenience and, therefore, information on the website is not, and should not be construed to be, incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


