FILE:UNP/UNP-8K-20060119085152.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02    Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On January 19, 2006, Union Pacific Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: January 19, 2006
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
 
Union Pacific Corporation (NYSE: UNP) today reported 2005 fourth quarter net income of $296 million, or $1.10 per diluted share, compared to $79 million, or $0.30 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2004. The 2004 results include the impact of a non-cash charge for unasserted asbestos claims of $154 million after-tax, or $0.58 per diluted share. Excluding the asbestos charge, 2005 fourth quarter diluted earnings per share increased by 25 percent.
OMAHA, Neb., January 19, 2006 
 
"Union Pacific is operating more efficiently, allowing us to handle record volumes and recover more rapidly from challenges such as hurricanes, the Kansas washouts and severe winter storms," said Jim Young, President and Chief Executive Officer. "We have gained traction throughout the year with our operating initiatives. I am particularly pleased that we converted strong revenue growth into a significant increase in operating income."
 
2005 Fourth Quarter Summary
 
In the fourth quarter of 2005, Union Pacific Corporation reported operating income of $533 million compared to 2004's $451 million, which excludes the $247 million pre-tax, non-cash asbestos charge.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter Commodity Revenue Summary versus 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2005 Full Year Summary
 
Full year 2005 net income was $1.0 billion or $3.85 per diluted share, versus $604 million, or $2.30 per diluted share in 2004. The 2005 full year results include a non-cash income tax expense reduction of $118 million after-tax, or $.44 per diluted share. The 2004 full year results include the impact of the non-cash asbestos charge. The comparison of 2005 and 2004 earnings, excluding the tax and asbestos items, would be $3.41 per diluted share versus $2.89 per diluted share, an 18 percent increase.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2006 Outlook
 
"Looking ahead, we are optimistic about 2006. Our network is more resilient than it was at this time last year and we are continuing to build momentum," Young said. "We expect demand will continue to be strong, particularly in the areas of coal and intermodal.
 
"In 2006, we will focus on providing better service to our customers, improving the efficiency of our network and increasing the financial returns on our business."
 
Non-GAAP Reconciliation
 
The fourth quarter 2004 operating income, full year 2004 operating income, and diluted earnings per share of $451 million, $1.5 billion and $2.89, respectively, exclude the non-cash charge for unasserted asbestos claims and are non-GAAP measures. The asbestos charge was made to reflect an increase in the Company's estimated liability, which had previously recognized asserted asbestos claims, to also include unasserted claims.
 
In addition, the full year 2005 net income of $908 million and earnings per diluted share of $3.41 exclude the income tax reduction item reported in the third quarter of 2005 and are also non-GAAP measures. Management believes these measures provide an alternative presentation of results that more accurately reflects on-going Company operations, without the distorting effects of the asbestos charge and income tax expense reduction items. These measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share.
 
The following table provides reconciliations for the fourth quarter 2004, full year 2004 and full year 2005 for operating income, net income, diluted earnings per share and operating margin, excluding the asbestos charge and income tax expense reduction, to reported operating income, net income, diluted earnings per share and operating margin:
 
 
Dollars in millions, except per share amounts
 
 
Union Pacific Corporation owns one of America's leading transportation companies. Its principal operating company, Union Pacific Railroad, is the largest railroad in North America, covering 23 states across the western two-thirds of the United States. A strong focus on quality and a strategically advantageous route structure enable the company to serve customers in critical and fast growing markets. It is a leading carrier of low-sulfur coal used in electrical power generation and has broad coverage of the large chemical-producing areas along the Gulf Coast. With competitive long-haul routes between all major West Coast ports and eastern
 
 
gateways, and as the only railroad to serve all six major gateways to Mexico, Union Pacific has the premier rail franchise in North America.
 
Supplemental financial information is attached.
 
Additional information is available at our Web site: . Contact for investors is Jennifer Hamann at 402-544-4227. Contact for media is Kathryn Blackwell at 402-544-3753 or 402-319-4288.
www.up.com
 
 
This press release and related materials may contain statements about the Corporation's future that are not statements of historical fact. These statements are, or will be, forward-looking statements as defined by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding: expectations as to continued or increasing demand for rail transportation in excess of supply; expectations regarding operational improvements, including the effectiveness of network management initiatives that have been or will be implemented to improve system velocity, customer service and shareholder returns; expectations as to increased returns, cost savings, revenue growth and earnings; expectations regarding fuel price; the time by which certain objectives will be achieved, including expected improvements in velocity and implementation of network management initiatives; estimates of costs relating to environmental remediation and restoration; proposed new products and services; expectations that claims, lawsuits, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, labor negotiations or agreements, or other matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity; and statements concerning projections, predictions, expectations, estimates or forecasts as to the Corporation's and its subsidiaries' business, financial and operational results, and future economic performance; and statements of management's beliefs, expectations, goals and objectives and other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts.
 
Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times that, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking information, including expectations as to operational, service and network fluidity improvements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
 
Important factors that could affect the Corporation's and its subsidiaries' future results and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: whether the Corporation and its subsidiaries are fully successful in implementing their financial and operational initiatives, including those plans and management initiatives to improve system velocity and network performance or otherwise improve operations; the impact of ongoing track maintenance and restoration work being performed in the Southern Powder River Basin of Wyoming; industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation; general legislative and regulatory developments, including possible enactment of initiatives to re-regulate the rail industry; legislative, regulatory and legal developments involving taxation, including enactment of new federal or state income tax rates, revisions of controlling authority and the outcome of tax claims and litigation; changes in securities and capital markets; natural events such as severe weather, fire, floods, hurricanes and earthquakes; the effects of adverse general economic conditions, both within the United States and globally; any adverse economic or operational repercussions from terrorist activities and any governmental response thereto; war or risk of war; changes in fuel prices; changes in labor costs; labor stoppages; and the outcome of claims and litigation, including those related to environmental contamination, personal injuries, and occupational illnesses arising from hearing loss, repetitive motion and exposure to asbestos and diesel fumes.
 
 
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements were made. The Corporation assumes no obligation to update forward-looking information to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information. If the Corporation does update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that the Corporation will make additional updates with respect thereto or with respect to other forward-looking statements. References to our website are provided for convenience and, therefore, information on the website is not, and should not be construed to be, incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


