FILE:UNP/UNP-8K-20071002155826.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
 
At a regular meeting of the Board of Directors (the Board) of Union Pacific Corporation (the Company) held on September 26, 2007, the Board, acting upon the recommendation of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee (the Committee), authorized and directed the Company to make the following amendments to its By-Laws. These amendments are effective as of October 1, 2007, and a copy of the amended and restated By-Laws is attached and filed herewith as Exhibit 3.
 
Majority Voting
 
Section 9 of Article I of the By-Laws was amended to provide for majority voting in connection with the uncontested election of directors. The Board considered, among other things, applicable changes to the Utah Revised Business Corporation Act (the Act) regarding the standards for election of directors and a nonbinding shareholder proposal approved by the shareholders of the Company at its Annual Meeting in 2007 that recommended the Company amend its certificate of incorporation or its by-laws to adopt a majority voting standard. Under the majority voting provisions of the amended By-Laws and the applicable provisions of the Act, a nominee for director in an uncontested election will be elected to a full term of office if he or she receives more "for" votes than "against" votes. If the nominee does not receive more "for" votes than "against" votes, he or she will be elected to a shortened term of not more than 90 days.
 
Emergency Meetings
 
Section 3 of Article II was amended to include provisions regarding procedures for calling and holding meetings of the Board in certain situations. These procedures will enable the Board to expeditiously respond to, and address, emergency situations. Additionally, the provisions regarding quorums at Board meetings that were previously set forth in Section 3 of Article II were moved to the end of the immediately preceding Section 2.
 
Director Compensation
 
Section 4 of Article II was revised to provide that the compensation paid to directors for their services will be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors in a manner consistent with the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines and Policies (the Guidelines), which compensation will be disclosed annually in the Company's Proxy Statement.
 
The Board, acting upon the recommendation of the Committee, reviewed and revised the compensation arrangements of the Company's non-employee directors to provide more competitive compensation to non-employee directors, ensure that the Company can continue to attract and retain highly qualified directors, and to satisfy the Guidelines, which state that director compensation generally should be between the median and the seventy-fifth percentile of director compensation at comparable companies. A third-party consultant provided the Board and the Committee with data and information regarding compensation arrangements for directors
of comparable companies, and, after reviewing this information, the Board eliminated the annual grant of options to non-employee directors. On January 30, 2007, the estimated fair value of the 1,850 options granted to each non-employee director for 2007 was $41,329.93. The Company determined this grant date fair value by using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Additionally, the Board elected to increase the annual retainer from $120,000 to $220,000, which, according to the data provided by the third-party consultant, is within the range for director compensation prescribed by the Guidelines. The Board, acting in accordance with the Guidelines, also increased the portion of the annual retainer that each non-employee director must defer to $100,000 from $45,000. The Company provides the deferral amount in the form of stock units, which are payable only upon termination of service as a director pursuant to the Company's Stock Unit Grant and Deferred Compensation Plan for the Board of Directors. Finally, the Board increased the stock ownership guidelines for non-employee directors from three to four times the cash portion of the annual retainer, which should be attained within four years from the date of a director's initial election to the Board. The Board last revised the compensation arrangements for its non-employee directors in February of 2005. The new compensation arrangements for non-employee directors described in this report will be effective as of January 1, 2008.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: October 2, 2007
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STOCKHOLDERS MEETINGS
 
SECTION 1. Annual meetings of the stockholders of this Company shall be held in Salt Lake City, Utah. Special meetings of the stockholders of this Company may be held at such place or places as shall be ordered by the Board of Directors but, unless otherwise ordered, such meetings shall be held in Salt Lake City, Utah.
 
SECTION 2. Annual meetings of the stockholders, for the purpose of electing directors and transacting any other business, shall be held at such time as shall be ordered by the Board of Directors but, unless otherwise ordered, shall be held at 8:30 a.m. on the first Thursday of May in each year.
 
SECTION 3. A special meeting of the stockholders may be called by the Board of Directors or by any other person who, at such time, is authorized by the Utah Revised Business Corporation Act (the "Act") to call a special meeting of stockholders. A request by a stockholder for a special meeting must be accompanied by a statement of purposes which includes at least the information set out in clauses (i) through (vi) of Section 10(e) of Article I of these By-Laws. The objects of a special meeting shall be stated in the order therefor, and the business transacted shall be confined to such objects.
 
SECTION 4. Notice of all meetings of the stockholders shall be given, either personally or by mail, not less than ten nor more than sixty days prior thereto. The notice of all special meetings shall state the objects thereof. The failure to give notice of an annual meeting, or any irregularity in the notice, shall not affect the validity of such annual meeting or of any proceedings thereat. Any stockholder may consent in writing to the holding of a special meeting without notice. A stockholder's attendance at a meeting: (i) waives objection to lack of notice or defective notice of the meeting, unless the stockholder at the beginning of the meeting objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting because of lack of notice or defective notice; and (ii) waives objection to consideration of a particular matter at the meeting that is not within the purpose or purposes described in the meeting notice, unless the stockholder objects to considering the matter when it is presented.
 
 
SECTION 5. The Board of Directors may fix in advance a day and hour not more than seventy days preceding any annual or special meeting of stockholders or action of stockholders as the time for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting or to take such action. Stockholders of record at the time so fixed by the Board of Directors and only such stockholders shall be entitled to vote at such meeting. Each share of stock shall entitle such record holder thereof to one vote, in person or by proxy in writing.
 
SECTION 6. The Chairman of the Board, and in his absence the Chief Executive Officer, and in their absence the President, and in their absence one of the Vice Presidents, shall call meetings of the stockholders to order and act as chairman of such meetings. In the absence of all these officers, the Board of Directors may appoint a chairman of the meeting to act in such event; but if the Board shall not make such appointment, then, in the absence of all of these officers, any stockholder or proxy of any stockholder may call the meeting to order, and a chairman shall be elected.
 
SECTION 7. The Secretary of the Company shall act as secretary at all meetings of the stockholders; but the Board of Directors may designate an Assistant Secretary for that purpose before the meeting, and if no such designation shall have been made, then the presiding officer at the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
 
SECTION 8. At each meeting of the stockholders the polls shall be opened and closed and the ballots and proxies shall be received and taken charge of by two inspectors. Such inspectors shall be appointed before the meeting by the Board of Directors, and if no such appointment shall have been made, then by the presiding officer at the meeting; and if for any reason any of the inspectors previously appointed shall fail to attend, or refuse or be unable to serve, then inspectors, in place of any so failing to attend or refusing or unable to serve, shall be appointed by the presiding officer at the meeting. Such inspectors need not be stockholders.
 
SECTION 9. Stockholders may take action on a matter at a meeting only if a quorum exists with respect to that matter. Unless the articles of incorporation or the Act provide otherwise, a majority of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, represented in person or by proxy, constitutes a quorum for action on that matter. If, however, such quorum shall not be present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present or represented. Once a share is represented for any purpose at a meeting, it is deemed present for quorum purposes for the remainder of the meeting and for any adjournment of that meeting unless a new record date is or must be set for that adjourned meeting. If a quorum exists, action on a matter, other than the election of directors, by stockholders is approved if the votes cast favoring the action exceed the votes cast opposing the action, unless the articles of incorporation or the Act require a greater number of affirmative votes.
 
The Company elects to be governed by Section 16-10a-1023(2) of the Act with respect to the election of directors. Pursuant to that provision, at each meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, each director shall be elected by the vote of a
 
majority of the votes cast, except in the event of a contested election in which Section 16-10a-1023(3) of the Act is applicable. For purposes of this Section 9, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a director must exceed the number of shares voted "against" that director. If a nominee receives more votes "against" than "for" his or her election at a meeting at which a quorum is present and Section 16-10a-1023(3) of the Act is not applicable, then under Section 16-10a-1023(2)(c) of the Act such individual shall serve as a director for an abbreviated term that terminates on the earlier of: (i) 90 days after the day on which the Company certifies the voting results; or (ii) the day on which a person is selected by the Board of Directors to fill the office held by the director. In the event of a contested election for which Section 16-10a-1023(3) of the Act is applicable, unless otherwise provided in the articles of incorporation or the Act, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the shares entitled to vote at a meeting at which a quorum is present.
 
SECTION 10. (a) At any annual meeting of stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been brought before the meeting (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (ii) by any stockholder who complies with the procedures set forth in this Section 10.
 
(b) No business may be transacted at any annual meeting of stockholders, other than business that is either (i) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given pursuant to Section 4 of Article I of these By-Laws, (ii) otherwise properly brought before such meeting of stockholders by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (iii) otherwise properly brought before such meeting by any stockholder (A) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice by the stockholder provided for in this Section 10 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting of stockholders and (B) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 10.
 
(c) No business may be transacted at any special meeting of stockholders, other than business that is specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given pursuant to Section 4 of Article I of these By-Laws.
 
(d) In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before a meeting of stockholders by a stockholder pursuant to clause (b) of this Section 10 such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Company. To be timely, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary of the Company pursuant to clause (b) of this Section 10 must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Company not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders; provided, however, that in the event that the annual meeting of stockholders is called for a date that is not within thirty (30) days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which notice of the date of the annual meeting of stockholders was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the meeting of stockholders was made, whichever first occurs.
 
 
(e) To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary of the Company pursuant to clause (b) of this Section 10 must set forth as to each matter such stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting of stockholders (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting of stockholders and the reasons for conducting such business at such meeting of stockholders, (ii) the name and record address of such stockholder, (iii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Company which are owned beneficially or of record by such stockholder as of the record date for the meeting (if such date shall then have been made publicly available and shall have occurred) and as of the date of such notice, (iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder and any material interest of such stockholder in such business, (v) any other information which would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with the solicitation of proxies for the proposal pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder if such stockholder were engaged in such a solicitation (other than a solicitation described in Rules 14a-2(a) or 14a-2(b) promulgated under the Exchange Act), and (vi) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting of stockholders to bring such business before the meeting.
 
(f) No business shall be conducted at the annual meeting of stockholders except business brought before the meeting of stockholders in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 10, provided, however, that, once business has been properly brought before the meeting of stockholders in accordance with such procedures, nothing in this Section 10 shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any stockholder of any such business.
 
(g) If the chairman of a meeting of stockholders determines that business was not properly brought before a meeting of stockholders, the chairman shall declare to the meeting that the business was not properly brought before the meeting and such business shall not be transacted.
 
SECTION 11. (a) Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock then outstanding, only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors of the Company. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at any annual meeting of stockholders, or at any special meeting of stockholders called for the purpose of electing directors, (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (ii) by any stockholder of the Company (A) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 11 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting and (B) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 11.
 
(b) In addition to any other applicable requirements for a nomination to be made by a stockholder pursuant to clause (a) of this Section 11, such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Company.
 
 
(c) To be timely, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary of the Company pursuant to clause (a) of this Section 11 must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Company (i) in the case of an annual meeting of stockholders, not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders, provided, however, that in the event that the annual meeting of stockholders is called for a date that is not within thirty (30) days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which notice of the date of the annual meeting of stockholders was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever first occurs, and (ii) in the case of a special meeting of stockholders called for the purpose of electing directors, not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which notice of the date of the special meeting of stockholders was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the special meeting of stockholders was made, whichever first occurs.
 
(d) To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary of the Company pursuant to clause (a) of this Section 11 must set forth (i) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director (A) the name, age, business address and residence address of the person, (B) the principal occupation or employment of the person, (C) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Company which are owned beneficially or of record by the person as of the record date for the meeting (if such date shall then have been made publicly available and shall have occurred) and as of the date of such notice and (D) any other information relating to the person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (ii) as to the stockholder giving the notice (A) the name and record address of such stockholder, (B) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Company which are owned beneficially or of record by such stockholder as of the record date for the meeting (if such date shall then have been made publicly available and shall have occurred) and as of the date of such notice, (C) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and each proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including their names) pursuant to which the nominations are to be made by such stockholder, (D) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the persons named in its notice and (E) any other information relating to such stockholder that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (other than a solicitation described in Rules 14a-2(a) or 14a-2(b) promulgated under the Exchange Act). Such notice must be accompanied by a written consent of each proposed nominee to being named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected.
 
(e) No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Company unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 11. If the chairman of the meeting determines that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing
 
procedures, the chairman shall declare to the meeting that the nomination was defective and such defective nomination shall be disregarded.
 
SECTION 12. If and to the extent authorized by the Board in connection with a particular meeting, stockholders may participate in a meeting of stockholders, and such meetings may be conducted through the use of, any means of telecommunication permitted under the Act.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1. All corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the authority of, and the business and affairs of the Company shall be managed under the direction of, the Board of Directors. The number of directors which shall constitute the whole board shall be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors, provided that such number shall not be less than three (3). Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors may be filled by a vote of the Board and, if the directors remaining in office consist of fewer than a quorum of the Board, a majority of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, may fill the vacancy. A director elected to fill a vacancy shall be elected for the unexpired term of his predecessor in office. Any director appointed by the Board of Directors to fill a directorship caused by an increase in the number of directors shall serve until the next annual meeting or a special meeting of the stockholders called for the purpose of electing directors.
 
SECTION 2. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at 8:30 a.m. on such day in such months as the Board shall from time to time designate, and no further notice of such regular meetings shall be required. Special meetings shall be held whenever called by order of the Chairman or any five members of the Board. Notice of special meetings shall be given, at least one day prior thereto, by personal service of written notice upon the directors or by delivering the same at, or transmitting the same by first class mail, facsimile transmission, telephone or other electronic means to, their respective residences or offices. Any director may consent in writing to the holding of a special meeting without notice, and the attendance or participation of any director at a special meeting shall constitute a waiver by him of call and notice thereof and a consent to the holding of said meeting and the transaction of any corporate business thereat, unless the director at the beginning of the meeting, or promptly upon the director's arrival, objects to holding the meeting or transacting business thereat because of lack of notice or defective notice, and does not thereafter vote for or assent to the action taken at the meeting. Meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at such place or places as shall be ordered by a majority of the directors in office, but unless otherwise ordered, all meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at the principal executive offices of the Company in Omaha, Nebraska. A majority of the number of directors prescribed by Article II, Section 1 shall constitute a quorum at regular and special meetings of the Board. If a quorum be not present at any meeting, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting until a later day or hour.
 
SECTION 3. Emergency meetings of the Board may be called by one or more directors or officers of the Company in the case of an emergency resulting from an attack on the United States or during the existence of any natural or man-made catastrophe, and in other circumstances or to address particular matters as designated from time to time by resolutions or policies adopted by the Board. Any such emergency meeting may be called with more or less than 24 hours notice, which notice may be waived in advance or after the fact, and may be delivered orally (with written confirmation to follow) or in writing delivered by courier,
 
electronically (including email), by facsimile or by any other reasonable means. The quorum for action at any such meeting shall be no fewer than one-third of the number of directors prescribed by Article II, Section 1.
 
SECTION 4. Each director who is not an employee of this Company or any of its subsidiaries, when authorized by resolution or consent of the Board of Directors, may receive compensation for services to include a retainer, which must have a substantial equity component in the form of restricted stock or units or other equity award in accordance with this Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines and Policies. Director compensation, as authorized by the Board of Directors, may include payment of additional retainer amounts for serving on Committees of the Board of Directors, including service as chair or co-chair of a Committee. Each retainer shall be payable in quarterly installments at the end of the quarter, plus a reasonable allowance for transportation and other expenses incurred by such director in connection with attending any meeting of the Board of Directors, or of any Committee of the Board; provided, however, that directors who attend fewer than 75% of the Board and Committee meetings on which they serve will be paid 75% of the annual retainer.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1. There may be elected by the Board of Directors from its members a Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a President, a Chief Operating Officer and one or more Vice Chairmen of the Board, and there may also be elected by the Board of Directors an Executive Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer, a Senior Vice President-Human Resources, a Vice President-Taxes, a General Counsel, a Controller, a Secretary, a Treasurer and such other Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents and Vice Presidents as the Board shall determine, and there may also be appointed by the Board of Directors such Assistant Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers, Assistant Controllers, Associate General Counsels, Assistant General Counsels, General Tax Counsels, Associate General Tax Counsels and other officers and agents as the Board of Directors shall from time to time determine.
 
SECTION 2. The Chairman of the Board shall preside, when present, at meetings of the Board of Directors and shall perform such other duties and possess such powers as may be prescribed or conferred by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
 
SECTION 3. The Chief Executive Officer shall have general supervision of all departments and offices of the Company and of the interest of the Company in all companies controlled by it. He shall preside, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, at meetings of the Board of Directors.
 
SECTION 4. The President shall preside, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, at meetings of the Board of Directors and shall perform such duties and possess such powers as may be prescribed or conferred by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
 
SECTION 5. The Chief Operating Officer shall have day to day operating responsibilities for the affairs of the Company, reporting to the Chief Executive Officer, and shall perform such duties as may be prescribed or conferred by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
 
SECTION 6. The Vice Chairmen of the Board shall perform such duties and possess such powers as may be prescribed or conferred by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
 
SECTION 7. The Executive Vice Presidents and Senior Vice Presidents shall perform such duties as may be prescribed or conferred by the Chief Executive Officer.
 
SECTION 8. The Executive Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer shall have the direction and management of the financial affairs, investments, strategic planning and corporate development of the Company and of the offices in charge of the Controller, the
 
Treasurer and the Vice President-Taxes, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed or conferred by the Chief Executive Officer.
 
SECTION 9. The Senior Vice President-Human Resources shall have the direction and management of the human resources functions of the Company, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed or conferred by the Chief Executive Officer.
 
SECTION 10. The General Counsel shall have the direction and management of all legal business of the Company except as otherwise provided in Sections 12 and 19 of this ARTICLE III, shall perform such duties respecting legal matters as shall be assigned to him by the Chief Executive Officer, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed or conferred by the Chief Executive Officer.
 
SECTION 11. The Vice President-Taxes shall, under the control of the Executive Vice President-Finance, have charge of all aspects of Federal, foreign, state and local taxes, and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned by the Executive Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
 
SECTION 12. The other Vice Presidents elected and Assistant Vice Presidents appointed from time to time shall perform such duties and possess such powers as may be prescribed or conferred by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
 
SECTION 13. Except as otherwise provided herein or directed by the Board of Directors, the Controller shall have immediate charge of the general books, accounts and statistics of the Company and shall be the custodian of all vouchers, drafts, invoices and other evidences of payment and all bonds, interest coupons and other evidences of indebtedness which shall have been canceled. He is authorized to approve for payment by the Treasurer vouchers, payrolls, drafts or other accounts. He shall be furnished by the Assistant Controllers of the Company periodically or specially as requested by him with the approval of and in form prescribed by the Executive Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer, statements of operating revenues and expenses and estimates thereof and of expenditures and estimates on all other accounts; and copies of all statistical data that may be compiled in regular course and also all other information in reference to the financial affairs and operations of the Company and of any subsidiary company that may be required by the Executive Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer or the Board of Directors. He shall submit for each regular meeting of the Board of Directors, and, at such other times as may be required by said Board or the Executive Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer, statements of operating results, of cash resources and requirements and of appropriations for Capital Expenditures, and shall perform such other duties as the Executive Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer may from time to time direct.
 
The Assistant Controllers shall exercise such of the powers and perform such of the duties of the Controller with respect to accounting and approving or authorizing payments as shall be assigned to them by the Controller.
 
 
SECTION 14. The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors, and keep a record of all their proceedings. He shall procure and keep in his files copies of the minutes of all meetings of the stockholders, boards of directors and executive committees of all companies a majority of whose capital stock is owned by this Company. He shall be the custodian of the seal of the Company. He shall have power to affix the seal of the Company to instruments, the execution of which is authorized by these By-Laws or by action of the Board of Directors, and to attest the same. He shall have supervision of the issuance, transfer and registration of the capital stock and debt securities of the Company. He shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
 
The Assistant Secretaries shall have power to affix the seal of the Company to instruments, the execution of which is authorized by these By-Laws or by action of the Board of Directors, and to attest the same, and shall exercise such of the other powers and perform such of the other duties of the Secretary as shall be assigned to them by the Secretary.
 
SECTION 15. Except as otherwise provided herein or directed by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer shall be the custodian of all moneys, stocks, bonds, notes and other securities of the Company. He is authorized to receive and receipt for stocks, bonds, notes and other securities belonging to the Company or which are received for its account. All stocks, bonds, notes and other securities in the custody of the Treasurer shall be held in the safe deposit vaults of the Company or in one or more depositories selected by the Treasurer or other officer authorized by the Board of Directors, in each case subject to access thereto as shall from time to time be authorized or required by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, or the Treasurer. Stocks, bonds, notes and other securities shall be deposited in the safe deposit vaults or depositories, or withdrawn from them, only by persons and pursuant to procedures as shall be determined by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Treasurer. The Treasurer is authorized and empowered to receive and collect all moneys due to the Company and to receipt therefor. All moneys received by the Treasurer shall be deposited to the credit of the Company in such depositories as shall be designated by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Treasurer or such other officers as may be authorized by the Board of Directors; and the Treasurer or other officer designated by the Treasurer may endorse for deposit therein all checks, drafts, or vouchers drawn to the order of the Company or payable to it. He is also authorized to draw checks against any funds to the credit of the Company in any of its depositories. All such checks shall be signed by such persons, either by manual or facsimile signature as shall be authorized by the Board of Directors, and countersigned if required by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer is authorized to make disbursements in settlement of vouchers, payrolls, drafts or other accounts, when approved for payment by the Controller, or such other person as shall be authorized by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or these By-Laws; for payments which have been otherwise ordered or provided for by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer; for interest on bonds and dividends on stock when due and payable; for vouchers, pay checks, drafts and other accounts properly certified to by the duly authorized officers of the Company; and for vouchers, pay checks, drafts and other accounts approved by the officers duly authorized to approve for payment of any company which this Company controls through the ownership of stock or otherwise, as may be designated in writing from time to time by the Chief Executive Officer to the Treasurer. He shall cause to be kept in
 
his office true and full accounts of all receipts and disbursements of his office. He shall also perform such other duties as shall be assigned to him by the Executive Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
 
The Assistant Treasurers may exercise all powers of the Treasurer herein conferred in respect of the receipt of moneys and securities, endorsement for deposit and signature of checks.
 
SECTION 16. The Associate General Counsels and Assistant General Counsels shall perform such duties respecting legal matters as shall be assigned to them by the General Counsel.
 
SECTION 17. The General Tax Counsels shall be responsible for all tax-related legal advice (including federal tax planning and research, litigation and legislation; tax aspects of strategic, operational and financing transactions; and ERISA/Benefits tax matters), and shall perform such other duties as shall be assigned to them by the Vice President-Taxes.
 
SECTION 18. The Associate General Tax Counsels shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to them by the Vice President-Taxes or the General Tax Counsels.
 
SECTION 19. To the extent that a separate division shall be created within the Company, the Chief Executive Officer shall be authorized to appoint officers of such division and any such officers shall perform such duties and possess such powers as are prescribed and conferred by the Chief Executive Officer.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1. Any officer or employee elected or appointed by the Board of Directors may be removed as such at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors then in office, with or without cause. Any other officer or employee of the Company may be removed at any time by vote of the Board of Directors or by the officer supervising such officer or employee, with or without cause.
 
SECTION 2. All officers, agents and employees of the Company, in the exercise of the powers conferred and the performance of the duties imposed upon them, by these By-Laws or otherwise, shall at all times be subject to the direction, supervision and control of the Board of Directors.
 
SECTION 3. No office or position shall be created and no person shall be employed at a salary of more than $300,000 per annum, and no salary shall be increased to an amount in excess of $300,000 per annum, without the approval of the Board of Directors.
 
SECTION 4. The Board of Directors may from time to time vest general authority in the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or the Head of any department or office of the Company, or any such other officer of the Company as any of the foregoing shall designate, for the sole determination of disposition of any matter which otherwise should be required to be considered by the Board of Directors under the provisions of this Article.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1. All capital expenditures, leases and property dispositions must be authorized by the Board of Directors, except that general or specific authority with regard to such matters may be delegated to such officers of the Company as the Board of Directors may from time to time direct.
 
SECTION 2. Expenditures chargeable to operating expenses may be made by or under the direction of the Head of the department or office of the Company in which they are required, without explicit or further authority from the Board of Directors, subject to direction, restriction or prohibition by the Chief Executive Officer.
 
SECTION 3. No contract shall be made without the approval of the Board of Directors, except as authorized by the Board of Directors or these By-Laws.
 
SECTION 4. Contracts for work, labor and services and materials and supplies, the expenditures for which will be chargeable to operating expenses, may be made in the name and on behalf of the Company by the Head of the department or office of the Company concerned, or by such officer as he shall designate, without further authority.
 
SECTION 5. All written contracts and agreements to which the Company may become a party shall be approved as to form by or under the direction of counsel for the Company.
 
SECTION 6. The Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Heads of the departments and offices of the Company and the Vice Presidents shall severally have the power to execute on behalf of the Company any deed, bond, indenture, certificate, note, contract or other instrument authorized or approved by, or pursuant to authority granted by, the Board of Directors, and to cause the corporate seal to be thereto affixed and attested by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary.
 
SECTION 7. The Board of Directors may from time to time vest general or specific authority in such officers of the Company as the Board of Directors shall designate for the sole determination of disposition of any matter which otherwise would be required to be considered by the Board of Directors under the provisions of this Article.
 
SECTION 8. For purposes of this Article V, any references to "officers of the Company" shall include officers of any division of the Company and references to the "Head of the department or office of the Company" shall include the Head of any division of the Company or any department or office within such a division.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1. The Board of Directors shall provide for the issue, transfer, and registration of the capital stock of the Company in the City and State of New York, and in any other locality which it may designate, and shall appoint the necessary officers, transfer agents, and registrars of transfers for that purpose.
 
SECTION 2. Until otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, stock certificates shall be signed by the Chief Executive Officer or the President or a Vice President, and also by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary thereunto authorized by the Board of Directors.
 
SECTION 3. The registrar of transfers shall in every case be a trust company to be appointed by the Board of Directors, in accordance with the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, and such registration shall be performed in accordance with the rules and regulations of said Exchange.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1. The Company shall indemnify to the full extent permitted by law any person made or threatened to be made a party to any action, suit or proceeding, whether criminal, civil, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director, officer or employee of the Company or serves or served at the request of the Company any other enterprise as a director, officer, fiduciary or employee. The indemnification provided in this section shall include the right to receive payment in advance of any final disposition of any expenses incurred by any such person in connection with any such action, suit or proceeding, consistent with the provisions of then applicable law. For purposes of this By-Law, the term "other enterprise" shall include any corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or employee benefit plan; service "at the request of the Company" shall include service as a director, officer or employee of the Company which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer or employee with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries; any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to be indemnifiable expenses; and action by a person with respect to an employee benefit plan in good faith which such person reasonably believes to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of such plan shall be deemed to be action not opposed to the best interests of the corporation. This Section 1 shall not apply to any action, suit or proceeding pending or threatened on the date of adoption hereof provided that the right of the Company to indemnify any person with respect thereto shall not be limited hereby.
 
SECTION 2. Any indemnification under Section 1 of this Article VII (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Company only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the director, officer or employee is proper in the circumstances because such person has met the applicable standard of conduct required by law. Such determination shall be made by the persons authorized by the Act.
 
SECTION 3. Notwithstanding Sections 1 and 2 of this Article VII, except for proceedings to enforce indemnification, the Company shall not be obligated to indemnify any director, officer or employee in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person unless such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized or consented to by the Board of Directors. The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by Section 1 of this Article VII shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which any person seeking indemnification may be entitled under any law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in such person's official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office, and shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer or employee and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person. Any amendment or repeal of Section 1 or Section 2 of this ARTICLE VII or this Section 3 shall not limit the right of any person to indemnity with respect to actions taken or omitted to be taken by such person prior to such amendment or repeal.
 
 
SECTION 4. The Common corporate seal is, and, until otherwise ordered by the Board of Directors, shall be, an impression upon paper or wax, circular in form, with the words "Union Pacific Corporation" on the outer edge thereof, and the words and figures "Corporate Seal", "1969", "Utah" in the center thereof.
 
SECTION 5. Except as otherwise provided by the Act, these By-Laws may be altered, amended or repealed at a meeting of the stockholders by a majority vote of those present in person or by proxy or at any meeting of the Board of Directors by a majority vote of the directors then in office.
 
 


