FILE:UNP/UNP-8K-20080724084457.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02    Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 24, 2008, Union Pacific Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: July 24, 2008
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Union Pacific Corporation (NYSE: UNP) today reported record 2008 second quarter net income of $531 million, or $1.02 per diluted share, compared to $446 million, or $.82 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2007.
Omaha, Neb., July 24, 2008
 
"We achieved a record second quarter in the face of rising fuel costs and an estimated 5 cents earning reduction associated with Midwest flooding," said Jim Young, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "We demonstrated the resiliency of our network by quickly restoring service to our customers, which provided us with a strong finish to the quarter, driving solid revenue growth and continued productivity improvements."
 
2008 Second Quarter Summary
 
In the second quarter of 2008, Union Pacific reported record operating income of $931 million compared to $787 million in second quarter of 2007, an 18 percent improvement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Second Quarter 2008 Freight Revenue Summary versus 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2008 Outlook
 
"We expect that our diverse business mix will continue to provide us with opportunities through the year," Young added. "Although high fuel prices and a soft economy present challenges, we remain committed to ongoing productivity and customer service initiatives as we look forward to achieving a record year."
 
About Union Pacific
 
Union Pacific Corporation owns one of America's leading transportation companies. Its principal operating company, Union Pacific Railroad, links 23 states in the western two-thirds of the country and serves the fastest-growing U.S. population centers. Union Pacific's diversified business mix includes Agricultural Products, Automotive, Chemicals, Energy, Industrial Products and Intermodal. The railroad offers competitive long-haul routes from all major West Coast and Gulf Coast ports to eastern gateways.
 
 
Union Pacific connects with Canada's rail systems and is the only railroad serving all six major gateways to Mexico, making it North America's premier rail franchise.
 
Supplemental financial information is attached.
 
Additional information is available at our Web site: . Contact for investors is Jennifer Hamann at 402-544-4227. Contact for media is Donna Kush at (402) 544-3753.
www.up.com
 
 
This press release and related materials contain statements about the Corporation's future that are not statements of historical fact, including specifically statements of management regarding the estimated impact of flooding, and expectation's regarding the Corporation's business outlook, the impact and effectiveness of the Corporation's productivity and customer service initiatives, and the Corporation's financial performance for the year. These statements are, or will be, forward-looking statements as defined by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements also generally include, without limitation, information or statements regarding: expectations as to continued or increasing demand for rail transportation services; expectations regarding operational improvements, including the effectiveness of network management initiatives that have been or will be implemented to improve operations, customer service, and shareholder returns; expectations as to increased returns, cost savings, revenue growth, and earnings; expectations regarding fuel price and our ability to mitigate fuel costs; the time by which certain objectives will be achieved, including expected improvements in operations and implementation of network management initiatives; estimates of costs relating to environmental remediation and restoration; proposed new products and services; expectations that claims, lawsuits, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, labor negotiations or agreements, or other matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or liquidity; statements concerning projections, predictions, expectations, estimates or forecasts as to the Corporation's and its subsidiaries' business, financial, and operational results, and future economic performance; and statements of management's beliefs, expectations, goals, and objectives and other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts.
 
Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times that, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking information, including expectations regarding operational and financial improvements and the Corporation's future performance or results are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statement.
 
Important factors, including risk factors, could affect the Corporation's and its subsidiaries' future results and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Information regarding risk factors and other cautionary information are available in the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2007, which was filed with the SEC on February 28, 2008. The Corporation updates information regarding risk factors if circumstances require such updates in its periodic reports on Form 10-Q and its subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K (or such other reports that may be filed with the SEC).
 
Forward-looking statements speak only as of, and are based only upon information available on, the date the statements were made. The Corporation assumes no obligation to update forward-looking
 
 
information to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information. If the Corporation does update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that the Corporation will make additional updates with respect thereto or with respect to other forward-looking statements. References to our Web site are provided for convenience and, therefore, information on or available through the Web site is not, and should not be deemed to be, incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
* Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period financial statement presentation. The reclassifications include reporting freight revenues instead of commodity revenues. In addition, we modified our operating expense categories to report fuel used in railroad operations as a stand-alone category, to combine purchased services and materials into one line, and to reclassify certain other expenses among operating expense categories. These reclassifications had no impact on previously reported operating revenues, operating expenses, operating income or net income. See Union Pacific Web site under Investor Relations for reclassified 2007, 2006 and 2005 quarterly numbers.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* Adjusted Debt to Capital is a non-GAAP measure; however, we believe that it is important in evaluating our financial performance. See Union Pacific Web site under Investor Relations for a reconciliation to GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
* Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure; however, we believe that it is important in evaluating our financial performance and measures our ability to generate cash without incurring additional financing.
 
 
 
 
* Fuel consumption is computed as follows: gallons of fuel consumed divided by gross ton-miles in thousands.
 
 
 
 
 
* Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period financial statement presentation. The reclassifications include reporting freight revenues instead of commodity revenues. In addition, we modified our operating expense categories to report fuel used in railroad operations as a stand-alone category, to combine purchased services and materials into one line, and to reclassify certain other expenses among operating expense categories. These reclassifications had no impact on previously reported operating revenues, operating expenses, operating income or net income. See Union Pacific Web site under Investor Relations for reclassified 2007, 2006 and 2005 quarterly numbers.
 
 
 
 


