FILE:UNP/UNP-8K-20091210110935.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On December 9, 2009, Union Pacific Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing organizational changes involving several officers of Union Pacific Railroad Company, the principal operating subsidiary of the Company. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: December 10, 2009
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
  Union Pacific today announced several executive assignments effective January 1, 2010:
Omaha, NE, December 9, 2009
 
 
 
 
"I am pleased to announce the promotions of this group of key employees," said Jim Young, Union Pacific chairman and chief executive officer. "Our company is providing record levels of service to our customers, making continuous improvement in our safety performance, and providing consistent financial returns to our shareholders due to the capability and commitment of our employees. I am confident that our team is up to challenges that face us in a difficult economy."
In addition to Fritz, Barry J. Kanuch, chief mechanical officer, David A. Connell, vice president  Engineering, Dennis Jacobson, vice president  Premium Operations, and Robert D. Naro, vice president  Mexico Operations will report to Duffy.
Joseph M. Santamaria, vice president  Transportation, Stephen R. Barkley, vice president  Harriman Dispatching Center and Network Operations, John H. Rebensdorf, vice president  Network Planning and Operations, James A. Bell, general manager  Operating Services, and Grimaila, will report to Fritz.
Duffy joined Union Pacific in 1973. He has held a number of positions in the Finance, Marketing & Sales, and Operating departments during his career. He was named executive vice president  Operations in 1998 and is a graduate of the University of Nebraska-Omaha.
Fritz joined the company's Marketing & Sales organization as vice president  Energy in 2000. Prior to being named to his position in the Labor Relations department, he served as regional vice president  Operations in two of the company's three operating regions. He is a graduate of Bucknell University and holds a master's degree from the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern.
Turner started as a management trainee at Missouri Pacific Railroad, now a part of Union Pacific, in 1981 and has worked in the Operating and Marketing & Sales organizations before joining Labor Relations in 2008. He is a graduate of the University of Tennessee and holds an MBA from Creighton University.
Grimaila joined Missouri Pacific in 1976. He held a number of positions in the Operating department before being named to head the Safety group in 2001. He is a graduate of Texas A&M University.
About Union Pacific
Union Pacific Corporation owns one of America's leading . Its principal operating company, Union Pacific Railroad, links 23 states in the western two-thirds of the country. Union Pacific serves many of the fastest-growing U.S. population centers and provides Americans with a fuel-efficient, and safe mode of freight transportation. Union Pacific's diversified business mix includes Agricultural Products, Automotive, Chemicals, Energy, Industrial Products and Intermodal. The railroad emphasizes excellent customer service and offers competitive routes from all major West Coast and Gulf Coast ports to eastern gateways. Union Pacific connects with Canada's rail systems and is the only railroad serving all six major gateways to Mexico, making it North America's premier rail franchise.
transportation companies
environmentally responsible
Donna Kush, 402-544-3753 or dmkush@up.com
Media Contact:


