FILE:UNP/UNP-8K-20090423083022.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 23, 2009, Union Pacific Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 23, 2009
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
 
Union Pacific Corporation (NYSE: UNP) today reported 2009 first quarter net income of $362 million, or $0.72 per diluted share, compared to $443 million, or $0.85 per diluted share for the first quarter 2008.
Omaha, Neb., April 23, 2009 
"Union Pacific produced solid quarterly results despite the challenging economy," said Jim Young, Union Pacific chairman and chief executive officer. "We took decisive steps to reduce costs across our Company, while also making strong improvements in our safety performance, operating productivity and customer service."
First Quarter Summary
The weak global economy affected all six of Union Pacific's business groups. First quarter 2009 operating revenues totaled $3.4 billion versus $4.3 billion in the first quarter 2008. In addition:
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of First Quarter Freight Revenues
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
"The difficult economic conditions continue to affect our business volumes," Young said. "During this challenging time, we are reducing costs across the board, strengthening our operations and offering competitive supply chain solutions to our customers. We offer a safe, fuel-efficient, environmentally friendly transportation product that delivers value for our customers and the nation's economy."
 
About Union Pacific
Union Pacific Corporation owns one of America's leading . Its principal operating company, Union Pacific Railroad, links 23 states in the western two-thirds of the country. Union Pacific serves many of the fastest-growing U.S. population centers and provides Americans with a fuel-efficient, and safe mode of freight transportation. Union Pacific's diversified business mix includes Agricultural Products, Automotive, Chemicals, Energy, Industrial Products and Intermodal. The railroad emphasizes excellent customer service and offers competitive routes from all major West Coast and Gulf Coast ports to eastern gateways. Union Pacific connects with Canada's rail systems and is the only railroad serving all six major gateways to Mexico, making it North America's premier rail franchise.
transportation companies
environmentally responsible
.
Supplemental financial information is attached
Additional information is available at our Web site:
www.up.com
Contact for investors is Jennifer Hamann at (402) 544-4227
Contact for media is Donna Kush at (402) 544-3753
 
This press release and related materials contain statements about the Corporation's future that are not statements of historical fact, including specifically expectations regarding the Corporation's outlook regarding economic conditions and future business volumes, future operating performance, competitiveness of our service and, its ability to reduce costs. These statements are, or will be, forward-looking statements as defined by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements also generally include, without limitation, information or statements regarding: projections, predictions, expectations, estimates or forecasts as to the Corporation's and its subsidiaries' business, financial, and operational results, and future economic performance; and management's beliefs, expectations, goals, and objectives and other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts.
Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times that, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking information, including expectations regarding operational and financial improvements and the Corporation's future performance or results are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statement. Important factors, including risk factors, could affect the Corporation's and its subsidiaries' future results and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Information regarding risk factors and other cautionary information are available in the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2008, which was filed with the SEC on February 6, 2009. The Corporation updates information regarding risk factors if circumstances require such updates in its periodic reports on Form 10-Q and its subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K (or such other reports that may be filed with the SEC).
Forward-looking statements speak only as of, and are based only upon information available on, the date the statements were made. The Corporation assumes no obligation to update forward-looking information to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information. If the Corporation does update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that the Corporation will make additional updates with respect thereto or with respect to other forward-looking statements. References to our Web site are provided for convenience and, therefore, information on or available through the Web site is not, and should not be deemed to be, incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


