FILE:UNP/UNP-8K-20090122081402.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On January 22, 2009, Union Pacific Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: January 22, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Union Pacific Corporation (NYSE: UNP) today reported 2008 fourth quarter net income of $661 million, or $1.31 per diluted share, a 35 percent increase compared to $491 million, or $0.93 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2007. The company posted quarterly operating revenues of $4.3 billion in 2008 versus $4.2 billion in the fourth quarter 2007.
OMAHA, Neb., January 22, 2009
 
"Union Pacific posted solid earnings for the quarter and the year, despite numerous challenges," said Jim Young, Union Pacific chairman and chief executive officer. "We increased profitability by operating a safe and efficient railroad that delivered excellent service and value for our customers. In the fourth quarter, our operating ratio improved significantly as we benefited from lower fuel costs, better pricing, and productivity gains, all of which helped offset the impact of declining volumes in this difficult economic environment."
 
 
Fourth Quarter Summary
 
Although business volumes declined in the quarter, Union Pacific reported operating income of $1.1 billion in the fourth quarter 2008, a 32 percent year-over-year improvement driven by lower fuel costs, continued pricing gains and strong productivity. The company's freight revenues grew two percent in the quarter to $4.1 billion. In addition:
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Fourth Quarter Freight Revenues
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2008 Full Year Summary
 
For the full year 2008, Union Pacific reported net income of $2.3 billion, or $4.54 per diluted share, compared to $1.9 billion, or $3.46 per diluted share in 2007. The company posted operating revenues of $18.0 billion in 2008 compared to $16.3 billion in 2007. Operating income increased to $4.1 billion, a 21 percent improvement over 2007.
 
 
 
 
Outlook
 
"Although we expect 2009 will be a difficult year for our Company, our customers and our employees, we are challenging ourselves to deliver an even higher level of performance," Young said. "In this tough economic environment, we remain dedicated to providing excellent service to our customers, making strategic investments for long-term growth and producing strong financial returns."
 
 
 
About Union Pacific
 
Union Pacific Corporation owns one of America's leading transportation companies. Its principal operating company, Union Pacific Railroad, links 23 states in the western two-thirds of the country and serves the fastest-growing U.S. population centers. Union Pacific's diversified business mix includes Agricultural Products, Automotive, Chemicals, Energy, Industrial Products and Intermodal. The railroad offers competitive long-haul routes from all major West Coast and Gulf Coast ports to eastern gateways. Union Pacific connects with Canada's rail systems and is the only railroad serving all six major gateways to Mexico, making it North America's premier rail franchise.
 
Supplemental financial information is attached.
 
Additional information is available at our Web site:
www.up.com.
 
Contact for investors is Jennifer Hamann at (402) 544-4227.
 
Contact for media is Donna Kush at (402) 544-3753.
 
 
This press release and related materials contain statements about the Corporation's future that are not statements of historical fact, including specifically expectations regarding the Corporation's outlook regarding economic conditions, future operating performance, ability to make, and plans for, strategic investments, and financial returns. These statements are, or will be, forward-looking statements as defined by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements also generally include, without limitation, information or statements regarding: expectations as to continued or increasing demand for rail transportation services; expectations regarding operational improvements, including the effectiveness of network management initiatives that have been or will be implemented to improve operations, customer service, and shareholder returns; expectations as to increased returns, cost savings, revenue growth, and earnings; expectations regarding fuel price and our ability to mitigate fuel costs; the time by which certain objectives will be achieved, including expected improvements in operations and implementation of network management initiatives; estimates of costs relating to environmental remediation and restoration; proposed new products and services; expectations that claims, lawsuits, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, labor negotiations or agreements, or other matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or liquidity; statements concerning projections, predictions, expectations, estimates or forecasts as to the Corporation's and its subsidiaries' business, financial, and operational results, and future economic performance; and statements of management's beliefs, expectations, goals, and objectives and other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts.
 
Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times that, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking information, including expectations regarding operational and financial improvements and the Corporation's future performance or results are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statement.
 
Important factors, including risk factors, could affect the Corporation's and its subsidiaries' future results and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Information regarding risk factors and other cautionary information are available in the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2007, which was filed with the SEC on February 28, 2008. The Corporation updates information regarding risk factors if circumstances require such updates in its periodic reports on Form 10-Q and its subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K (or such other reports that may be filed with the SEC).
 
Forward-looking statements speak only as of, and are based only upon information available on, the date the statements were made. The Corporation assumes no obligation to update forward-looking information to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information. If the Corporation does update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that the Corporation will make additional updates with respect thereto or with respect to other forward-looking statements. References to our Web site are provided for convenience and, therefore, information on or available through the Web site is not, and should not be deemed to be, incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
* Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period financial statement presentation. The reclassifications include reporting freight revenues instead of commodity revenues. In addition, we modified our operating expense categories to report fuel used in railroad operations as a stand-alone category, to combine purchased services and materials into one line, and to reclassify certain other expenses among operating expense categories. These reclassifications had no impact on previously reported operating revenues, operating expenses, operating income or net income. See Union Pacific Web site under Investor Relations for reclassified 2007, 2006 and 2005 quarterly numbers.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* Adjusted Debt to Capital and Return on Invested Capital are non-GAAP measures; however, we believe that they are important in evaluating our financial performance. See Union Pacific Web site a reconciliation to GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
* Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure; however, we believe that it is important in evaluating our financial performance and measures our ability to generate cash without incurring additional financing.
 
 
 
 
* Fuel consumption rate is computed as follows: gallons of fuel consumed divided by gross ton-miles in thousands.
 
 
 
 
 
* Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period financial statement presentation. The reclassifications include reporting freight revenues instead of commodity revenues. In addition, we modified our operating expense categories to report fuel used in railroad operations as a stand-alone category, to combine purchased services and materials into one line, and to reclassify certain other expenses among operating expense categories. These reclassifications had no impact on previously reported operating revenues, operating expenses, operating income or net income. See Union Pacific Web site under Investor Relations for reclassified 2007, 2006 and 2005 quarterly numbers.
 
 
 
 


