FILE:UNP/UNP-8K-20100730151534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On July 30, 2010, Union Pacific Corporation (the Company) issued a press release regarding the upcoming retirement of Dennis J. Duffy, Vice Chairman  Operations of Union Pacific Railroad Company (the Railroad), the principal operating subsidiary of the Company, and the election of Lance M. Fritz to serve as Executive Vice President  Operations and succeed Mr. Duffy as the chief operating officer of the Railroad. The election of Mr. Fritz took place at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Company on July 29, 2010.
Mr. Fritz joined the Railroad in July 2000 as Vice President and General Manager  Energy. From April of 2005 until July of 2006, Mr. Fritz served as Regional Vice President  North and served as Regional Vice President  South from July of 2006 until March of 2008. Mr. Fritz was appointed Vice President  Labor Relations in March of 2008 and served in that role until his appointment to his current position, Vice President  Operations, on January 1, 2010. Mr. Fritz will assume his new position on September 1, 2010.
A copy of the referenced press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference in this current report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 30, 2010
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
Union Pacific Corporation today announced Dennis J. Duffy, vice chairman  Operations, has declared his intention to retire this fall. Duffy joined the company in 1973 and held positions in the Finance, Marketing & Sales, and Operating departments during his career. He is the longest-serving head of Union Pacific's Operating department in company history, serving since 1998.
Omaha, Neb., July 30, 2010 
"Dennis has incredible industry knowledge, a keen sense of anticipating what it takes to help us grow with our customers, and a tireless work ethic," said James R. Young, Union Pacific chairman, president and chief operating officer. "His unwavering commitment to our company's values of focusing on safety, service and performance, ensuring high ethical standards, and working as a team has led Dennis to make many significant contributions to Union Pacific. We are grateful for his service."
Union Pacific has appointed Lance M. Fritz executive vice president  Operations, effective September 1. He will be responsible for all aspects of Union Pacific's railroad operations.
Fritz, 47, joined the company's Marketing & Sales organization as vice president  Energy in 2000. He previously served as regional vice president  Northern Region, regional vice president  Southern Region, and vice president  Labor Relations prior to being named vice president  Operations in December 2009. Fritz is a graduate of Bucknell University and holds a master's degree from the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. Prior to joining Union Pacific, he was a general manager for Fiskars, a leading global supplier of home, garden and outdoors consumer products; and served as vice president of merchandising for Cooper Industries, a global electrical components and tools manufacturer.
"Lance has a proven record of success in each of his areas of responsibility," Young said. "The combination of his experience, vision and leadership makes him the right person at the right time to lead our Operating department."
About Union Pacific
Union Pacific Corporation owns one of America's leading . Its principal operating company, Union Pacific Railroad, links 23 states in the western two-thirds of the country. Union Pacific serves many of the fastest-growing U.S. population centers and provides Americans with a fuel-efficient,  and safe mode of freight transportation. Union Pacific's diversified business mix includes Agricultural Products, Automotive, Chemicals, Energy, Industrial Products and Intermodal. The railroad emphasizes excellent customer service and offers competitive routes from all major West Coast and Gulf Coast ports to eastern gateways. Union Pacific connects with Canada's rail systems and is the only railroad serving all six major gateways to Mexico.
transportation companies
environmentally friendly
For further information, contact Donna Kush at 402-544-3753 or or Tom Lange at 402-544-3560 or .
dmkush@up.com
tomlange@up.com
www.up.com
www.facebook.com/unionpacific
www.twitter.com/unionpacific


