FILE:UNP/UNP-8K-20120726141446.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On July 26, 2012, Union Pacific Corporation issued a press release announcing that the Board of Directors of Union Pacific Corporation (the "Company") elected John J. (Jack) Koraleski as a member of the Company's Board of Directors effective immediately. Mr. Koraleski is the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and Union Pacific Railroad Company (the "Railroad"), the principal operating subsidiary of the Company. Mr. Koraleski also will serve on the Board of the Railroad. All directors of the Company concurrently serve on the Board of Directors of the Railroad. James R. Young will continue to serve as Chairman of the Board for both the Company and the Railroad and remains actively involved in Board matters. A copy of the press release is attached to this Current Report as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 26, 2012
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Union Pacific Corporation today announced that John J. (Jack) Koraleski, 61, has been elected to the company's board of directors, effective immediately. Koraleski serves as president and chief executive officer of Union Pacific Corporation, as well as president and CEO of Union Pacific Railroad Company, Union Pacific Corporation's principle operating subsidiary. All Union Pacific Corporation board members serve concurrently on the railroad's board of directors.
Omaha, Neb., July 26, 2012 
"Jack's election to the board of directors reflects his unique combination of expertise and vision that will complement the business acumen and experience of our board members," said Jim Young, Union Pacific chairman. "Jack's election also is a vote of confidence in his ability to lead North America's premier railroad as it continues focusing on delivering customer and shareholder value."
Since joining the railroad in 1972, Koraleski has held a number of executive positions including controller of Union Pacific Corporation, executive vice president  Marketing and Sales and executive vice president  Finance and Information Technology of Union Pacific Railroad. He also has held positions in the railroad's Real Estate and Administrative departments. Koraleski earned both a bachelor's and master's degree in business administration from the University of Nebraska at Omaha.
About Union Pacific
One of America's iconic companies, Union Pacific celebrates its 150
th
anniversary in 2012. Abraham Lincoln signed the Pacific Railway Act of July 1, 1862, creating the original Union Pacific. Today, Union Pacific Railroad is the principal operating company of Union Pacific Corporation (NYSE: UNP), linking 23 states in the western two-thirds of the country by rail and providing freight solutions and logistics expertise to the global supply chain. From 2000 through 2011, Union Pacific spent more than $31 billion on its network and operations, making needed investments in America's infrastructure and enhancing its ability to provide safe, reliable, fuel-efficient and environmentally responsible freight transportation. Union Pacific's diversified business mix includes Agricultural Products, Automotive, Chemicals, Coal, Industrial Products and Intermodal. The railroad serves many of the fastest-growing U.S. population centers and emphasizes
excellent customer service. Union Pacific operates competitive routes from all major West Coast and Gulf Coast ports to eastern gateways, connects with Canada's rail systems and is the only railroad serving all six major Mexico gateways.
Union Pacific media contact: Tom Lange at 402-544-3560 or , @tlange23
tomlange@up.com
www.up.com
www.up150.com
www.facebook.com/unionpacific
www.twitter.com/unionpacific


