FILE:UNP/UNP-8K-20120719082400.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 19, 2012, Union Pacific Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 19, 2012
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
 Union Pacific Corporation (NYSE: UNP) today reported 2012 second quarter net income of $1 billion, or $2.10 per diluted share, compared to $785 million, or $1.59 per diluted share, in the second quarter 2011.
Omaha, Neb., July 19, 2012
"We're clearly delivering on the strength of our diverse franchise," said Jack Koraleski, Union Pacific chief executive officer. "Volume growth across many of our market sectors offset the 17 percent decline in coal volumes. When combined with solid pricing, efficient network operations and continued productivity gains, the net result was our best-ever quarter by nearly every financial measure."
 
 
 
Second Quarter Summary
Second quarter business volumes, as measured by total revenue carloads, were up slightly compared to 2011. Volume growth in four of Union Pacific's six business groups  automotive, chemicals, industrial products and intermodal  was offset by declines in shipments of coal and agricultural products. Quarterly operating revenue increased 7 percent in the second quarter 2012 to $5.2 billion versus $4.9 billion in the second quarter 2011. In addition:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Second Quarter Freight Revenues
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2012 Outlook
"Looking ahead to the second half of the year, the global economic outlook has become more uncertain and coal volumes remain a challenge," Koraleski said. "However, we'll continue to take advantage of the opportunities provided by our diverse franchise to drive record financial results and increase shareholder returns once again this year."
About Union Pacific
It was 150 years ago that Abraham Lincoln signed the Pacific Railway Act of July 1, 1862, creating the original Union Pacific. One of America's iconic companies, today, Union Pacific Railroad is the principal operating company of Union Pacific Corporation (NYSE: UNP), linking 23 states in the western two-thirds of the country by rail and providing freight solutions and logistics expertise to the global supply chain. From 2000 through 2011, Union Pacific spent more than $31 billion on its network and operations, making needed investments in America's infrastructure and enhancing its ability to provide safe, reliable, fuel-efficient and environmentally responsible freight transportation. Union Pacific's diversified business mix includes Agricultural Products, Automotive, Chemicals, Coal, Industrial Products and Intermodal. The railroad serves many of the fastest-growing U.S. population centers and emphasizes excellent customer service. Union Pacific operates competitive routes from all major West Coast and Gulf Coast ports to eastern gateways, connects with Canada's rail systems and is the only railroad serving all six major Mexico gateways.
Investor contact is Michelle Gerhardt, (402) 544-4227.
Media contact is Donna Kush, (402) 544-3753.
Supplemental financial information is attached.
 
 
 
This press release and related materials contain statements about the Corporation's future that are not statements of historical fact, including specifically the statements regarding the Corporation's expectations with respect to economic conditions and its ability to take advantage of growth opportunities, including opportunities in markets other than coal; and whether it can generate record financial results and increase returns to shareholders. These statements are, or will be, forward-looking statements as defined by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements also generally include, without limitation, information or statements regarding: projections, predictions, expectations, estimates or forecasts as to the Corporation's and its subsidiaries' business, financial, and operational results, and future economic performance; and management's beliefs, expectations, goals, and objectives and other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts.
Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times that, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking information, including expectations regarding operational and financial improvements and the Corporation's future performance or results are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statement. Important factors, including risk factors, could affect the Corporation's and its subsidiaries' future results and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Information regarding risk factors and other cautionary information are available in the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2011, which was filed with the SEC on February 3, 2012. The Corporation updates information regarding risk factors if circumstances require such updates in its periodic reports on Form 10-Q and its subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K (or such other reports that may be filed with the SEC).
Forward-looking statements speak only as of, and are based only upon information available on, the date the statements were made. The Corporation assumes no obligation to update forward-looking information to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information. If the Corporation does update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that the Corporation will make additional updates with respect thereto or with respect to other forward-looking statements. References to our website are provided for convenience and, therefore, information on or available through the website is not, and should not be deemed to be, incorporated by reference herein.
 
UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (unaudited)
 
 
UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
Freight Revenues Statistics (unaudited)
 
 
 
 
UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Financial Position (unaudited)
 
 
 
UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited)
 
 
 
UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
Operating and Performance Statistics (unaudited)
 
 
 
 
UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (unaudited)
 
 
UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
Freight Revenues Statistics (unaudited)
 
 
 
 
UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
Non-GAAP Measures Reconciliation to GAAP
 
 
 
 
 


