FILE:UNP/UNP-8K-20121115125548.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On November 15, 2012, Union Pacific Corporation (the Company) announced that its Board of Directors voted to increase the Company's quarterly dividend from 60 cents per share to 69 cents per share, which will be payable on January 2, 2013 to stockholders of record on November 30, 2012. A copy of the press release is attached hereto to as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 15, 2012
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
 Union Pacific Corporation (NYSE: UNP) announced that its Board of Directors voted today to increase the quarterly dividend on the company's common shares by 15 percent to 69 cents per share. The increased dividend is payable January 2, 2013, to stockholders of record November 30, 2012.
OMAHA, Neb., November 15, 2012
"We're generating strong free cash flow while making significant capital investments that add value for our customers," said Jack Koraleski, Union Pacific chief executive officer. "We remain confident in our business opportunities going forward and our ability to increase shareholder returns."
Union Pacific has paid dividends on its common stock for 113 consecutive years.
About Union Pacific
It was 150 years ago that Abraham Lincoln signed the Pacific Railway Act of July 1, 1862, creating the original Union Pacific. One of America's iconic companies, today, Union Pacific Railroad is the principal operating company of Union Pacific Corporation (NYSE: UNP), linking 23 states in the western two-thirds of the country by rail and providing freight solutions and logistics expertise to the global supply chain. From 2000 through 2011, Union Pacific spent more than $31 billion on its network and operations, making needed investments in America's infrastructure and enhancing its ability to provide safe, reliable, fuel-efficient and environmentally responsible freight transportation. Union Pacific's diversified business mix includes Agricultural Products, Automotive, Chemicals, Coal, Industrial Products and Intermodal. The railroad serves many of the fastest-growing U.S. population centers and emphasizes excellent customer service. Union Pacific operates competitive routes from all major West Coast and Gulf
 
 
Coast ports to eastern gateways, connects with Canada's rail systems and is the only railroad serving all six major Mexico gateways.
Investor contact is Michelle Gerhardt, (402) 544-4227.
Media contact is Donna Kush, (402) 544-3753.
 
 
This press release contains statements about the Corporation's future that are not statements of historical fact, including specifically the statements regarding the Corporation's expectations with respect to its future business opportunities; and its ability to increase its dividend and returns to shareholders. These statements are, or will be, forward-looking statements as defined by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements also generally include, without limitation, information or statements regarding: projections, predictions, expectations, estimates or forecasts as to the Corporation's and its subsidiaries' business, financial, and operational results, and future economic performance; and management's beliefs, expectations, goals, and objectives and other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts.
Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times that, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved including forward -looking statements regarding its long-term business fundamentals and its ability to capitalize on growth opportunities and reward shareholders. Important factors, including risk factors, could affect the Corporation's and its subsidiaries' future results and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Information regarding risk factors and other cautionary information are available in the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2011, which it filed with the SEC on February 3, 2012. The Corporation updates information regarding risk factors if circumstances require such updates in its periodic reports on Form 10-Q and its subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K (or such other reports that may be filed with the SEC).
Forward-looking statements speak only as of, and are based only upon information available on, the date the statements were made. The Corporation assumes no obligation to update forward-looking information to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information. If the Corporation does update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that the Corporation will make additional updates with respect thereto or with respect to other forward-looking statements. References to our website are provided for convenience and, therefore, information on or available through the website is not, and should not be deemed to be, incorporated by reference herein.
 


