Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We note these factors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except as required under the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, we disclaim and do not undertake any obligations to update or revise publicly any forward looking statements in this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions, or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosure we make on related subjects in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q and Current Reports on Form 8 K filed with or furnished to the SEC. 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. Any of the factors described below could significantly and negatively affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results or credit ratings, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or risks that we currently consider immaterial, could also negatively affect our business and operations. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. We have historically experienced, and may continue to experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, and may result in volatility of our stock price. Future operating results will depend on many factors, including: demand for our products; pricing decisions, and those of our competitors, including decisions to increase or decrease prices; regulatory approvals for our products; timing and levels of spending for research and development, sales and marketing; timing and levels of reimbursement from third party payors for our products; timing and market acceptance of new product introductions by us and or competitors; development or expansion of business infrastructure in new clinical and geographic markets; acquisition of new products and companies; tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate; timing and recognition of certain research and development milestones and license fees; ability to control our costs; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and economic and market instability. During the next several years, we will be very dependent on the continued commercial success of our primary products REVLIMID, THALOMID and VIDAZA. During the next several years, the growth of our business will be largely dependent on the commercial success of REVLIMID and our other products. REVLIMID was approved by the FDA, the EC, the Swissmedic, the TGA, and in October 2008 by Health Canada for treatment in combination with dexamethasone for multiple myeloma patients who have received at least one prior therapy. In addition, REVLIMID was approved by the FDA and the Canadian Therapeutic Products Directorate for treatment of patients with transfusion dependent anemia due to low or intermediate 1 risk MDS, associated with a deletion 5q cytogenetic abnormality with or without additional cytogenetic abnormalities. We cannot predict whether REVLIMID will continue to gain the acceptance of regulators, physicians, patients and other key opinion leaders as a relatively safe and effective drug that has certain advantages as compared to existing or future therapies. We are also seeking to introduce REVLIMID in additional international markets as well as obtaining approvals for additional indications both in the United States and internationally. A delay in gaining the requisite regulatory approvals could negatively impact our growth plans and the value of our common stock. 16 Table of Contents THALOMID was approved by the FDA for treatment in combination with dexamethasone for patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma and is also approved for the treatment and suppression of cutaneous manifestations of ENL, an inflammatory complication of leprosy. In April 2008, the TGA approved a supplemental filing granting THALOMID marketing approval for use in combination with melphalan and prednisone for patients with untreated multiple myeloma or ineligible for high dose chemotherapy and also granted THALOMID marketing approval in combination with dexamethasone for induction therapy prior to high dose chemotherapy with autologous stem cell rescue, for the treatment of patients with untreated multiple myeloma. In addition, in April 2008, THALOMID was granted full marketing authorization by the EC for use in combination with melphalan and prednisone as a treatment for patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. If unexpected adverse experiences are reported in connection with the use of THALOMID by patients, physician and patient comfort with the product could be undermined, the commercial success of THALOMID could be affected and the acceptance of our other products, including REVLIMID, may be adversely impacted. VIDAZA has been shown to reverse the effects of DNA hypermethylation and promote subsequent gene re expression. VIDAZA was licensed from Pharmacia Upjohn, now part of Pfizer, and was approved by the FDA for the treatment of all subtypes of MDS. Additionally, VIDAZA was granted orphan drug designation by the FDA for the treatment of AML. In December 2008, VIDAZA was granted full marketing authorization by the EC for the treatment of adult patients who are not eligible for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation with Intermediate 2 and high risk MDS according to the IPSS or CMML with 10 29 percent marrow blasts without myeloproliferative disorder, or AML with 20 30 percent blasts and multi lineage dysplasia, according to WHO classification. Our revenues and profits would be negatively impacted if adverse experiences were reported in connection with any of these three products or generic versions were to be approved and launched. See We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and our products may be subject to generic competition for further discussion related to possible generic competition for THALOMID. Sales of our products are dependent on third party reimbursement. Sales of our products will depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products will be paid by health maintenance, managed care, pharmacy benefit and similar health care management organizations, or reimbursed by government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other third party payors. These health care management organizations and third party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Additionally, the containment of health care costs has become a priority of federal and state governments, and the prices of drugs have been a focus in this effort. The U.S. government, state legislatures and foreign governments have shown significant interest in implementing cost containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products. Adoption of price controls and cost containment measures in new jurisdictions or programs, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could further limit our net revenue and results. If these organizations and third party payors do not consider our products to be cost effective compared to other available therapies, they may not reimburse providers or consumers of our products or, if they do, the level of reimbursement may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. 17 Table of Contents If we are unsuccessful in developing and commercializing our products, our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely affected which could have a negative impact on the value of our securities. Many of our drug candidates are in the early or mid stages of research and development and will require the commitment of substantial financial resources, extensive research, development, preclinical testing, clinical trials, manufacturing scale up and regulatory approval prior to being ready for sale. Moreover, our commercially available products may require additional studies with respect to approved indications as well as new indications pending approval. If it becomes too expensive to sustain our present commitment of resources on a long term basis, we will be unable to continue certain necessary research and development activities. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our clinical testing will render satisfactory results, or that we will receive required regulatory approvals for our new products or new indications. If any of our products, even if developed and approved, cannot be successfully commercialized, our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely affected which could have a negative impact on the value of our common stock. If our products are not accepted by the market, demand for our products will deteriorate or not materialize at all. It is necessary that REVLIMID, THALOMID, VIDAZA, FOCALIN and FOCALIN XR, and the RITALIN family of drugs achieve and maintain market acceptance. A number of factors may adversely impact the degree of market acceptance of our products, including the products efficacy, safety and advantages, if any, over competing products, as well as the reimbursement policies of third party payors, such as government and private insurance plans. In particular, thalidomide, when used by pregnant women, has resulted in serious birth defects, and the negative history associated with thalidomide and birth defects may decrease the market acceptance of THALOMID. In addition, the stem cell products that we are developing through our Celgene Cellular Therapeutics subsidiary may represent substantial departures from established treatment methods and will compete with a number of traditional products and therapies which are now, or may be in the future, manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies. Furthermore, public attitudes may be influenced by claims that stem cell therapy is unsafe, and stem cell therapy may not gain the acceptance of the public or the medical community. If our products are not accepted by the market, demand for our products will deteriorate or not materialize at all. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to extensive government regulation which presents numerous risks to us. The discovery, preclinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing, restricted distribution systems (such as our S.T.E.P.S. and RevAssist programs), marketing and labeling of pharmaceuticals and biologics are all subject to extensive regulation, including, without limitation, the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the U.S. Public Health Service Act, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other federal and state statutes, including anti kickback, antitrust and false claims laws, as well as similar laws in foreign jurisdictions. If we or our contractors and collaborators are delayed in receiving, or are unable to obtain at all, necessary governmental approvals, we will be unable to effectively market our products. The testing, marketing and manufacturing of our products require regulatory approval, including approval from the FDA and, in some cases, from the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, or governmental authorities outside of the United States that perform roles similar to those of the FDA and EPA, including the EC, the Swissmedic, the TGA and Health Canada. Certain of our pharmaceutical products, such as FOCALIN, fall under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970 that requires authorization by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency, or DEA, of the U.S. Department of Justice in order to handle and distribute these products. 18 Table of Contents The regulatory approval process presents several risks to us: In general, preclinical tests and clinical trials can take many years, and require the expenditure of substantial resources, and the data obtained from these tests and trials can be susceptible to varying interpretation that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval; Delays or rejections may be encountered during any stage of the regulatory process based upon the failure of the clinical or other data to demonstrate compliance with, or upon the failure of the product to meet, a regulatory agencys requirements for safety, efficacy and quality or, in the case of a product seeking an orphan drug indication, because another designee received approval first or receives approval of other labeled indications; Requirements for approval may become more stringent due to changes in regulatory agency policy, or the adoption of new regulations or legislation; The scope of any regulatory approval, when obtained, may significantly limit the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed and reimbursed and may impose significant limitations in the nature of warnings, precautions and contra indications that could materially affect the sales and profitability of the drug; Pricing and reimbursement controls and policies may become more stringent both inside and outside the United States which could affect the sales and profitability of our drugs; Approved products, as well as their manufacturers, are subject to continuing and ongoing review, and discovery of previously unknown problems with these products or the failure to adhere to manufacturing or quality control requirements may result in restrictions on their manufacture, sale or use or in their withdrawal from the market; Regulatory authorities and agencies of the United States or foreign governments may promulgate additional regulations restricting the sale of our existing and proposed products; Guidelines and recommendations published by various non governmental organizations can reduce the use of our products; Once a product receives marketing approval, we may not market that product for broader or different applications, and the FDA may not grant us approval with respect to separate product applications that represent extensions of our basic technology. In addition, the FDA may withdraw or modify existing approvals in a significant manner or promulgate additional regulations restricting the sale of our present or proposed products. The FDA may also request that we perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our existing or proposed products if we or others identify side effects after our products are on the market; Products, such as REVLIMID, that are subject to accelerated approval can be subject to an expedited withdrawal if the post marketing study commitments are not completed with due diligence, the post marketing restrictions are not adhered to or are shown to be inadequate to assure the safe use of the drug, or evidence demonstrates that the drug is not shown to be safe and effective under its conditions of use. Additionally, promotional materials for such products are subject to enhanced surveillance, including pre approval review of all promotional materials used within 120 days following marketing approval and a requirement for the submissions 30 days prior to initial dissemination of all promotional materials disseminated after 120 days following marketing approval; and 19 Table of Contents Our labeling and promotional activities relating to our products as well as our post marketing activities are regulated by the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission, The United States Department of Justice, the DEA, state regulatory agencies and foreign regulatory agencies and are subject to associated risks. In addition, individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws. If we fail to comply with regulations regarding the promotion and sale of our products, such as prohibiting promotion of off label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance has not been obtained, such agencies could bring an enforcement action against us that could inhibit our marketing capabilities as well as result in significant penalties. We recently sent a letter to doctors warning that a study of the drug Innohep to treat dangerous blood clots suggests that the drug may increase the risk of death in elderly patients. The FDA has posted the letter on its website, which recommends that doctors consider alternatives to Innohep in patients with deep vein thrombosis, life threatening blood clots in major veins such as in the legs. As a result, the FDA has requested that we revise the package insert to reference the suggested study results relating to Innohep. Innohep was being marketed by Pharmion at the time we acquired the company on March 7, 2008. Since our acquisition of Pharmion, all Innohep sales are included in other product sales since we consider Innohep to be non core. The FDA approval process would allow for the approval of an ANDA or 505(b)(2) application for a generic version of our approved products upon the expiration, through passage of time or successful legal challenge, of relevant patent or non patent exclusivity protection. ANDAs and 505(b)(2) applications are generally less burdensome than full NDAs in that, in lieu of clinical data, these applications rely in whole, or in part, upon the safety and efficacy findings of the referenced approved product in conjunction with bridging data, typically bioequivalence data. The FDAs Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research currently regulates under 21 CFR Parts 1270 and 1271 human tissue or cells intended for transplantation, implantation, infusion or transfer to a human recipient. Part 1271 requires tissue establishments to screen and test donors, to prepare and follow written procedures for the prevention of the spread of communicable disease and to register the establishment with FDA. It also provides for inspection by the FDA of tissue establishments. Currently, we are required to be, and are, licensed to operate in New York, New Jersey, Maryland and California, four of the states in which we currently collect placentas and umbilical cord blood for our allogeneic and private stem cell banking businesses. If other states adopt similar licensing requirements, we would need to obtain such licenses to continue operating. If we are delayed in receiving, or are unable to obtain at all, necessary licenses, we will be unable to provide services in those states and this would impact negatively on our revenues. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and our products may be subject to generic competition. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce patents, protect trade secrets, obtain licenses to technology owned by third parties and to conduct our business without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical firms, including ours, can be uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions including those related to our restricted distribution systems (such as our S.T.E.P.S. and RevAssist programs). 20 Table of Contents Under the current U.S. patent laws, patent applications filed in the United States on or before November 28, 2000 are maintained in secrecy until patents issue. Patent applications filed in the U.S. on or after November 29, 2000 are not published until approximately 18 months after their earliest claimed priority date, and publication of discoveries in the scientific and patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries. Thus, we may discover sometime in the future that we, or the third parties from whom we have licensed patents or patent applications, were not the first to make and or file the inventions covered by the patents and patent applications in which we have or seek rights. In the event that a third party has also filed a patent application for any of the inventions claimed in our patents or patent applications, or those we have licensed in, we could become involved in an interference proceeding declared by the PTO, to determine priority of invention or an opposition proceeding in other places such as Europe. Such an interference or opposition could result in the loss of an issued U.S. or foreign patent, respectively, or loss of any opportunity to secure U.S. patent protection for that invention. Even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us, such proceedings could result in substantial cost and delay to us and limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition, the coverage sought in a patent application may not be obtained or may be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. Consequently, if our pending applications, or pending applications that we have licensed in from third parties, do not result in the issuance of patents or if any patents that are issued do not provide significant proprietary protection or commercial advantage, our ability to sustain the necessary level of intellectual property rights upon which our success depends may be restricted. Moreover, different countries have different procedures for obtaining patents, and patents issued in different countries provide different degrees of protection against the use of a patented invention by others. Therefore, if the issuance to us or our licensors, in a given country, of a patent covering an invention is not followed by the issuance in other countries of patents covering the same invention, or if any judicial interpretation of the validity, enforceability or scope of the claims in a patent issued in one country is not similar to the interpretation given to the corresponding patent issued in another country, our ability to protect our intellectual property in other countries may be limited. Furthermore, even if our patent applications, or those we have licensed in, are issued, our competitors may still challenge the scope, validity or enforceability of such patents in court, requiring us to engage in complex, lengthy and costly litigation. Alternatively, our competitors may be able to design around such patents and compete with us using the resulting alternative technology. If any of our issued or licensed patents are infringed, we may not be successful in enforcing our or our licensors intellectual property rights or defending the validity or enforceability of our issued patents and subsequently not be able to develop or market applicable product exclusively. We rely upon unpatented proprietary and trade secret technology that we try to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborative partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors. If these agreements are breached, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Despite precautions taken by us, others may obtain access to or independently develop our proprietary technology or such technology may be found to be non proprietary or not a trade secret. Our right to practice the inventions claimed in certain patents that relate to THALOMID arises under licenses granted to us by others, including The Rockefeller University, EntreMed and CMCC. In addition to these patents, which relate to thalidomide, we have also licensed from CMCC certain patents relating to thalidomide analogs. In December 2002, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with CMCC and EntreMed Inc. pursuant to which CMCC exclusively licensed to us certain patents and patent applications that relate to analogs, metabolites, precursors and hydrolysis products of thalidomide, and all stereoisomers thereof. Our license under the December 2002 agreement is worldwide and royalty bearing, and we have complete control over the prosecution of the licensed thalidomide analog patent rights. Under this December 2002 agreement, we are obligated to comply with certain milestones for a REVLIMID approval and royalties with respect to sales of REVLIMID. The December 2002 agreement also grants us an option for a certain time period to inventions in the field of thalidomide analogs that may be developed at CMCC in the laboratory of Dr. Robert DAmato, pursuant to the terms and conditions of a separate Sponsored Research Agreement negotiated between CMCC and us. 21 Table of Contents Further, while we believe these confidentiality agreements and license agreements to be valid and enforceable, our rights under these agreements may not continue or disputes concerning these agreements may arise. If any of the foregoing should occur, we may be unable to rely upon our unpatented proprietary and trade secret technology, or we may be unable to use the third party proprietary technology we have licensed in, either of which may prevent or hamper us from successfully pursuing our business. It is also possible that third party patent applications and patents could issue with claims that broadly cover certain aspects of our business or of the subject matter claimed in the patents or patent applications owned or optioned by us or licensed to us, which may limit our ability to conduct our business or to practice under our patents, and may impede our efforts to obtain meaningful patent protection of our own. If patents are issued to third parties that contain competitive or conflicting claims, we may be legally prohibited from pursuing research, development or commercialization of potential products or be required to obtain licenses to these patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. We may be legally prohibited from using patented technology, may not be able to obtain any license to the patents and technologies of third parties on acceptable terms, if at all, or may not be able to obtain or develop alternative technologies. Consequently, if we cannot successfully defend against any patent infringement suit that may be brought against us by a third party, we may lose the ability to continue to conduct our business as we presently do, or to practice certain subject matter delineated by patent claims that we have exclusive rights to, whether by ownership or by license, and that may have a material adverse effect on our business. Under the Hatch Waxman Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, products covered by approved NDAs or supplemental NDAs may be protected by periods of patent and or non patent exclusivity. During the exclusivity periods, the FDA is generally prevented from granting effective approval of an ANDA. Upon the expiration of the applicable exclusivities, through passage of time or successful legal challenge, the FDA may grant effective approval of an ANDA for a generic drug, or may accept reference to a previously protected NDA in a 505(b)(2) application. Depending upon the scope of the applicable exclusivities, any such approval could be limited to certain formulations and or indications/claims, i.e., those not covered by any outstanding exclusivities. We rely upon trademarks and service marks to protect our rights to the intellectual property used in our business. We have grown rapidly, and if we fail to adequately manage that growth our business could be adversely impacted. We have an aggressive growth plan that has included substantial and increasing investments in research and development, sales and marketing, and facilities. We plan to continue to grow and our plan of growth contains various risks, some of which we cannot control. For example: we will need to generate higher revenues to cover a higher level of operating expenses (including clinical trial costs, expenses associated with the regulatory approval process and commercialization of our products), and our ability to do so may depend on factors that we do not control; we will need to manage complexities associated with a larger and faster growing multinational organization; and we will need to accurately anticipate demand for the products we manufacture and maintain adequate manufacturing, marketing and distribution capacity, and our ability to do so may depend on factors that we do not control. 22 Table of Contents If the third parties upon whom we rely fail to produce on a timely basis the API, encapsulation, finishing and packaging services in the volumes that we require or fail to meet quality standards and maintain necessary licensure from regulatory authorities, we may be unable to meet demand for our products, potentially resulting in lost revenues. We have contracted with third party manufacturers to provide API, encapsulation, finishing services and packaging to meet our needs. We intend to continue to utilize third parties as needed to produce certain of our products on a commercial scale. The API for THALOMID is manufactured in our Zofingen, Switzerland, manufacturing facility. We have a contract manufacturing agreement with Aptuit Inc. UK as a secondary API supplier. With regard to drug product manufacturing, we have contract manufacturing relationships with Penn Pharmaceuticals Services Limited and Institute of Drug Technology Australia Limited, for the formulation and encapsulation of the finished dosage form of THALOMID capsules. Sharp Corporation performs the packaging of the final product. The API for REVLIMID is manufactured in our Zofingen, Switzerland, manufacturing facility. We have a contract manufacturing agreement with Aptuit Inc. UK as a secondary API supplier. With regard to drug product manufacturing, we perform the formulation and encapsulation of the finished dosage form of REVLIMID capsules in our Boudry, Switzerland manufacturing facility. We have a contract manufacturing relationship with Penn Pharmaceuticals Services Limited as a secondary supplier. Our Boudry, Switzerland facility performs the packaging of final product. In addition, Sharp Corporation and Cimex AG perform packaging of the final product. The API for VIDAZA is supplied by Ash Stevens, Inc. We have a contract manufacturing agreement with Baxter GmBH and Ben Venue Laboratories, Inc. for the packaging, formulation and filling the product into vials. The API for FOCALIN is currently obtained from two suppliers, Johnson Matthey Inc. and Siegfried USA, Inc., and we rely on a single manufacturer, Mikart, Inc., for the tableting and packaging of FOCALIN finished product. The API for FOCALIN XR is supplied by both Siegfried and Johnson Matthey Inc. on behalf of Novartis for the manufacture of FOCALIN XR. In all the countries where we sell our products, governmental regulations exist to define standards for manufacturing, packaging, labeling and storing. All of our suppliers of raw materials and contract manufacturers must comply with these regulations. Failure to do so could result in supply interruptions. In the United States, the FDA requires that all suppliers of pharmaceutical bulk material and all manufacturers of pharmaceuticals for sale in or from the United States achieve and maintain compliance with the FDAs cGMP regulations and guidelines. Failure of our third party manufacturers to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on them or us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, disgorgement, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of our products. In addition, before any product batch produced by our manufacturers can be shipped, it must conform to release specifications pre approved by regulators for the content of the pharmaceutical product. If the operations of one or more of our manufacturers were to become unavailable for any reason, any required FDA review and approval of the operations of an alternative supplier could cause a delay in the manufacture of our products. If our outside manufacturers do not meet our requirements for quality, quantity or timeliness, or do not achieve and maintain compliance with all applicable regulations, demand for our products or our ability to continue supplying such products could substantially decline. 23 Table of Contents We utilize third parties for the distribution of our products in the U.S. We have contracted with Ivers Lee Corporation, d/b/a Sharp, a specialty distributor, to distribute THALOMID and REVLIMID in the United States. If Sharp does not perform its obligations, our ability to distribute THALOMID and REVLIMID in the United States may be impacted for a limited period of time. We have contracted with Cardinal Health SPS, a specialty distributor, to distribute VIDAZA in the United States. If Cardinal Health SPS does not perform its obligations, our ability to distribute VIDAZA in the United States may be impacted for a limited period of time. If our distributors fail to perform and we cannot secure a replacement distributor within a reasonable period of time, we may experience adverse effects to our business and results of operations. We are continuing to establish foreign marketing and distribution capabilities. We are continuing to establish marketing and distribution capabilities in international markets with respect to our products. At the same time, we are in the process of obtaining necessary governmental and regulatory approvals to sell our products in certain countries. If we have not successfully completed and implemented adequate marketing and distribution support services upon our receipt of such approvals, our ability to effectively launch our products in these countries would be severely restricted. Certain risks related to the commercial success of VIDAZA may present significant challenges to us. Risks related to the commercial success and future growth of VIDAZA are summarized as follows: our ability to achieve additional marketing authorizations for VIDAZA; continued acceptance by regulators, physicians, patients and other key decision makers as a safe, superior therapeutic as compared to currently existing or future treatments for MDS; and our ability to successfully compete with other approved MDS therapies. The integration of entities we acquire may present significant challenges to us. Achieving the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of entities will depend in part upon whether we can integrate our businesses in an efficient and effective manner. Our integration of these entities involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to: demands on management related to the increase in our size after the acquisition; the diversion of managements attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations; higher integration costs than anticipated; failure to achieve expected synergies and costs savings; difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees; 24 Table of Contents difficulties in the assimilation of different cultures and practices, as well as in the assimilation of broad and geographically dispersed personnel and operations; and difficulties in the integration of departments, systems, including accounting systems, technologies, books and records, and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls (including internal control over financial reporting required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002) and related procedures and policies. If we cannot successfully integrate acquired businesses, we may experience material negative consequences to our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be unable to retain skilled personnel and maintain key relationships. The success of our business depends, in large part, on our continued ability to (i) attract and retain highly qualified management, scientific, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel, (ii) successfully integrate large numbers of new employees into our corporate culture and (iii) develop and maintain important relationships with leading research and medical institutions and key distributors. Competition for these types of personnel and relationships is intense. Among other benefits, we use stock options to attract and retain personnel. Stock option accounting rules require us to recognize all stock based compensation costs as expenses. These or other factors could reduce the number of shares management and our board of directors grants under our stock option plans. We cannot be sure that we will be able to attract or retain skilled personnel or maintain key relationships, including key employees of Pharmion, or that the costs of retaining such personnel or maintaining such relationships will not materially increase. The hazardous materials we use in our research, development and other business operations could result in significant liabilities, which could exceed our insurance coverage and financial resources. We use certain hazardous materials in our research, development and general business activities. While we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with the federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use of these materials, we cannot be certain that accidental injury or contamination will not occur. Any such accident or contamination could result in substantial liabilities that could exceed our insurance coverage and financial resources. Additionally, the cost of compliance with environmental and safety laws and regulations may increase in the future, requiring us to expend more financial resources either in compliance or in purchasing supplemental insurance coverage. Litigation on a variety of matters may subject us to significant legal expenses and liability. From time to time, we may be subject to litigation on a variety of matters, including intellectual property, licensing arrangements with other persons and product liability. Litigation requires the expenditure of significant time and resources, and is inherently unpredictable. If any litigation were to have an unanticipated adverse result, there could be a material impact on our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. See also Legal Proceedings contained in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 25 Table of Contents The pharmaceutical and biotech industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. The pharmaceutical and biotech industry in which we operate is highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Our present and potential competitors include major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as specialty pharmaceutical firms, including but not limited to: Amgen, which potentially competes with our TNF and kinase inhibitors; AstraZeneca plc, which potentially competes in clinical trials with our IMiDs compounds and TNF inhibitors; Biogen Idec Inc. and Genzyme Corporation, both of which are generally developing drugs that address the oncology and immunology markets; Bristol Myers Squibb Co., which potentially competes in clinical trials with our IMiDs compounds and TNF inhibitors; Eisai Co., Ltd., SuperGen, Inc. and Johnson Johnson compete or may potentially compete with VIDAZA; Genentech, Inc., which potentially competes in clinical trials with our IMiDs compounds and TNF inhibitors; Johnson Johnson, which potentially competes with certain of our proprietary programs including our oral anti inflammatory programs; Novartis, which potentially competes with our IMiDs compounds and kinase programs; Pfizer, which potentially competes in clinical trials with our kinase inhibitors; and Takeda and Johnson Johnson, which compete with REVLIMID and THALOMID in the treatment of multiple myeloma and in clinical trials with our IMiDs compounds. Many of these companies have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. We also experience competition from universities and other research institutions, and in some instances, we compete with others in acquiring technology from these sources. The pharmaceutical industry has undergone, and is expected to continue to undergo, rapid and significant technological change, and we expect competition to intensify as technical advances in the field are made and become more widely known. The development of products, including generics, or processes by our competitors with significant advantages over those that we are seeking to develop could cause the marketability of our products to stagnate or decline. Changes in our effective income tax rate could impact our earnings. Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our effective income tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, the accounting for stock options and other share based payments, changes in tax laws and rates, future levels of research and development spending, changes in accounting standards, future levels of capital expenditures, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, the outcome of examinations by the IRS and other jurisdictions, the accuracy of our estimates for unrecognized tax benefits and changes in overall levels of pre tax earnings. The impact on our income tax provision resulting from the above mentioned factors may be significant and could have an impact on our results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Our operations may be impacted by currency fluctuations that may cause our earnings to fluctuate. We utilize foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign currency risk, but not to engage in currency speculation. We use these forward contracts to hedge certain forecasted transactions and balance sheet exposures denominated in foreign currencies. We use derivative instruments, including those not designated as part of a hedging transaction, to manage our exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates but not eliminate our anticipated exposure to currency fluctuations. The use of these derivative instruments modifies the exposure of these risks with the intent to reduce our risk or cost. Any significant foreign exchange rate fluctuations within a short period of time could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may experience an adverse market reaction if we are unable to meet our financial reporting obligations. As we continue to expand at a rapid pace, the development of new and or improved automated systems will remain an ongoing priority. During this expansion period, our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements in our financial reporting. Such misstatements may result in litigation and or negative publicity and possibly cause an adverse market reaction that may negatively impact our growth plans and the value of our common stock. The current global credit and financial market conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. Sales of our products are dependent, in large part, on reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private health insurers, distribution partners and other organizations. As a result of the current global credit and financial market conditions, these organizations may be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations or may delay payment. In addition, federal and state health authorities may reduce Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements, and private insurers may increase their scrutiny of claims. A reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement could negatively affect our product sales and revenue. Due to the recent tightening of global credit, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third party contractors, suppliers or collaborators. We rely on third parties for several important aspects of our business, including portions of our product manufacturing, royalty revenue, clinical development of future collaboration products, conduct of clinical trials and raw materials. If such third parties are unable to satisfy their commitments to us, our business would be adversely affected. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for you to sell the common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive. The market for our shares of common stock may be subject to disruptions that could cause volatility in their prices. In general, the current global economic crisis has caused substantial market volatility and instability. Any such disruptions or continuing volatility may adversely affect the value of our common stock. The intra day price of our common stock fluctuated from a high of $77.39 per share to a low of $45.44 per share in 2008. On December 31, 2008, our common stock closed at a price of $55.28 per share. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. In addition to current global economic instability in general, the following key factors may have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock: results of our clinical trials or adverse events associated with our marketed products; fluctuations in our commercial and operating results; announcements of technical or product developments by us or our competitors; market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks in particular; stock market conditions generally; 27 Table of Contents governmental regulation; new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings; health care legislation; public announcements regarding medical advances in the treatment of the disease states that we are targeting; patent or proprietary rights developments; changes in pricing and third party reimbursement policies for our products; the outcome of litigation involving our products or processes related to production and formulation of those products or uses of those products; competition; and investor reaction to announcements regarding business or product acquisitions. The number of shares of our common stock eligible for future sale could also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2008, there were outstanding stock options and warrants for 34,184,262 shares of common stock, of which 19,015,262 were currently vested and exercisable at an exercise price between $0.04 and $73.92, per share, with a weighted average exercise price of $25.15 per share. In addition, our operations may be materially affected by conditions in the global markets and economic conditions throughout the world, including the current global economic and market instability. The global market and economic climate may continue to deteriorate because of many factors beyond our control, including continued economic instability and market volatility, rising interest rates or inflation, terrorism or political uncertainty. In the event of a continued or future market downturn in general and or the biotechnology sector in particular, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Our shareholder rights plan and certain charter and by law provisions may deter a third party from acquiring us and may impede the stockholders ability to remove and replace our management or board of directors. Our board of directors has adopted a shareholder rights plan, the purpose of which is to protect stockholders against unsolicited attempts to acquire control of us that do not offer a fair price to all of our stockholders. The rights plan may have the effect of dissuading a potential acquirer from making an offer for our common stock at a price that represents a premium to the then current trading price. Our board of directors has the authority to issue, at any time, without further stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, and to determine the price, rights, privileges and preferences of those shares. An issuance of preferred stock could discourage a third party from acquiring a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Additionally, our board of directors has adopted certain amendments to our by laws intended to strengthen the boards position in the event of a hostile takeover attempt. These provisions could impede the stockholders ability to remove and replace our management and or board of directors. Furthermore, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti takeover law, which may also dissuade a potential acquirer of our common stock. 28 Table of Contents AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our current reports on Form 8 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and Annual Reports on Form 10 K are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC, and all such reports and amendments to such reports filed have been and will be made available, free of charge, through our website (http://www.celgene.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such filing. Such reports will remain available on our website for at least 12 months. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. The public may read and copy any materials filed by us with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our corporate headquarters, which is located in Summit, New Jersey on approximately 45 acres of land, was purchased in 2004 and consists of several buildings, which house our administrative, sales, marketing and research functions. Our international headquarters is located in Boudry, Switzerland and includes a drug product manufacturing facility to perform formulation, encapsulation, packaging, warehousing and distribution. We operate an API manufacturing facility located in Zofingen, Switzerland which has the capability to produce multiple drug substances. The facility is being used to produce REVLIMID and THALOMID API to supply global markets and may also be used to produce drug substance for our future drugs and drug candidates. We occupy the following facilities under operating lease arrangements that have remaining lease terms greater than one year. Under these lease arrangements, we also are required to reimburse the lessors for real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, maintenance and other operating costs. All leases are with unaffiliated parties. 73,500 square feet of laboratory and office space in Warren, New Jersey. The two leases for this facility extend through May 2012 and July 2010, respectively, and contain five year renewal options. Annual rent for these facilities is approximately $1.1 million. 78,200 square feet of laboratory and office space in San Diego, California. The lease for this facility has a term ending in August 2012 with one five year renewal option. Annual rent for this facility is approximately $2.2 million and is subject to specified annual rental increases. 78,000 square feet of office space in Basking Ridge, New Jersey with a term ending September 2011 at an annual cost of $1.4 million. 20,800 square feet of office and laboratory space in Cedar Knolls, New Jersey. The lease for this facility has a term ending in October 2010 with renewal options for additional five year terms. Annual rent for this facility is approximately $0.3 million and is subject to specified annual rental increases. 29 Table of Contents 27,700 square feet of office space in Overland Park, Kansas with a term ending in May 2010 at an annual cost of $0.4 million. 55,900 square feet of office and research space in San Francisco, California with a term ending in September 2016 at an annual cost of $2.4 million. We also lease a number of offices under various lease agreements in Europe, Canada, Australia and Asia. The minimum annual rents may be subject to specified annual rent increases. At December 31, 2008, the non cancelable lease terms for these operating leases expire at various dates between 2009 and 2017 and in some cases include renewal options. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS THALOMID Barr Laboratories, Inc., (Barr) a generic drug manufacturer located in Pomona, New York, filed an ANDA for the treatment of ENL in the manner described in our label and seeking permission from the FDA to market a generic version of 50mg, 100mg and 200mg THALOMID. Under the federal Hatch Waxman Act of 1984, any generic manufacturer may file an ANDA with a certification (a Paragraph IV certification) challenging the validity or infringement of a patent listed in the FDAs Orange Book four years after the pioneer company obtains approval of its NDA. On or after December 5, 2006, Barr mailed notices of Paragraph IV certifications alleging that the following patents listed for THALOMID in the Orange Book are invalid, unenforceable, and or not infringed: U.S. Patent Nos. 6,045,501 (the 501 patent), 6,315,720 (the 720 patent), 6,561,976 (the 976 patent), 6,561,977 (the 977 patent), 6,755,784 (the 784 patent), 6,869,399 (the 399 patent), 6,908,432 (the 432 patent), and 7,141,018 (the 018 patent). The 501, 976, and 432 patents do not expire until August 28, 2018, while the remaining patents do not expire until October 23, 2020. On January 18, 2007, we filed an infringement action in the United States District Court of New Jersey against Barr. By bringing suit, we are entitled up to a maximum 30 month stay, from the date of Celgenes receipt of a Paragraph IV certification, against the FDAs approval of a generic applicants application to market a generic version of THALOMID. In June 2007, United States Patent No. 7,230,012, or 012 patent, was issued to us claiming formulations of thalidomide and was then timely listed in the Orange Book. Barr sent us a supplemental Paragraph IV certification against the 012 patent and alleged that the claims of the 012 patent, directed to formulations which encompass THALOMID, were invalid. On August 23, 2007, we filed an infringement action in the United States District Court of New Jersey with respect to the 012 patent. On or after October 4, 2007, Barr filed a second supplemental notice of Paragraph IV certifications relating to the 150mg dosage strength of THALOMID alleging that the 501 patent, 720 patent, 976 patent, 977 patent, 784 patent, 399 patent, 432 patent and the 018 patent are invalid, unenforceable, and or not infringed. On November 14, 2007, we filed an infringement action in the United States District Court of New Jersey against Barr. All three actions have subsequently been consolidated. We intend to enforce our patent rights. If the ANDA is approved by the FDA, and Barr is successful in challenging our patents listed in the Orange Book for THALOMID, Barr would be permitted to sell a generic thalidomide product. If we are unsuccessful in the suits and the FDA were to approve a comprehensive education and risk management distribution program for a generic version of thalidomide, sales of THALOMID could be significantly reduced in the United States by the entrance of a generic thalidomide product, consequently reducing our revenue. On July 3, 2008, we filed a motion to amend the complaint in the case to assert our 5,629,327 and 6,235, 756 patents (the cancer patents) licensed from Childrens Hospital in Boston. That same day we also filed a new and separate complaint against Barr asserting those same two patents. 30 Table of Contents FOCALIN and FOCALIN XR On August 19, 2004, we, together with our exclusive licensee Novartis, filed an infringement action in the United States District Court of New Jersey against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc., (Teva) in response to notices of Paragraph IV certifications made by Teva in connection with the filing of an ANDA for FOCALIN. The notification letters from Teva contend that United States Patent Nos. 5,908,850, or 850 patent, and 6,355,656, or 656 patent, are invalid. After the suit was filed, Novartis listed another patent, United States Patent No. 6,528,530, or 530 patent, in the Orange Book in association with the FOCALIN NDA. The original 2004 action asserted infringement of the 850 patent. Teva amended its answer during discovery to contend that the 850 patent was not infringed by the filing of its ANDA, and that the 850 patent is not enforceable due to an allegation of inequitable conduct. Fact discovery in the original 2004 action expired on February 28, 2006. At about the time of the filing of the 850 patent infringement action, reexamination proceedings for the 656 patent were initiated in the U.S. PTO. On September 28, 2006, the U.S. PTO issued a Notice of Intent to Issue Ex Parte Reexamination Certificate, and on March 27, 2007, the Reexamination Certificate for the 656 patent issued. On December 21, 2006, Celgene and Novartis filed an action in the United States District Court of New Jersey against Teva for infringement of the 656 patent. Teva filed an amended answer and counterclaim on March 23, 2007. The amended counterclaim seeks a declaratory judgment of patent invalidity, noninfringement, and unenforceability. The statutory 30 month stay, to which Paragraph IV certifications (including those below) are entitled to, expired on January 9, 2007, and Teva proceeded to market with a generic version of FOCALIN. Novartis sales of FOCALIN have been significantly reduced in the United States by the entrance of a generic FOCALIN product, consequently reducing our revenue from royalties associated with these sales. A claim has been made for damages resulting from Tevas sales and for a permanent injunction prohibiting future sales by Teva. The parties currently are engaged in fact discovery with respect to the 656 patent and other issues related to Tevas product launch. No trial date has been set. The 530 patent is not part of this patent infringement action against Teva. On September 14, 2007, we, together with our exclusive licensee Novartis, filed an infringement action in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. in response to a notice of a Paragraph IV certification made by Teva in connection with the filing of an ANDA for FOCALIN XR. The notification letter from Teva contends that claims in United States Patent Nos. 5,908,850 and 6,528,530 are invalid, unenforceable, and not infringed by the proposed Teva products, and it contends that United States Patent Nos. 5,837,284 and 6,635,284 are invalid and not infringed by the proposed Teva products. Celgene and Novartis asserted each of these patents and additionally asserted United States Patent No. 6,355,656 in their complaint against Teva. Teva filed an answer and counterclaim on November 5, 2007. The counterclaim seeks a declaratory judgment of patent invalidity, noninfringement, and unenforceability with respect to the patents in suit. No trial date has been set. If we are unsuccessful in proving infringement or defending our patents, Novartis sales of FOCALIN XR could be significantly reduced in the United States by the entrance of a generic FOCALIN XR product, consequently reducing our revenue from royalties associated with these sales. On October 5, 2007, we, together with our exclusive licensee Novartis, filed an infringement action in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey against IntelliPharmaCeutics Corp. (IPC) in response to a notice of a Paragraph IV certification made by IPC in connection with the filing of an ANDA for FOCALIN XR. The notification letter from IPC contends that claims in United States Patent Nos. 5,908,850, 5,837,284, and 6,635,284 are not infringed by the proposed IPC products. The notification letter also contends that claims in United States Patent Nos. 5,908,850, 6,355,656, 6,528,530, 5,837,284, and 6,635,284 are invalid, and that claims in United States Patent Nos. 5,908,850, 6,355,656 and 6,528,530 are unenforceable. In their complaint against IPC, Celgene and Novartis asserted United States Patent Nos. 5,908,850, 6,355,656, 6,528,530, 5,837,284, and 6,635,284. IPC filed an answer and counterclaim on November 20, 2007. The counterclaim seeks a declaratory judgment of patent invalidity, noninfringement, and unenforceability with respect to Patent Nos. 5,908,850, 6,355,656, and 6,528,530, and it seeks a declaratory judgment of patent invalidity and noninfringement with respect to Patent Nos. 5,837,284 and 6,635,284. No pretrial or trial dates have been set. If we are unsuccessful in proving infringement or defending our patents, Novartis sales of FOCALIN XR could be significantly reduced in the United States by the entrance of a generic FOCALIN XR product, consequently reducing our revenue from royalties associated with these sales. 31 Table of Contents On November 8, 2007, we, together with our exclusive licensee Novartis, filed an infringement action in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey against Actavis South Atlantic LLC and Abrika Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (collectively, Abrika) in response to a notice of a Paragraph IV certification made by Abrika in connection with the filing of an ANDA for FOCALIN XR. The notification letter from Abrika contends that claims in United States Patent Nos. 5,908,850, 6,355,656, 5,837,284, and 6,635,284 are not infringed by the proposed Abrika products, and it contends that claims in United States Patent Nos. 5,908,850, 6,355,656, 6,528,530, 5,837,284 and 6,635,284 are invalid. In their complaint against Abrika, Celgene and Novartis asserted United States Patent Nos. 5,908,850, 6,355,656, 6,528,530, 5,837,284, and 6,635,284. No pretrial or trial dates have been set. If we are unsuccessful in proving infringement or defending our patents, Novartis sales of FOCALIN XR could be significantly reduced in the United States by the entrance of a generic FOCALIN XR product, consequently reducing our revenue from royalties associated with these sales. On November 16, 2007, we, together with our exclusive licensee Novartis, filed an infringement action in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey against Barr and Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in response to a notice of a Paragraph IV certification made by Barr in connection with the filing of an ANDA for FOCALIN XR. The notification letter from Barr contends that claims in United States Patent Nos. 5,908,850, 6,355,656, 5,837,284, and 6,635,284 are not infringed by the proposed Barr products, and it contends that claims in United States Patent Nos. 5,908,850, 6,355,656, 6,528,530, 5,837,284 and 6,635,284 are invalid. In their complaint against Barr, Celgene and Novartis asserted United States Patent Nos. 5,908,850, 6,355,656, 6,528,530, 5,837,284, and 6,635,284. No pretrial or trial dates have been set. If we are unsuccessful in proving infringement or defending our patents, Novartis sales of FOCALIN XR could be significantly reduced in the United States by the entrance of a generic FOCALIN XR product, consequently reducing our revenue from royalties associated with these sales. RITALIN LA On December 4, 2006, we, together with our exclusive licensee Novartis, filed an infringement action in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey against Abrika Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Abrika Pharmaceuticals, LLP, (collectively, Abrika Pharmaceuticals) in response to a notice of a Paragraph IV certification made by Abrika Pharmaceuticals in connection with the filing of an ANDA for RITALIN LA 20 mg, 30 mg, and 40 mg generic products. The notification letter from Abrika Pharmaceuticals contends that claims in United States Patent Nos. 5,837,284 and 6,635,284 are invalid and are not infringed by the proposed Abrika Pharmaceuticals products. In their complaint against Abrika Pharmaceuticals, Celgene and Novartis asserted United States Patent Nos. 5,837,284 and 6,635,284. Abrika Pharmaceuticals filed an answer and counterclaim in the New Jersey court on June 1, 2007. The counterclaim seeks a declaratory judgment of patent invalidity, noninfringement, and unenforceability with respect to the patents in suit. On September 26, 2007, Abrika Pharmaceuticals sent a Paragraph IV certification to Celgene and Novartis in connection with the filing of an ANDA supplement with respect to Abrika Pharmaceuticals proposed generic 10 mg RITALIN LA product. Celgene and Novartis filed an amended complaint against Abrika Pharmaceuticals on November 5, 2007 that includes infringement allegations directed to Abrika Pharmaceuticals proposed generic 10 mg RITALIN LA product. Abrika Pharmaceuticals filed an answer and counterclaim to the amended complaint on December 5, 2007. The counterclaim seeks a declaratory judgment of patent invalidity, noninfringement, and unenforceability with respect to the patents in suit. No trial date has been set. If we are unsuccessful in proving infringement or defending our patents, Novartis sales of RITALIN LA could be significantly reduced in the United States by the entrance of a generic RITALIN LA product, consequently reducing our revenue from royalties associated with these sales. 32 Table of Contents On October 4, 2007, we, together with our exclusive licensee Novartis, filed an infringement action in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey against KV Pharmaceutical Company (KV) in response to a notice of a Paragraph IV certification made by KV in connection with the filing of an ANDA for RITALIN LA. The notification letter from KV contends that claims in United States Patent Nos. 5,837,284 and 6,635,284 are not infringed by the proposed KV products. In their complaint against KV, Celgene and Novartis asserted United States Patent Nos. 5,837,284 and 6,635,284. KV filed an answer and counterclaim on November 26, 2007. The counterclaim seeks a declaratory judgment of patent invalidity, noninfringement, and unenforceability with respect to the patents in suit. No pretrial or trial dates have been set. If we are unsuccessful in proving infringement or defending our patents, Novartis sales of RITALIN LA could be significantly reduced in the United States by the entrance of a generic RITALIN LA product, consequently reducing our revenue from royalties associated with these sales. On October 31, 2007, we, together with our exclusive licensee Novartis, filed an infringement action in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey against Barr and Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in response to a notice of a Paragraph IV certification made by Barr in connection with the filing of an ANDA for RITALIN LA. The notification letter from Barr contends that claims in United States Patent Nos. 5,837,284 and 6,635,284 are invalid and not infringed by the proposed Barr products. In their complaint against Barr, Celgene and Novartis asserted United States Patent Nos. 5,837,284 and 6,635,284. No pretrial or trial dates have been set. If we are unsuccessful in proving infringement or defending our patents, Novartis sales of RITALIN LA could be significantly reduced in the United States by the entrance of a generic RITALIN LA product, consequently reducing our revenue from royalties associated with these sales. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS None. 33 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES (a) MARKET INFORMATION Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol CELG. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the intra day high and low prices per share of common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market: High Low 2008 Fourth Quarter $ 66.50 $ 45.44 Third Quarter 77.39 56.00 Second Quarter 65.90 56.88 First Quarter 62.20 46.07 2007 Fourth Quarter $ 75.44 $ 41.26 Third Quarter 72.23 56.50 Second Quarter 66.95 52.40 First Quarter 58.60 49.46 Cumulative Total Return 12/03 12/04 12/05 12/06 12/07 12/08 Celgene Corporation $ 100.00 $ 118.18 $ 288.77 $ 512.75 $ 411.85 $ 492.69 SP 500 100.00 108.99 112.26 127.55 132.06 81.23 NASDAQ Composite 100.00 108.59 110.08 120.56 132.39 78.72 NASDAQ Biotechnology 100.00 106.13 109.14 110.25 115.30 100.75 * $100 Invested on 12/31/03 in Stock or Index Including Reinvestment of Dividends, Fiscal Year Ending December 31. 34 Table of Contents (b) HOLDERS The closing sales price per share of common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on February 5, 2009 was $55.08. As of January 31, 2009, there were approximately 319,292 holders of record of our common stock. (c) DIVIDEND POLICY We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth and, therefore, do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. (d) EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION The following table summarizes the equity compensation plans under which our common stock may be issued as of December 31, 2008: Number of Number of securities to be issued Weighted average securities remaining upon exercise of exercise price of available for future outstanding outstanding issuance under equity Plan Category options and warrants options and warrants compensation plans Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 32,326,528 $ 41.84 16,938,083 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders 1,857,734 $ 7.55 Total 34,184,262 $ 39.98 16,938,083 The acquisition of Pharmion in March 2008 resulted in our acquisition of Pharmions 2000 Stock Incentive Plan and the 2001 Non Employee Director Stock Option Plan. Neither plan has been approved by our stockholders and no future awards will be granted under either plan. As a result of the acquisition of Anthrogenesis in December 2002, we acquired the Anthrogenesis Qualified Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan and the Non Qualified Recruiting and Retention Stock Option Plan. Neither plan has been approved by our stockholders. No future awards will be granted under either plan. 35 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following Selected Consolidated Financial Data should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes thereto, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and other financial information included elsewhere in this Annual Report. The data set forth below with respect to our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 and the Consolidated Balance Sheet data as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 are derived from our Consolidated Financial Statements which are included elsewhere in this Annual Report and are qualified by reference to such Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto. The data set forth below with respect to our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 and the Consolidated Balance Sheet data as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 are derived from our Consolidated Financial Statements, which are not included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Years ended December 31, In thousands, except per share data 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Total revenue $ 2,254,781 $ 1,405,820 $ 898,873 $ 536,941 $ 377,502 Costs and operating expenses 3,718,999 980,699 724,182 453,357 334,774 Operating income (loss) (1,464,218 ) 425,121 174,691 83,584 42,728 Interest and investment income, net 84,835 109,813 40,352 24,557 28,340 Equity in losses of affiliated companies 9,727 4,488 8,233 6,923 Interest expense 4,437 11,127 9,417 9,497 9,551 Other income (expense), net 24,722 (2,350 ) 5,502 (7,509 ) 1,654 Income (loss) before tax (1,368,825 ) 516,969 202,895 84,212 63,171 Income tax provision 164,828 290,536 133,914 20,556 10,415 Net income (loss) $ (1,533,653 ) $ 226,433 $ 68,981 $ 63,656 $ 52,756 Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Net income (loss) per common share (1): Basic $ (3.46 ) $ 0.59 $ 0.20 $ 0.19 $ 0.16 Diluted $ (3.46 ) $ 0.54 $ 0.18 $ 0.18 $ 0.15 Weighted average shares (1): Basic 442,620 383,225 352,217 335,512 327,738 Diluted 442,620 431,858 407,181 390,585 345,710 (1) Amounts have been adjusted for the two for one stock split effected in February 2006. As of December 31, 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Consolidated Balance Sheets Data: Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 2,222,091 $ 2,738,918 $ 1,982,220 $ 724,260 $ 748,537 Total assets 4,445,270 3,611,284 2,735,791 1,258,313 1,107,293 Convertible notes 196,555 399,889 399,984 400,000 (Accumulated deficit) retained earnings (1,408,993 ) 124,660 (101,773 ) (170,754 ) (234,410 ) Stockholders equity 3,491,328 2,843,944 1,976,177 635,775 477,444 36 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Executive Summary Celgene Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively we or our) is a global biopharmaceutical company primarily engaged in the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative therapies designed to treat cancer and immune inflammatory related diseases. In March 2008, we acquired Pharmion Corporation to enhance our portfolio of therapies for patients with life threatening illnesses worldwide with the addition of Pharmions marketed products, and several products in development for the treatment of hematological and solid tumor cancers. By combining this new product portfolio with our existing operational and financial capabilities, we enlarged our global market share through increased product offerings and expanded clinical, regulatory and commercial capabilities. Our primary commercial stage products include REVLIMID, THALOMID and VIDAZA. REVLIMID is an oral immunomodulatory drug marketed for multiple myeloma patients who have received at least one prior therapy and for treatment of patients with transfusion dependent anemia due to low or intermediate 1 risk MDS associated with a deletion 5q cytogenetic abnormality with or without additional cytogenetic abnormalities. THALOMID is marketed for patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma and for the acute treatment of the cutaneous manifestations of moderate to severe ENL, an inflammatory complication of leprosy. VIDAZA is a pyrimidine nucleoside analog that has been shown to reverse the effects of DNA hypermethylation and promote subsequent gene re expression. VIDAZA was licensed from Pharmacia Upjohn, now part of Pfizer, and is marketed for the treatment of all subtypes of MDS. VIDAZA was granted orphan drug designation by the FDA for the treatment of MDS in the United States through May 2011. In December 2008, VIDAZA was granted full marketing authorization by the EC for the treatment of adult patients who are not eligible for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation with Intermediate 2 and high risk MDS according to the IPSS or CMML with 10 29 percent marrow blasts without myeloproliferative disorder, or AML with 20 30 percent blasts and multi lineage dysplasia, according to WHO classification. We continue to invest substantially in research and development, and the drug candidates in our pipeline are at various stages of preclinical and clinical development. These candidates include our IMiDs compounds, which are a class of compounds proprietary to us and having certain immunomodulatory and other biologically important properties in addition to our leading oral anti inflammatory agents and cell products. We believe that our primary commercial stage products and depth of our product pipeline provide the catalysts for future growth. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we reported revenue of $2.255 billion, a net loss of $1.534 billion and a diluted loss per share of $3.46. Revenue increased by $849.0 million in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to the expanded use of REVLIMID and the acquisition of former Pharmion products, including VIDAZA and THALOMID outside of the United States. The net loss and loss per share amounts were primarily due to IPRD charges and amortization of acquired intangible assets related to the Pharmion acquisition, in addition to the expensing of the October 3, 2008 royalty obligation payment to Pfizer that related to the unapproved forms of VIDAZA. 37 Table of Contents Factors Affecting Future Results Future operating results will depend on many factors, including demand for our existing products, regulatory approvals of our products and product candidates, the timing and market acceptance of new products launched by us or competing companies, the timing of research and development milestones, challenges to our intellectual property and our ability to control costs. See also Risk Factors contained in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Some of the more significant factors that we are focused on include: The ability of our products to successfully penetrate and expand in relevant markets: REVLIMID was approved by the FDA, the EC, the Swissmedic, the TGA, and in October 2008 by Health Canada for treatment in combination with dexamethasone for multiple myeloma patients who have received at least one prior therapy. In addition, REVLIMID was approved by the FDA and the Canadian Therapeutic Products Directorate for treatment of patients with transfusion dependent anemia due to low or intermediate 1 risk MDS, associated with a deletion 5q cytogenetic abnormality with or without additional cytogenetic abnormalities. We do not have long term data on the use of the product and cannot predict whether REVLIMID will continue to gain the acceptance of regulators, physicians, patients and other key opinion leaders as a relatively safe and effective drug that has certain advantages as compared to existing or future therapies. We are also seeking to introduce REVLIMID in additional international markets as well as obtaining approvals for additional indications both in the United States and internationally. A delay in gaining the requisite regulatory approvals could negatively impact our growth plans. THALOMID was approved by the FDA for treatment in combination with dexamethasone for patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma and is also approved for the treatment and suppression of cutaneous manifestations of ENL, an inflammatory complication of leprosy. In April 2008, the TGA approved a supplemental filing granting THALOMID marketing approval for use in combination with melphalan and prednisone for patients with untreated multiple myeloma or ineligible for high dose chemotherapy and also granted THALOMID marketing approval in combination with dexamethasone for induction therapy prior to high dose chemotherapy with autologous stem cell rescue, for the treatment of patients with untreated multiple myeloma. In addition, in April 2008, THALOMID was granted full marketing authorization by the EC for use in combination with melphalan and prednisone as a treatment for patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. If unexpected adverse experiences are reported in connection with the use of THALOMID by patients, physician and patient comfort with the product could be undermined, the commercial success of THALOMID could be affected and the acceptance of our other products, including REVLIMID, may be adversely impacted. VIDAZA has been shown to reverse the effects of DNA hypermethylation and promote subsequent gene re expression. VIDAZA was licensed from Pharmacia Upjohn, now part of Pfizer, and was approved by the FDA for the treatment of all subtypes of MDS. Additionally, VIDAZA was granted orphan drug designation by the FDA for the treatment of AML. In December 2008, VIDAZA was granted full marketing authorization by the EC for the treatment of adult patients who are not eligible for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation with Intermediate 2 and high risk MDS according to the IPSS or CMML with 10 29 percent marrow blasts without myeloproliferative disorder, or AML with 20 30 percent blasts and multi lineage dysplasia, according to WHO classification. Our ability to advance regulatory and clinical programs: Many of our drug candidates are in the early or mid stages of research and development and will require the commitment of substantial financial resources, extensive research, development, preclinical testing, clinical trials, manufacturing scale up and regulatory approval prior to being ready for sale. Moreover, our commercially available products may require additional studies with respect to approved indications as well as new indications pending approval. If it becomes too expensive to sustain our present commitment of resources on a long term basis, we will be unable to continue certain necessary research and development activities. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our clinical testing will render satisfactory results, or that we will receive required regulatory approvals for our new products or new indications. A major objective of our ongoing clinical programs is to broaden our knowledge about the full potential of REVLIMID and our other proprietary IMiDs compounds and to continue to evaluate them in a broad range of hematological malignancies and other cancers. Our near term focus is on evaluating REVLIMID as a treatment of CLL and NHL. 38 Table of Contents Competitive Risks: While competition could limit our products sales, we do not believe that competing products would eliminate their use entirely. Moreover, while generic competitors have and could seek to challenge our THALOMID franchise, we own intellectual property which includes, for example, U.S. patents covering our S.T.E.P.S. distribution program for the safe distribution and appropriate use of thalidomide, which all physicians, patients and pharmacies prescribing, receiving or dispensing thalidomide in the United States must follow. We also have exclusive rights to several issued patents covering THALOMID formulations, as well as the use of THALOMID in oncology and other therapeutic areas. Results of Operations Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 Total Revenue: Total revenue and related percentages for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: % Change 2008 2007 versus versus In thousands $ 2008 2007 2006 2007 2006 Net product sales: REVLIMID $ 1,324,671 $ 773,877 $ 320,558 71.2 % 141.4 % THALOMID 504,713 447,089 432,950 12.9 % 3.3 % VIDAZA 206,692 N/A N/A ALKERAN 81,734 73,551 50,337 11.1 % 46.1 % Other 19,868 5,924 7,760 235.4 % 23.7 % Total net product sales $ 2,137,678 $ 1,300,441 $ 811,605 64.4 % 60.2 % Collaborative agreements and other revenue 14,945 20,109 18,189 25.7 % 10.6 % Royalty revenue 102,158 85,270 69,079 19.8 % 23.4 % Total revenue $ 2,254,781 $ 1,405,820 $ 898,873 60.4 % 56.4 % 2008 compared to 2007: Total revenue increased by $849.0 million, or 60.4%, in 2008 compared to 2007. This increase is due to increased revenue in the United States of $379.8 million, or 31.6%, compared to 2007 and increased revenue in international markets of $469.2 million, or 230.2%. 2007 compared to 2006: Total revenue increased by $506.9 million, or 56.4%, in 2007 compared to 2006. This increase is due to increased revenue in the United States of $356.6 million, or 42.2%, compared to 2006 and increased revenue in international markets of $150.3 million, or 281.2%. Net Product Sales: 2008 compared to 2007: REVLIMID net sales increased by $550.8 million, or 71.2%, in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to increased sales in the United States and continued expansion in international markets. Increased market penetration and the increase in duration of patients using REVLIMID in multiple myeloma accounted for most of the U.S. growth. International sales growth primarily reflects the impact of the June 2007 ECs approval for the use of REVLIMID for treatment in combination with dexamethasone of patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior therapy and continued expansion in international markets and subsequent pricing, reimbursement and marketing approvals in each country. REVLIMID continued to receive positive clinical study results which were reported at major medical conferences and in peer reviewed publications. 39 Table of Contents THALOMID net sales increased by $57.6 million, or 12.9%, in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to the 2008 inclusion of international sales, resulting from the acquisition of Pharmion. In addition, U.S. price increases were offset by lower sales volumes. VIDAZA represents sales recorded subsequent to the March 7, 2008 Pharmion acquisition in both the United States and international markets. ALKERAN net sales increased by $8.2 million, or 11.1%, in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to an increase in unit sales of the injectable form. The agreement with GSK to distribute, promote and sell ALKERAN expires on March 31, 2009 and will not be renewed. Net product sales increased by $837.2 million, or 64.4% in 2008 compared to 2007. The change was comprised of net volume increases of $742.8 million, or 57.1%, as well as price increases of $93.0 million, or 7.2%, and impact of foreign exchange of $1.4 million, or 0.1%. 2007 compared to 2006: REVLIMID net sales increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to the products expanded use in the United States resulting from the FDAs June 2006 approval for treatment in combination with dexamethasone of patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior therapy in multiple myeloma and growth in Europe resulting from the June 2007 ECs approval for the use of REVLIMID in this same indication. Also contributing to the increase in sales were price increases and increased sales from our European Named Patient Program, or NPP, which offers European patients in need of treatment access to REVLIMID on a compassionate use basis. Net sales of THALOMID were higher in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to price increases, partly offset by lower sales volumes as written prescriptions declined, reflecting the expanded use of REVLIMID. ALKERAN net sales were higher in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to increased prices and a decrease in product returns. Gross to Net Sales Accruals: We record gross to net sales accruals for sales returns and allowances; sales discounts; government rebates; and chargebacks and distributor service fees. We base our sales returns allowance on estimated on hand retail/hospital inventories, measured end customer demand as reported by third party sources, actual returns history and other factors, such as the trend experience for lots where product is still being returned or inventory centralization and rationalization initiatives conducted by major pharmacy chains, as applicable. If the historical data we use to calculate these estimates does not properly reflect future returns, then a change in the allowance would be made in the period in which such a determination is made and revenues in that period could be materially affected. Under this methodology, we track actual returns by individual production lots. We analyze historic returns experience on closed lots and historical return trend rates on open lots. Any changes from the historical trend rates are considered in determining the current sales return allowance. THALOMID is drop shipped directly to the prescribing pharmacy and, as a result, wholesalers do not stock the product. REVLIMID is distributed primarily through contracted specialty pharmacies lending itself to tighter controls of inventory quantities within the supply channel and, thus, resulting in lower returns activity to date. VIDAZA and ALKERAN are sold in the United States to pharmaceutical wholesalers, who in turn distribute product to physicians, retail pharmacies, hospitals and other institutional customers. Sales discount accruals are based on payment terms extended to customers. 40 Table of Contents Government rebate accruals are based on estimated payments due to governmental agencies for purchases made by third parties under various governmental programs. U.S. Medicaid rebate accruals are based on historical payment data and estimates of future Medicaid beneficiary utilization applied to the Medicaid unit rebate amount formula established by the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services. Certain foreign markets have government sponsored programs that require rebates to be paid and accordingly the rebate accruals are determined primarily on estimated eligible sales. Chargebacks accruals are based on the differentials between product acquisition prices paid by wholesalers and lower government contract pricing paid by eligible customers covered under federally qualified programs. Distributor services accruals are based on contractual fees to be paid to the wholesale distributor for services provided. On January 28, 2008, the Fiscal Year 2008 National Defense Authorization Act was enacted, which expands TRICARE to include prescription drugs dispensed by TRICARE retail network pharmacies. TRICARE rebate accruals reflect this program expansion and are based on estimated Department of Defense eligible sales multiplied by the TRICARE rebate formula. See Critical Accounting Policies for further discussion of gross to net sales accruals. Gross to net sales accruals and the balance in the related allowance accounts for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: Returns Chargebacks and Government and Dist. In thousands $ Allowances Discounts Rebates Service Fees Total Balance at December 31, 2005 $ 5,017 $ 1,447 $ 20,960 $ 6,778 $ 34,202 Allowances for sales during 2006 23,944 18,847 22,353 57,750 122,894 Allowances for sales during prior periods 30,607 34 30,641 Credits/deductions issued for prior year sales (35,624 ) (1,481 ) (20,357 ) (6,315 ) (63,777 ) Credits/deductions issued for sales during 2006 (14,464 ) (16,551 ) (15,488 ) (47,580 ) (94,083 ) Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 9,480 $ 2,296 $ 7,468 $ 10,633 $ 29,877 Allowances for sales during 2007 22,303 27,999 28,420 72,982 151,704 Allowances for sales during prior periods 17,498 (2,776 ) 14,722 Credits/deductions issued for prior year sales (26,979 ) (2,206 ) (7,071 ) (6,725 ) (42,981 ) Credits/deductions issued for sales during 2007 (5,568 ) (25,194 ) (19,615 ) (65,275 ) (115,652 ) Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 16,734 $ 2,895 $ 9,202 $ 8,839 $ 37,670 Pharmion balance at March 7, 2008 926 283 1,266 2,037 4,512 Allowances for sales during 2008 20,624 36,024 35,456 100,258 192,362 Credits/deductions issued for prior year sales (17,066 ) (2,428 ) (7,951 ) (4,127 ) (31,572 ) Credits/deductions issued for sales during 2008 (3,419 ) (33,115 ) (27,163 ) (83,621 ) (147,318 ) Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 17,799 $ 3,659 $ 10,810 $ 23,386 $ 55,654 2008 compared to 2007: Returns and allowances decreased by $19.2 million in 2008 compared 2007 primarily due to reduced THALOMID inventory in the sales channel resulting from the 2007 THALOMID inventory centralization and rationalization at several major pharmacy chains, which also resulted in additional returns during 2007. In addition, 2007 includes an increase in THALOMID returns resulting from the anticipated increase in use of REVLIMID in multiple myeloma. We anticipate another inventory centralization and rationalization initiative to be conducted by a major pharmacy chain in early 2009 and believe that our ending returns and allowances reserve reflects the anticipated effects thereof. Discounts increased by $8.0 million in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to increased sales of REVLIMID as well as the inclusion of former Pharmion products, which resulted in additional discounts taken. 41 Table of Contents Government rebates increased by $7.0 million in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to the increased international government rebates resulting from our global expansion, as well as the inclusion of former Pharmion products. Chargebacks and distributor service fees increased by $30.1 million in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to the new TRICARE rebate program, as well as the inclusion of former Pharmion products. 2007 compared to 2006: Sales return allowances decreased in 2007 compared to 2006 due primarily to lower returns of ALKERAN IV resulting from improved expiration dating on 2006 and 2007 product sales. In addition, THALOMID returns were lower than the prior year primarily due to a 2006 THALOMID returns initiative undertaken by one large retail pharmacy chain. In response to this initiative, we introduced single sleeves of THALOMID for sale in June of 2006. Previously, THALOMID was sold only in multi sleeve package configurations. The additional trade package configuration enabled all retailers to more efficiently manage their THALOMID inventories resulting in lower 2007 returns. This decrease was partly offset by current year THALOMIDreturns, reflecting the impact of a 2007 inventory centralization and rationalization initiative conducted by several major pharmacy chains. Under this initiative, inventory was redistributed amongst individual chain stores in a S.T.E.P.S. compliant manner. This resulted in an increase in THALOMID returns as these major pharmacy chains more effectively managed their inventory levels at the chain stores. Discounts increased in 2007 compared to 2006 due primarily to increased sales of REVLIMID. Government rebate allowances increased in 2007 compared to 2006 due to increased sales of REVLIMID as well as price increases for both THALOMID and REVLIMID. Our Medicaid rebate accruals are based on the Medicaid Unit Rebate Amount formula established by the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services using the estimated Medicaid dispense quantities. REVLIMID dispenses increased resulting from the introduction of the 15mg and 25mg strength tablets. Distributor chargebacks increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to REVLIMID, THALOMID and ALKERAN IV price increases, which increased the differential between annual contract pricing available to federally funded healthcare providers and our wholesale acquisition cost. Collaborative Agreements and Other Revenue: 2008 compared to 2007: Revenues from collaborative agreements and other sources totaled $14.9 million and $20.1 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. The $5.2 million decrease in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to the elimination of license fees and amortization of deferred revenues related to Pharmion. 2007 compared to 2006: Revenues from collaborative agreements and other sources increased by $1.9 million in 2007 from the $18.2 million recorded in 2006. The increase was primarily due to an increase in license fees generated from our S.T.E.P.S. program and an increase in umbilical cord blood enrollment, collection and storage fees generated through our LifeBank USASM business. Royalty Revenue: 2008 compared to 2007: Revenues from royalties totaled $102.2 million in 2008, representing an increase of $16.9 million compared to 2007. The increase was primarily due to amounts received from Novartis on sales of FOCALIN XR, partly due to patients transitioning from FOCALIN to FOCALIN XR. We sell FOCALIN to Novartis and receive royalties on sales of Novartis FOCALIN XR. 42 Table of Contents 2007 compared to 2006: Revenues from royalties totaled $85.3 million in 2007, representing an increase of $16.2 million compared to 2006. The increase was primarily due to amounts received from Novartis on sales of their entire family of Ritalin drugs and FOCALIN XR. Royalty revenue totaled $69.1 million in 2006. Cost of Goods Sold (excluding amortization expense): Cost of goods sold and related percentages for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: In thousands $ 2008 2007 2006 Cost of goods sold (excluding amortization expense) $ 258,267 $ 130,211 $ 125,759 Increase from prior year $ 128,056 $ 4,452 $ 44,974 Percent increase from prior year 98.3 % 3.5 % 55.7 % Percent of net product sales 12.1 % 10.0 % 15.5 % 2008 compared to 2007: Cost of goods sold increased by $128.1 million in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to the inclusion of costs related to VIDAZA and THALOMID, which were obtained in the Pharmion acquisition. Also included in 2008 is $24.6 million of the $25.0 million of inventory step up cost related to the acquisition date fair value of former Pharmion inventories. Cost of sales also increased due to an increase in material costs for ALKERAN for injection and an increase in unit volume for REVLIMID, resulting in higher royalties. As a percent of net product sales, cost of goods sold increased to 12.1% in the 2008 from 10.0% in 2007 primarily due to the inclusion of higher costs for VIDAZA and ALKERAN and the $24.6 million of inventory step up cost. 2007 compared to 2006: Cost of goods sold increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to increases in REVLIMID material costs and royalty payments related to both REVLIMID and THALOMID as sales increased for these two products. The increase was partly offset by lower ALKERAN material costs related to ALKERAN for injection. As a percentage of net product sales, cost of goods sold decreased from 15.5% in 2006 to 10.0% in 2007 primarily due to the growth of REVLIMID and that products lower cost relative to our other products and sales price increases. Research and Development: Research and development expenses and related percentages for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: In thousands $ 2008 2007 2006 Research and development $ 931,218 $ 400,456 $ 259,956 Increase from prior year $ 530,762 $ 140,500 $ 66,890 Percent increase from prior year 132.5 % 54.0 % 34.6 % Percent of total revenue 41.3 % 28.5 % 28.9 % 2008 compared to 2007: Research and development expenses increased by $530.8 million in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to a $303.1 million charge for the October 3, 2008 royalty obligation payment to Pfizer that related to the unapproved forms of VIDAZA. In addition, spending on clinical programs increased by $147.4 million in support of ongoing clinical progress in multiple proprietary development programs as noted below. Regulatory spending increased by $20.2 million primarily due to the expansion of REVLIMID in international markets and costs related to apremilast, as described below. Also included in 2008 was $45.0 million in upfront payments made to Acceleron related to a research and development collaboration arrangement. The increase was partly offset by the 2007 inclusion of a combined $41.1 million in upfront payments for collaborative research and development arrangements for early stage compounds with Array BioPharma Inc. and PTC Therapeutics. 43 Table of Contents The following table provides an additional breakdown of research and development expenses: In thousands $ 2008 2007 Increase Human pharmaceutical clinical programs $ 287,412 $ 140,021 $ 147,391 Other pharmaceutical programs 579,210 202,855 376,355 Biopharmaceutical discovery and development 47,989 42,865 5,124 Placental stem cell programs 16,607 14,715 1,892 Total $ 931,218 $ 400,456 $ 530,762 Research and development expenditures support ongoing clinical progress in multiple proprietary development programs for REVLIMID, pomalidomide and other IMiDs compounds across a broad range of diseases, including NHL and CLL; for VIDAZA; amrubicin, our lead compound for small cell lung cancer; apremilast (CC 10004), our lead anti inflammatory compound that inhibits PDE 4, which results in the inhibition of multiple proinflammatory mediators such as TNF and which is currently being evaluated in Phase II clinical trials in the treatment of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis; pomalidomide and CC 11050, which are currently either being evaluated in Phase I and Phase II clinical trials and additional trials are being planned or ongoing for various disease indications; and our kinase inhibitor program, our activin inhibitor program as well as the placental stem cell program. We and Acceleron have initiated Phase II studies of ACE 011 in multiple myeloma patients suffering from cancer related bone loss. 2007 compared to 2006: Research and development expenses increased by $140.5 million in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to spending related to clinical research and development in support of multiple programs, including REVLIMID and other IMiDs across a broad range of cancers, including NHL and CLL. Expenses also increased to support ongoing research of other compounds, such as our kinase and ligase inhibitor programs and placental stem cell program. Regulatory spending increased primarily due to the expansion of REVLIMID in international markets. The expense for 2007 also included a combined $41.1 million in collaborative research and development arrangements for early stage compounds with Array and PTC. Research and development expense may continue to grow as earlier stage compounds are moved through the preclinical and clinical stages. Due to the significant risk factors and uncertainties inherent in preclinical tests and clinical trials associated with each of our research and development projects, the cost to complete such projects can vary. The data obtained from these tests and trials may be susceptible to varying interpretation that could delay, limit or prevent a projects advancement through the various stages of clinical development, which would significantly impact the costs incurred to bring a project to completion. For information about the commercial and development status and target diseases of our drug compounds, refer to the product overview table contained in Part I, Item I, Business, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 44 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative: Selling, general and administrative expenses and related percentages for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: In thousands $ 2008 2007 2006 Selling, general and administrative $ 685,547 $ 440,962 $ 329,749 Increase from prior year $ 244,585 $ 111,213 $ 152,079 Percent increase from prior year 55.5 % 33.7 % 85.6 % Percent of total revenue 30.4 % 31.4 % 36.7 % 2008 compared to 2007: Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $244.6 million in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily reflecting an increase in marketing expenses of $101.6 million, sales related costs of $65.9 million, general and administrative expenses of $63.8 million and an increase in donations to non profit foundations that assist patients with their co payments of $13.3 million. The increase reflects marketing and sales expenses related to product launch activities for REVLIMIDand THALOMID in Europe, Canada and Australia. The increase also reflects the activities related to the relaunch of VIDAZA in the United States after obtaining an expanded FDA approval to reflect new overall survival achieved in the AZA 001 survival study of patients with higher risk MDS and launch in Europe. In addition, the increase also reflects the continued expansion of our international commercial activities in over 65 countries. 2007 compared to 2006: Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $111.2 million in 2007 compared to 2006, reflecting an increase in sales force costs related to REVLIMID product launch activities in Europe and an increase in spending related to our continued expansion throughout Europe, Japan, Australia and Canada. Donations to non profit foundations that assist patients with their co payments also increased in 2007 compared to 2006. Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets: The $104.0 million in amortization of acquired intangible assets in 2008 included $102.4 million related to the March 2008 acquisition of Pharmion and $1.6 million resulting from the October 2004 acquisition of Penn T Limited. The Pharmion intangible assets are being amortized over a weighted average period of 6.5 years. The $9.1 million in amortization of acquisition intangibles in 2007 all related to the acquisition of Penn T Limited. Acquired In Process Research and Development: IPRD represents compounds under development by Pharmion at the date of acquisition that had not yet achieved regulatory approval for marketing in certain markets or had not yet been completed and have no alternative future use. The $1.74 billion estimated fair value of these intangibles was derived using the multi period excess earnings method, a form of the income approach. The IPRD primarily related to development and approval initiatives for VIDAZA IV in the EU market, the oral form of azacitidine in the U.S. and EU markets and THALOMID in the EU market. The projected cash flows for valuation purposes were based on key assumptions such as estimates of revenues and operating profits related to the programs considering their stages of development; the time and resources needed to complete the regulatory approval process for the products; and the life of the potential commercialized products and associated risks, including the inherent difficulties and uncertainties in obtaining regulatory approvals. For VIDAZA IV in the EU market, the related future net cash flows were estimated using a risk adjusted discount rate of 10.0% and an anticipated regulatory approval date in late 2008 with market exclusivity rights expected to continue through 2019. In December 2008, VIDAZA was granted full marketing authorization by the EC for the treatment of certain adult patients who are not eligible for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. For the oral form of azacitidine in the United States and European Union, the future net cash flows were estimated using a risk adjusted discount rate of 11.0% for each market. The anticipated regulatory approval in the European Union was assumed for 2013 with exclusivity continuing through 2023, and the anticipated regulatory approval in the United States was assumed for 2013 with exclusivity continuing through 2018. For THALOMID in the EU market, the future net cash flows were estimated by using a risk adjusted discount rate of 9.5% and an anticipated regulatory approval date in 2008 with exclusivity continuing through 2018. In April 2008, THALOMID was granted full marketing authorization by the EC for use in combination with melphalan and prednisone as a treatment for patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. 45 Table of Contents Interest and investment income, net: Interest and investment income, net and related percentages for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: In thousands $ 2008 2007 2006 Interest and investment income, net $ 84,835 $ 109,813 $ 40,352 Increase (decrease) from prior year $ (24,978 ) $ 69,461 $ 15,755 Percentage increase (decrease) from prior year (22.7 )% 172.1 % 64.3 % Interest and investment income was $84.8 million in 2008, representing a $25.0 million decrease from the $109.8 million recorded in 2007. The decrease was primarily due to lower average cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances resulting from the March 2008 cash payment of $746.8 million related to the Pharmion acquisition and the October 3, 2008 payment of $425.0 million to Pfizer where we prepaid our royalty obligation under the June 7, 2001 5 azacytidine license in full, in addition to reduced yields on invested balances. Interest and investment income, net included other than temporary impairment losses on marketable securities available for sale totaling $2.4 million in 2008 and $5.5 million 2007. Interest and investment income, net increased by $69.5 million in 2007 compared to 2006 due to higher average cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances resulting from the November 2006 issuance of an additional 20,000,000 shares of our common stock, which generated net proceeds of $1.006 billion. Equity in losses of affiliated companies: Under the equity method of accounting, we recorded losses of $3.7 million, $4.5 million and $8.2 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In addition, impairment losses of $6.0 million were recorded in 2008. The impairment losses were based on an evaluation of several factors, including an other than temporary decrease in fair value of an equity investment below our cost. The $3.7 million decrease in losses in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to a charge of $3.1 million for in process research and development related to an acquisition made by one of our investment companies in 2006. Interest expense: Interest expense was $4.4 million, $11.1 million and $9.4 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and primarily reflected interest and amortization of debt issuance costs related to the $400 million convertible notes issued on June 3, 2003. The $6.7 million decrease in 2008 was primarily due to a substantial conversion of convertible debt into our common stock in December 2007 and the completion of conversions in June 2008. Interest expense increased $1.7 million in 2007 compared to 2006 due to the inclusion of a full years interest on the note payable to Siegfried Ltd. and Siegfried Dienste AG (together referred to herein as Siegfried), resulting from the December 2006 acquisition of the API manufacturing facility in Zofingen, Switzerland. Other income (expense), net: Other income (expense), net for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: In thousands $ 2008 2007 2006 Other income (expense), net $ 24,722 $ (2,350 ) $ 5,502 Increase (decrease) in income from prior year $ 27,072 $ (7,852 ) $ 12,220 46 Table of Contents Other income (expense), net was income of $24.7 million in 2008 and an expense of $2.4 million in 2007. The $27.1 million increase in income was primarily due to favorable foreign exchange rates, which was partly offset by an other than temporary impairment loss recorded on an equity investment. The expense in 2007 included expenses related to a termination benefit resulting from the modification of certain outstanding stock options of a terminated employee and was partly offset by foreign exchange gains. The $7.9 million decrease in other income (expense), net in 2007 compared to 2006 was partly due to the modification of certain outstanding stock options and a $3.8 million decrease in foreign exchange gains. Income tax provision: The income tax provision for 2008 was $164.8 million with an effective tax rate of negative 12.0%. The effective tax rate was negatively impacted by non deductible IPRD charges incurred in connection with the acquisition of Pharmion. The effective tax rate, excluding the impact of the IPRD and the expense related to the prepayment of our royalty obligation for unapproved products, was 24.8% which reflects the benefit of our low tax Swiss manufacturing operations and our overall global mix of income. The income tax provisions for 2007 and 2006 were $290.5 million and $133.9 million, respectively, with effective tax rates of 56.2% and 66.0%, respectively, and reflected the impact of certain expenses incurred in taxing jurisdictions outside the United States for which we did not receive a tax benefit and nondeductible expenses which included share based compensation expense related to incentive stock options. Net income (loss): Net income (loss) and per common share amounts for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: In thousands $, except per share amounts 2008 2007 2006 Net income (loss) $ (1,533,653 ) $ 226,433 $ 68,981 Per common share amounts: Basic $ (3.46 ) $ 0.59 $ 0.20 Diluted (1) $ (3.46 ) $ 0.54 $ 0.18 Weighted average shares: Basic 442,620 383,225 352,217 Diluted 442,620 431,858 407,181 (1) In computing diluted earnings per share for 2007 and 2006, the numerator has been adjusted to add back the after tax amount of interest expense recognized in the year on our convertible debt. No adjustment to the numerator or denominator was made in 2008 due to the anti dilutive effect of any potential common stock as a result of our net loss. 2008 compared to 2007: Net income decreased by $1.760 billion in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to $1.740 billion in IPRD charges and $102.3 million in acquired intangibles amortization related to the acquisition of Pharmion in March 2008, in addition to a $303.1 million charge for the October 3, 2008 royalty obligation payment to Pfizer that related to the unapproved forms of VIDAZA. These costs were partly offset by an increase in net revenues provided by REVLIMID and VIDAZA. 2007 compared to 2006: Net income increased by $157.5 million in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to an increase in total revenues, primarily from the sales of REVLIMID; increase in interest and investment income resulting from the issuance of an additional 20,000,000 shares of common stock in November 2006; decrease in the overall income tax rate from 66% in 2006 to 56% in 2007; partially offset by increased operating expenses required to support organizational growth, research and development and the launch of REVLIMID in Europe. 47 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: Increase (Decrease) 2008 2007 versus versus In thousands $ 2008 2007 2006 2007 2006 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 182,187 $ 477,500 $ 83,561 $ (295,313 ) $ 393,939 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities $ (522,246 ) $ (990,186 ) $ 6,784 $ 467,940 $ (996,970 ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 281,629 $ 287,695 $ 1,221,246 $ (6,066 ) $ (933,551 ) Operating Activities: Net cash provided by operating activities in 2008 decreased by $295.3 million to $182.2 million as compared to 2007. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily attributable to: the October 3, 2008 prepayment of our royalty obligation under the June 7, 2001 5 azacytidine license in full for $425.0 million, timing of receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business and partly offset by an expansion of our operations. Also see discussion of cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and working capital below. Investing Activities: Net cash used in investing activities in 2008 decreased by $467.9 million to $522.2 million as compared to 2007. The decrease in net cash used in by investing activities was primarily attributable to: net proceeds from net sales of marketable securities available for sale of $312.1 million in 2008 compared to net purchases of $893.3 million in 2007 and offset by the $746.8 million of cash paid to acquire Pharmion. Capital expenditures made in 2008, 2007 and 2006 related primarily to the expansion of our manufacturing capabilities, upgrades to our facilities, as well as spending on computer and laboratory equipment to accommodate our business growth. In 2008, capital expenditures also included the cost of implementing the Oracle Enterprise Business Suite, or EBS. In 2007, capital expenditures also included the cost of building our international headquarters in Boudry, Switzerland and computer equipment. In 2006, capital expenditures also included the purchase of machinery and equipment to support our business growth. For 2009, we are forecasting capital expenditures in the range of approximately $60 million to $70 million compared to approximately $77.4 million in 2008, and we expect to fund this with our operating cash flows. Financing Activities: Net cash provided by financing activities for 2008 decreased by $6.1 million to $281.6 million as compared to 2007. The decrease in net cash provided by financing activities was primarily attributable to: a decrease in the proceeds from the exercise of common stock options and warrants partly offset by an increase in the tax benefit from share based compensation arrangements. 48 Table of Contents Cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and working capital: Working capital and cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were as follows: 2008 In thousands $ 2008 2007 Decrease Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 2,222,091 $ 2,738,918 $ 756,698 Working capital (1) $ 2,299,122 $ 2,835,205 $ 844,236 (1) Includes cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, accounts receivable, net of allowances, inventory and other current assets, less accounts payable, accrued expenses, income taxes payable and other current liabilities. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities Available for Sale: We invest our excess cash primarily in money market funds, U.S. Treasury fixed rate securities, U.S. government sponsored agency fixed rate securities, U.S. government sponsored agency mortgage backed fixed rate securities, and FDIC guaranteed fixed rate corporate debt. All liquid investments with maturities of three months or less from the date of purchase are classified as cash equivalents and all investments with maturities of greater than three months from the date of purchase are classified as marketable securities available for sale. We determine the appropriate classification of our investments in marketable debt and equity securities at the time of purchase. The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities available for sale in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to the net payment of $746.8 million relating to the Pharmion acquisition and the October 3, 2008 prepayment of our royalty obligation under the June 7, 2001 5 azacytidine license in full for $425.0 million, which was partly offset by increased cash generated from operations. Accounts Receivable, Net: Accounts receivable, net increased by $145.0 million to $312.2 million in 2008 compared to 2007 partly due to the inclusion of receivables related to sales of VIDAZA and THALOMID, which were obtained from the Pharmion acquisition and an increase in sales of REVLIMID. Days of sales outstanding, or DSO, in 2008 amounted to 42 days compared to 41 days in 2007. The increase in DSO reflects increased international sales for which collection periods are longer than for U.S. sales. Inventory: Inventory in 2008 totaled $100.2 million and increased by $51.1 million compared to 2007 primarily as a result of the addition of VIDAZA inventory and a higher level of THALOMID inventory in anticipation of launches in European markets. Other Current Assets: Other current assets in 2008 totaled $190.4 million and increased by $81.8 million compared to 2007 primarily due to an increase in sales, use and value added taxes as a result of our continued international expansion, in addition to the current portion of the prepaid VIDAZA royalty obligation. Accounts Payable, Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities: Accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities totaled $474.7 million in 2008 and increased $250.9 million compared to 2007. The increase was primarily due to $27.6 million remaining balance in restructuring reserves related to the acquisition of Pharmion, the inclusion of a net liability of $59.1 million for foreign currency forward hedging contracts, a $35.4 million increase in clinical related spending, a $34.5 million increase in compensation related liabilities and an increase in sales return, rebate and chargeback accruals of $17.2 million. Income Taxes Payable (Current and Non Current): Income taxes payable increased $193.4 million in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily from provisions for income taxes of $290.8 million and tax liabilities acquired in the Pharmion acquisition of $108.8 million partially offset by tax payments of $29.3 million and a tax benefit on stock option exercises of $172.6 million. 49 Table of Contents We expect continued growth in our expenditures, particularly those related to research and product development, clinical trials, regulatory approvals, international expansion, commercialization of products and capital investments. However, we anticipate that existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities available for sale, combined with cash received from expected net product sales and royalty agreements, will provide sufficient capital resources to fund our operations for the foreseeable future. Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2008: Payment Due By Period Less than More than In thousands $ 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years 5 Years Total Operating leases $ 19,334 $ 32,325 $ 14,804 $ 13,767 $ 80,230 Manufacturing facility note payable $ 3,835 $ 7,671 $ 7,484 $ 11,225 $ 30,215 Other contract commitments $ 43,135 $ 5,437 $ $ $ 48,572 Total $ 66,304 $ 45,433 $ 22,288 $ 24,992 $ 159,017 Operating leases: We lease office and research facilities under various operating lease agreements in the United States and various international markets. The non cancelable lease terms for the operating leases expire at various dates between 2009 and 2017 and include renewal options. In general, we are also required to reimburse the lessors for real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, maintenance and other operating costs associated with the leases. For more information on the major facilities that we occupy under lease arrangements refer to Part I, Item 2, Properties of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Manufacturing Facility Note Payable: In December 2006, we purchased an active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, manufacturing facility and certain other assets and liabilities from Siegfried located in Zofingen, Switzerland. At December 31, 2008, the fair value of our note payable to Siegfried approximated the carrying value of the note of $26.0 million. Assuming other factors are held constant, an increase in interest rates generally will result in a decrease in the fair value of the note. The note is denominated in Swiss francs and its fair value will also be affected by changes in the U.S. dollar / Swiss franc exchange rate. The carrying value of the note reflects the U.S. dollar / Swiss franc exchange rate and Swiss interest rates. Other Contract Commitments: Other contract commitments include $31.2 million in contractual obligations related to product supply contracts that were assumed by us with the Pharmion acquisition. We have committed to invest $20.0 million in an investment fund over a ten year period, which is callable at any time. On December 31, 2008, our remaining investment commitment was $14.1 million. For more information refer to Note 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Income Taxes Payable: We have provided a liability for unrecognized tax benefits related to various federal, state and foreign income tax matters of $385.2 million at December 31, 2008 of which $26.6 million is classified as current. The remaining balance of $358.6 million is classified as non current because the timing of the settlement of these amounts is not reasonably estimable as of December 31, 2008. We do not expect a settlement of the unrecognized tax benefits classified as non current within the next 12 months. Collaboration Arrangements: We have entered into certain research and development collaboration arrangements with third parties that include the funding of certain development, manufacturing and commercialization efforts with the potential for future milestone and royalty payments upon the achievement of pre established developmental, regulatory and /or commercial targets. Our obligation to fund these efforts is contingent upon continued involvement in the programs and or the lack of any adverse events which could cause the discontinuance of the programs. Due to the nature of these arrangements, the future potential payments are inherently uncertain, and accordingly no amounts have been recorded on our contractual obligations table. 50 Table of Contents New Accounting Principles In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, or SFAS 157, which establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The FASB partially deferred the effective date of SFAS 157 for non financial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a nonrecurring basis to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The effective date for financial assets and liabilities that are recognized on a recurring basis was January 1, 2008. We have determined that our adoption of SFAS 157 on January 1, 2008 for financial assets and liabilities did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for expanded disclosures required by SFAS 157. We currently do not expect that the adoption of SFAS 157 related to non financial assets will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, or SFAS 159, which provides companies with an option to report selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value. SFAS 159 establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between companies that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities and highlights the effect of a companys choice to use fair value on its earnings. It also requires a company to display the fair value of those assets and liabilities for which it has chosen to use fair value on the face of the balance sheet. SFAS 159 was effective for us beginning January 1, 2008 and did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements as we did not choose to use the fair value option. In June 2007, the FASB ratified Emerging Issues Task Force, or EITF, Issue No. 07 3, Accounting for Non Refundable Advance Payments for Goods or Services to be Used in Future Research and Development Activities, or EITF 07 3, which provides that non refundable advance payments for future research and development activities should be deferred and capitalized until the related goods are delivered or the related services are performed. EITF 07 3 was effective for us on a prospective basis beginning January 1, 2008 and did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 07 1, Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements Related to the Development and Commercialization of Intellectual Property, or EITF 07 1, which provides guidance on how the parties to a collaborative agreement should account for costs incurred and revenue generated on sales to third parties, how sharing payments pursuant to a collaboration agreement should be presented in the income statement and certain related disclosure requirements. EITF 07 1 will be effective for us beginning January 1, 2009 on a retrospective basis. We currently do not expect that the adoption of EITF 07 1 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R, Business Combinations, or SFAS 141R, which replaces FASB Statement No. 141, Business Combinations, and requires an acquirer to recognize the assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the acquisition date, measured at their fair values as of that date, with limited exceptions specified in SFAS 141R. SFAS 141R amended SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, or SFAS 109, and FASB Interpretation No., or FIN, 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, or FIN 48. Previously, SFAS 109 and FIN 48, respectively, generally required post acquisition adjustments to a 51 Table of Contents business combination related deferred tax asset valuation allowance and liabilities related to uncertain tax positions to be recorded as an increase or decrease to goodwill. SFAS 141R does not permit this accounting and generally will require any such changes to be recorded in current period income tax expense. Thus, after SFAS 141R is adopted, all changes to valuation allowances and liabilities related to uncertain tax positions from an acquisition (whether the combination was accounted for under SFAS 141 or SFAS 141R) must be recognized in current period income tax expense. SFAS 141R is effective prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. SFAS 141R is effective for us beginning January 1, 2009 and we will account for future business combinations in accordance with its provisions, in addition to adopting its provisions related to post acquisition adjustments to taxes. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an Amendment of ARB No. 51, or SFAS 160, which changes the accounting for and reporting of noncontrolling interests (formerly known as minority interests) in consolidated financial statements. It is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2008, with early adoption prohibited. Upon implementation, prior periods will be recast for the changes required by SFAS 160. We currently do not expect that the adoption of SFAS 160 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, or SFAS 161, which is intended to improve financial reporting about derivative instruments and hedging activities by requiring enhanced disclosures to enable investors to better understand their effects on an entitys financial position, financial performance and cash flows. It is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008, with early adoption encouraged. SFAS 161 is effective for us during the interim period beginning January 1, 2009 and we will adopt the disclosure provisions in our financial statements as of March 31, 2009. In April 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position, or FSP, No. FAS 142 3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets, or FSP FAS 142 3. FSP FAS 142 3 amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. FSP FAS142 3 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, with early adoption prohibited. We currently do not expect that the adoption of FSP FAS 142 3 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In May 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. APB 14 1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement), or FSP APB 14 1, which requires separate accounting for the debt and equity components of convertible debt issuances that have a cash settlement feature permitting settlement partially or fully in cash upon conversion. A component of such debt issuances representative of the approximate fair value of the conversion feature at inception should be bifurcated and recorded to equity, with the resulting debt discount amortized to interest expense in a manner that reflects the issuers nonconvertible, unsecured debt borrowing rate. The requirements for separate accounting must be applied retrospectively to previously issued convertible debt issuances as well as prospectively to newly issued convertible debt issuances, negatively affecting both net income and earnings per share, in financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Since our past convertible debt issuance did not include a cash settlement feature, the adoption of FSP APB 14 1 will not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements. In June 2008, the FASB issued FSP EITF No. 03 6 1, Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities, or FSP EITF 03 6 1. The FSP addresses whether instruments granted in share based payment transactions are participating securities prior to vesting and therefore need to be included in the earnings allocation in calculating earnings per share under the two class method described in SFAS No. 128, Earnings per Share. The FSP requires companies to treat unvested share based payment awards that have non forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents as a separate class of securities in calculating earnings per share. The FSP is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, with early adoption prohibited. Since our past share based payment awards did not include non forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, the adoption of FSP EITF 03 6 1 will not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements. 52 Table of Contents In October 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 157 3, Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active, or FSP FAS 157 3. The FSP clarifies the application of FASB Statement No. 157 in a market that is not active and provides an example to illustrate key considerations in determining the fair value of a financial asset when the market for that financial asset is not active. The FSP was effective upon issuance, including prior periods for which financial statements have not been issued and did not have a material impact on our financial statements. In November 2008, the FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 08 6, Equity Method Investment Accounting Considerations, or EITF 08 6, which clarifies the accounting for certain transactions and impairment considerations involving equity method investments. EITF 08 6 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, with early adoption prohibited. We currently do not expect that the adoption of EITF 08 6 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In November 2008, the FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 08 7, Accounting for Defensive Intangible Assets, or EITF 08 7, which clarifies the accounting for certain separately identifiable intangible assets which an acquirer does not intend to actively use but intends to hold to prevent its competitors from obtaining access to them. EITF 08 7 requires an acquirer in a business combination to account for a defensive intangible asset as a separate unit of accounting which should be amortized to expense over the period the asset diminishes in value. EITF 08 7 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, with early adoption prohibited. It is effective prospectively for intangible assets acquired on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. EITF 08 7 is effective for us beginning January 1, 2009 and we will account for defensive intangible assets acquired in future business combinations in accordance with its provisions. Critical Accounting Estimates and Significant Accounting Policies A critical accounting policy is one that is both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operation and requires managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. While our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report, we believe the following accounting estimates and policies to be critical: Revenue Recognition on Collaboration Agreements: We have formed collaborative research and development agreements and alliances with several pharmaceutical companies. These agreements are in the form of research and development and license agreements. The agreements call for non refundable upfront payments, milestone payments on achieving significant milestone events and in some cases ongoing research funding. The agreements also contemplate royalty payments on sales if and when the compounds receive regulatory marketing approval. Our revenue recognition policies for all non refundable upfront license fees and milestone arrangements are in accordance with the guidance provided in the Securities and Exchange Commissions Staff Accounting Bulletin, or SAB, No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements, as amended by SAB No. 104, Revenue Recognition, or SAB 104. In addition, we follow the provisions of EITF Issue No. 00 21, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables, or EITF 00 21, for multiple element revenue arrangements entered into or materially amended after June 30, 2003. EITF 00 21 provides guidance on how to determine when an arrangement that involves multiple revenue generating activities or deliverables should be divided into separate units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes and, if this division is required, how the arrangement consideration should be allocated among the separate units of accounting. If the deliverables in a revenue arrangement constitute separate units of accounting according to the EITFs separation criteria, the revenue recognition policy must be determined for each identified unit. If the arrangement is a single unit of accounting, the revenue recognition policy must be determined for the entire arrangement. 53 Table of Contents Under arrangements where the license fees and research and development activities can be accounted for as a separate unit of accounting, non refundable upfront license fees are deferred and recognized as revenue on a straight line basis over the expected term of our continued involvement in the research and development process. Revenues from the achievement of research and development milestones, if deemed substantive, are recognized as revenue when the milestones are achieved, and the milestone payments are due and collectible. Milestones are considered substantive if all of the following conditions are met: (1) the milestone is non refundable; (2) achievement of the milestone was not reasonably assured at the inception of the arrangement; (3) substantive effort is involved to achieve the milestone; and (4) the amount of the milestone appears reasonable in relation to the effort expended, the other milestones in the arrangement and the related risk associated with achievement of the milestone. If any of these conditions are not met, we would recognize a proportionate amount of the milestone payment upon receipt as revenue that correlates to work already performed and the remaining portion of the milestone payment will be deferred and recognized as revenue as we complete our performance obligations. Gross to Net Sales Accruals for Sales Returns, Government Rebates and Chargebacks and Distributor Service Fees: Our gross to net sales accruals for Sales Returns, Government Rebates and Chargebacks and Distributor Service Fees are based on our sales and or estimates of third party inventories. Our distribution programs in certain markets and our accrual methodologies are described in more detail below. THALOMID is distributed under our S.T.E.P.S. distribution program. Among other things, S.T.E.P.S., which is a proprietary comprehensive education and risk management distribution program, requires prescribers, patients and dispensing pharmacies to participate in a registry and prohibits the filling of a THALOMID order unless the physician, patient and pharmacy have all obtained an appropriate authorization number. Automatic refills are not permitted under the program. Each prescription may not exceed a 28 day supply and a new prescription is required with each order. Although we invoice through traditional pharmaceutical wholesalers, all THALOMID orders are drop shipped directly to the prescribing pharmacy overnight. Wholesaler stocking of this product is prohibited. In addition, we do not offer commercial discounts on our products to pharmacies or hospitals and, therefore, have no commercial distributor chargebacks. REVLIMID is distributed under the RevAssist program, which is a proprietary risk management distribution program tailored specifically to help ensure the safe use of REVLIMID, and is sold primarily through contracted pharmacies lending itself to tighter controls of inventory quantities within the supply channel. The RevAssist program includes most of the same attributes of the S.T.E.P.S. program mentioned above. VIDAZA is distributed through the more traditional pharmaceutical industry supply chain. VIDAZA is not subjected to S.T.E.P.S. or RevAssist distribution restrictions. It may be stocked by multiple wholesalers and prescribed by physicians without our preauthorization. 54 Table of Contents ALKERAN is distributed in a similar fashion as VIDAZA. Sales Returns: We base our sales returns allowance on estimated on hand retail/hospital inventories, measured end customer demand as reported by third party sources, actual returns history and other factors, such as the trend experience for lots where product is still being returned or inventory centralization and rationalization initiatives conducted by major pharmacy chains, as applicable. If the historical data we use to calculate these estimates does not properly reflect future returns, then a change in the allowance would be made in the period in which such a determination is made and revenues in that period could be materially affected. Under this methodology, we track actual returns by individual production lots. We analyze historic returns experience on closed lots and historical return trend rates on open lots. Any changes from the historical trend rates are considered in determining the current sales return allowance. THALOMID is drop shipped directly to the prescribing pharmacy and, as a result, wholesalers do not stock the product, although the prescribing pharmacy/hospital may stock THALOMID. REVLIMID is distributed primarily through contracted specialty pharmacies lending itself to tighter controls of inventory quantities within the supply channel and, thus, resulting in lower returns activity to date. VIDAZA and ALKERAN are sold in the United States to pharmaceutical wholesalers, who in turn distribute product to physicians, retail pharmacies, hospitals and other institutional customers. External factors such as price changes from competitors and introductions of new and generic competing products could have an impact on our sales returns. Our sales returns have not been impacted thus far by such external factors; however, we continue to monitor such factors. Government Rebates: Government rebate accruals are based on estimated payments due to governmental agencies for purchases made by third parties under various governmental programs. U.S. Medicaid rebate accruals are based on historical payment data and estimates of future Medicaid beneficiary utilization applied to the Medicaid unit rebate amount formula established by the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services. Certain foreign markets have government sponsored programs that require rebates to be paid and accordingly the rebate accruals are determined primarily on estimated eligible sales. Chargebacks and Distributor Service Fees: Chargebacks are based on the differentials between product acquisition prices paid by wholesalers and lower government contract pricing paid by eligible customers covered under federally qualified programs. Distributor service fees accruals are based on contractual fees to be paid to the wholesale distributor for services provided. On January 28, 2008, the Fiscal Year 2008 National Defense Authorization Act was enacted, which expands TRICARE to include prescription drugs dispensed by TRICARE retail network pharmacies. TRICARE rebate accruals reflect this program expansion and are based on estimated Department of Defense eligible sales multiplied by the TRICARE rebate formula. Other Gross to Net Sales Accruals: We record sales discounts accruals based on payment terms extended to customers. Income Taxes: We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for years in which the temporary differences are expected to reverse. We provide a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets will not be realized. We adopted the provisions of FIN 48 and FSP FIN 48 1, Definition of Settlement in FASB Interpretation No. 48, or FSP FIN 48 1, effective January 1, 2007. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprises financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109 and prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. We had no cumulative effect adjustment related to the adoption. We account for interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions as part of our provision for income taxes. These unrecognized tax benefits relate primarily to issues common among multinational corporations in our industry. We apply a variety of methodologies in making these estimates which include studies performed by independent economists, advice from industry and subject experts, evaluation of public actions taken by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities, as well as our own industry experience. We provide estimates for unrecognized tax benefits. If our estimates are not representative of actual outcomes, our results of operations could be materially impacted. 55 Table of Contents We periodically evaluate the likelihood of the realization of deferred tax assets, and reduce the carrying amount of these deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience by taxing jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income, carryforward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, various income tax strategies and other relevant factors. Significant judgment is required in making this assessment and, to the extent future expectations change, we would have to assess the recoverability of our deferred tax assets at that time. At December 31, 2008, it was more likely than not that we would realize our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances. Share Based Compensation: We adopted the provisions of SFAS, No. 123R, Share Based Payment, or SFAS 123R, effective January 1, 2006, which requires that all share based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements at their fair values. We adopted SFAS 123R using the modified prospective application method under which the provisions of SFAS 123R apply to new awards and to awards modified, repurchased or cancelled after the adoption date. We use the Black Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of options on the date of grant which requires certain estimates to be made by management including the expected forfeiture rate and expected term of the options. Management also makes decisions regarding the method of calculating the expected volatilities and the risk free interest rate used in the model. Fluctuations in the market that affect these estimates could have an impact on the resulting compensation cost. Additionally, compensation cost for the portion of awards for which the requisite service has not been rendered that are outstanding as of the adoption date is recognized over the remaining service period after the adoption date (for additional information refer to Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K). Other Than Temporary Impairments of Available For Sale Marketable Securities: A decline in the market value of any available for sale marketable security below its cost that is deemed to be other than temporary results in a reduction in carrying amount to fair value. The impairment is charged to operations and a new cost basis for the security established. The determination of whether an available for sale marketable security is other than temporarily impaired requires significant judgment and requires consideration of available quantitative and qualitative evidence in evaluating the potential impairment. Factors evaluated to determine whether the investment is other than temporarily impaired include: significant deterioration in the issuers earnings performance, credit rating, asset quality, business prospects of the issuer, adverse changes in the general market conditions in which the issuer operates, length of time that the fair value has been below our cost, our expected future cash flows from the security and our intent and ability to retain the investment for a sufficient period of time to allow for recovery in the market value of the investment. Assumptions associated with these factors are subject to future market and economic conditions, which could differ from our assessment. Derivatives and Hedging Activities: SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, or SFAS 133, as amended, requires that all derivative instruments be recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recorded each period in current earnings or other comprehensive income (loss), depending on whether a derivative instrument is designated as part of a hedging transaction and, if it is, the type of hedging transaction. For a derivative to qualify as a hedge at inception and throughout the hedged period, we formally document the nature and relationships between the hedging instruments and hedged item. We assess, both at inception and on an on going basis, whether the derivative instruments that are used in cash flow hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting the changes in cash flows of hedged items. We assess hedge ineffectiveness on a quarterly basis and record the gain or loss related to the ineffective portion of derivative instruments, if any, to current earnings. If we determine that a forecasted transaction is no longer probable of occurring, we discontinue hedge accounting and any related unrealized gain or loss on the derivative instrument is recognized in current earnings. We use derivative instruments, including those not designated as part of a hedging transaction, to manage our exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates. The use of these derivative instruments modifies the exposure of these risks with the intent to reduce our risk or cost. We do not use derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes and are not a party to leveraged derivatives. 56 Table of Contents Investment in Affiliated Companies: Our investment in affiliated companies is comprised of investments in common stock of affiliated companies and investment funds which primarily invest in companies conducting business in life sciences such as biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, medical technology, devices, diagnostics and health and wellness. If the carrying value of an asset were to exceed its fair value, we would review it to determine if an other than temporary decline in value of the investment has been sustained. If the investment is determined to have sustained an other than temporary decline in value, the investment would be written down to its fair value. Such an evaluation is judgmental and dependent on the specific facts and circumstances. Factors that we consider in determining whether an other than temporary decline in value has occurred include: the market value of the security in relation to its cost basis, the period of time that the market value is below cost, the financial condition of the investee and our intent and ability to retain the investment for a sufficient period of time to allow for recovery in the market value of the investment. We evaluate information that we are aware of in addition to quoted market prices, if any, in determining if an other than temporary decline in value exists. Accounting for Long Term Incentive Plans: We have established a Long Term Incentive Plan, or LTIP, designed to provide key officers and executives with performance based incentive opportunities contingent upon achievement of pre established corporate performance objectives covering a three year period. We currently have two three year performance cycles running concurrently ending December 31, 2009 and 2010. We also anticipate the approval of a new 3 year performance cycle ending December 31, 2011 to be adopted by the Board of Directors at the end of February 2009. Performance measures for each LTIP are based on the following components in the last year of the three year cycle: 25% on earnings per share, 25% on net income and 50% on total revenue, as defined. Payouts may be in the range of 0% to 200% of the participants salary for the plans. Awards are payable in cash or, at our discretion, in our common stock based upon our stock price at the payout date. We accrue the long term incentive liability over each three year cycle. Prior to the end of a three year cycle, the accrual is based on an estimate of our level of achievement during the cycle. Upon a change in control, participants will be entitled to an immediate payment equal to their target award, or, if higher, an award based on actual performance through the date of the change in control. Accruals recorded for the LTIP entail making certain assumptions concerning future earnings per share, net income and revenues, as defined; the actual results of which could be materially different than the assumptions used. Accruals for the LTIP are reviewed on a regular basis and revised accordingly so that the liability recorded reflects updated estimates of future payouts. In estimating the accruals, management considers actual results to date for the performance period, expected results for the remainder of the performance period, operating trends, product development, pricing and competition. Valuation of acquired intangible assets and acquired in process research and development: We have acquired intangible assets primarily through business combinations. When identifiable intangible assets, including in process research and development, are acquired we determine the fair values of these assets as of the acquisition date. Discounted cash flow models are typically used in these valuations, and the models require the use of significant estimates and assumptions including but not limited to: projecting regulatory approvals, estimating future cash flows from product sales resulting from completed products and in process projects and developing appropriate discount rates and probability rates. 57 Table of Contents Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets: We account for goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with SFAS 141, Business Combinations, or SFAS 141, (replaced by SFAS 141R for business combinations consummated on or after January 1, 2009) and SFAS 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, or SFAS 142. SFAS 141 requires that the purchase method of accounting be used for all business combinations. It specifies the criteria which intangible assets acquired in a business combination must meet in order to be recognized and reported apart from goodwill. SFAS 142 requires that goodwill and intangible assets determined to have indefinite lives be tested for impairment at least annually and whenever events or circumstances occur that indicate impairment might have occurred. Our identifiable intangible assets are subject to amortization. SFAS 142 requires that intangible assets with finite useful lives be amortized over their respective estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment in accordance with SFAS 144. SFAS 144 requires, among other things, that long lived assets be measured at the lower of carrying amount or fair value, less cost to sell. We review our intangibles with determinable lives and other long lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Our judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based on historical and projected future operating results, changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or our overall business strategy, and market and economic trends. In the future, events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that certain other intangibles with determinable lives and other long lived assets are impaired which may result in an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The following discussion provides forward looking quantitative and qualitative information about our potential exposure to market risk. Market risk represents the potential loss arising from adverse changes in the value of financial instruments. The risk of loss is assessed based on the likelihood of adverse changes in fair values, cash flows or future earnings. We have established guidelines relative to the diversification and maturities of investments to maintain safety and liquidity. These guidelines are reviewed periodically and may be modified depending on market conditions. Although investments may be subject to credit risk, our investment policy specifies credit quality standards for our investments and limits the amount of credit exposure from any single issue, issuer or type of investment. At December 31, 2008, our market risk sensitive instruments consisted of marketable securities available for sale, our note payable and certain foreign currency forward contracts. Marketable Securities Available for Sale: At December 31, 2008, our marketable securities available for sale consisted of U.S. Treasury fixed rate securities, U.S. government sponsored agency fixed rate securities, U.S. government sponsored agency mortgage backed fixed rate securities, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, guaranteed fixed rate corporate debt, private cash fund shares and a marketable equity security. U.S. government sponsored agency securities include general unsecured obligations of the issuing agency, including issues from the Federal Home Loan Bank, or FHLB, Fannie Mae, and Freddie Mac. U.S. government sponsored agency mortgage backed securities include fixed rate asset backed securities issued by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Government National Mortgage Association, or GNMA. FDIC guaranteed corporate debt includes obligations of bank holding companies that meet certain criteria set forth under the Temporary Liquidity Guaranty Program, or TLGP, and is unconditionally guaranteed by the FDIC. 58 Table of Contents Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, FHLB and GNMA are regulated by the recently established Federal Housing Finance Agency, or FHFA. On September 7, 2008, the U.S. government, through the FHFA and the U.S. Treasury, announced that it was placing both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship, with the FHFA assuming their day to day operations. On that same day, the U.S. Treasury established a new secured lending credit facility available to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which is intended to serve as an ultimate liquidity backstop. This action, in essence, implemented the temporary liquidity backstop authority granted to the U.S. Treasury by Congress in July 2008, and will be available until December 2009. These measures were taken with the goal of preserving the value of the debt and mortgage backed securities issued by these U.S. government sponsored agencies as well as to ensure that these agencies have future access to capital. The U.S. Treasury and the Federal Reserve Bank, or Fed, continue to monitor the capital requirements and access to liquidity for the U.S. government sponsored agencies. Working with the Congress and the Office of the President, the U.S. Treasury and the Fed have pledged to continue to provide capital and liquidity to the U.S. government sponsored agencies. We have not recorded any impairments against our holdings in these securities. Marketable securities available for sale are carried at fair value, held for an unspecified period of time and intended for use in meeting our ongoing liquidity needs. Unrealized gains and losses on available for sale securities, which are deemed to be temporary, are reported as a separate component of stockholders equity, net of tax. The cost of debt securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. The amortization, along with realized gains and losses and other than temporary impairment charges, is included in interest and investment income, net. As of December 31, 2008, the principal amounts, fair values and related weighted average interest rates of our investments in debt securities classified as marketable securities available for sale were as follows: Duration Less than More Than In thousands $ 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years 5 Years Total Principal amount $ 402,472 $ 595,359 $ 73,611 $ 21,328 $ 1,092,770 Fair value $ 408,274 $ 617,802 $ 80,138 $ 23,084 $ 1,129,298 Average interest rate 1.6 % 1.8 % 1.6 % 3.9 % 1.8 % Note Payable: In December 2006, we purchased an active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, manufacturing facility and certain other assets and liabilities from Siegfried. At December 31, 2008, the fair value of our note payable to Siegfried approximated the carrying value of the note of $26.0 million (See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report). Assuming other factors are held constant, an increase in interest rates generally will result in a decrease in the fair value of the note. The note is denominated in Swiss francs and its fair value will also be affected by changes in the U.S. dollar / Swiss franc exchange rate. The carrying value of the note reflects the U.S. dollar / Swiss franc exchange rate and Swiss interest rates. Foreign Currency Forward Contracts: We use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge specific forecasted transactions denominated in foreign currencies and to reduce exposures to foreign currency fluctuations of certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. 59 Table of Contents We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to protect against changes in foreign currency cash flows resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily associated with U.S. dollar denominated expenses incurred by subsidiaries in Europe. We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to protect against changes in anticipated foreign currency cash flows resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily associated with product sales in Europe. These foreign currency forward contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and accordingly, to the extent effective, any unrealized gains or losses on them are reported in other comprehensive income (loss) and reclassified to earnings in the same periods during which the underlying hedged transactions affect earnings. Any ineffectiveness on these foreign currency forward contracts is reported in other income (expense), net. The foreign currency forward hedging contracts outstanding at December 31, 2008 had an aggregate notional amount of approximately $704.2 million and had settlement dates within 24 months. The fair value of these contracts was a net liability of $48.4 million at December 31, 2008 and is reflected in other current assets of $1.6 million and other current liabilities of $50.0 million. We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to reduce exposures to foreign currency fluctuations of certain recognized assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. At December 31, 2008, we had foreign currency forward contracts outstanding denominated in various currencies, including Euros, Swiss Francs, British Pounds, Japanese Yen and U.S. Dollars, with an aggregate notional amount of approximately $56.6 million and expiring within 12 months. The foreign currency forward contracts are economic hedges of certain assets and liabilities that are remeasured through earnings each period along with the underlying hedged item. At December 31, 2008, the fair value of these foreign currency forward contracts was a net liability of $9.1 million and is included in other current liabilities. Although not predictive in nature, we believe a hypothetical 10% threshold reflects a reasonably possible near term change in foreign currency rates. Assuming that the December 31, 2008 exchange rates were to change by a hypothetical 10%, the fair value of the foreign currency forward contracts would change by approximately $75.8 million. However, since the contracts either hedge specific forecasted intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies or hedge assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the entities functional currencies, any change in the fair value of the contract would be either reported in other comprehensive income (loss) and reclassified to earnings in the same periods during which the underlying hedged transactions affect earnings or remeasured through earnings each period along with the underlying hedged item. 60 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Executive Summary Celgene Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively we or our) is a global biopharmaceutical company primarily engaged in the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative therapies designed to treat cancer and immune inflammatory related diseases. In March 2008, we acquired Pharmion Corporation to enhance our portfolio of therapies for patients with life threatening illnesses worldwide with the addition of Pharmions marketed products, and several products in development for the treatment of hematological and solid tumor cancers. By combining this new product portfolio with our existing operational and financial capabilities, we enlarged our global market share through increased product offerings and expanded clinical, regulatory and commercial capabilities. Our primary commercial stage products include REVLIMID, THALOMID and VIDAZA. REVLIMID is an oral immunomodulatory drug marketed for multiple myeloma patients who have received at least one prior therapy and for treatment of patients with transfusion dependent anemia due to low or intermediate 1 risk MDS associated with a deletion 5q cytogenetic abnormality with or without additional cytogenetic abnormalities. THALOMID is marketed for patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma and for the acute treatment of the cutaneous manifestations of moderate to severe ENL, an inflammatory complication of leprosy. VIDAZA is a pyrimidine nucleoside analog that has been shown to reverse the effects of DNA hypermethylation and promote subsequent gene re expression. VIDAZA was licensed from Pharmacia Upjohn, now part of Pfizer, and is marketed for the treatment of all subtypes of MDS. VIDAZA was granted orphan drug designation by the FDA for the treatment of MDS in the United States through May 2011. In December 2008, VIDAZA was granted full marketing authorization by the EC for the treatment of adult patients who are not eligible for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation with Intermediate 2 and high risk MDS according to the IPSS or CMML with 10 29 percent marrow blasts without myeloproliferative disorder, or AML with 20 30 percent blasts and multi lineage dysplasia, according to WHO classification. We continue to invest substantially in research and development, and the drug candidates in our pipeline are at various stages of preclinical and clinical development. These candidates include our IMiDs compounds, which are a class of compounds proprietary to us and having certain immunomodulatory and other biologically important properties in addition to our leading oral anti inflammatory agents and cell products. We believe that our primary commercial stage products and depth of our product pipeline provide the catalysts for future growth. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we reported revenue of $2.255 billion, a net loss of $1.534 billion and a diluted loss per share of $3.46. Revenue increased by $849.0 million in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to the expanded use of REVLIMID and the acquisition of former Pharmion products, including VIDAZA and THALOMID outside of the United States. The net loss and loss per share amounts were primarily due to IPRD charges and amortization of acquired intangible assets related to the Pharmion acquisition, in addition to the expensing of the October 3, 2008 royalty obligation payment to Pfizer that related to the unapproved forms of VIDAZA. 37 Table of Contents Factors Affecting Future Results Future operating results will depend on many factors, including demand for our existing products, regulatory approvals of our products and product candidates, the timing and market acceptance of new products launched by us or competing companies, the timing of research and development milestones, challenges to our intellectual property and our ability to control costs. See also Risk Factors contained in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Some of the more significant factors that we are focused on include: The ability of our products to successfully penetrate and expand in relevant markets: REVLIMID was approved by the FDA, the EC, the Swissmedic, the TGA, and in October 2008 by Health Canada for treatment in combination with dexamethasone for multiple myeloma patients who have received at least one prior therapy. In addition, REVLIMID was approved by the FDA and the Canadian Therapeutic Products Directorate for treatment of patients with transfusion dependent anemia due to low or intermediate 1 risk MDS, associated with a deletion 5q cytogenetic abnormality with or without additional cytogenetic abnormalities. We do not have long term data on the use of the product and cannot predict whether REVLIMID will continue to gain the acceptance of regulators, physicians, patients and other key opinion leaders as a relatively safe and effective drug that has certain advantages as compared to existing or future therapies. We are also seeking to introduce REVLIMID in additional international markets as well as obtaining approvals for additional indications both in the United States and internationally. A delay in gaining the requisite regulatory approvals could negatively impact our growth plans. THALOMID was approved by the FDA for treatment in combination with dexamethasone for patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma and is also approved for the treatment and suppression of cutaneous manifestations of ENL, an inflammatory complication of leprosy. In April 2008, the TGA approved a supplemental filing granting THALOMID marketing approval for use in combination with melphalan and prednisone for patients with untreated multiple myeloma or ineligible for high dose chemotherapy and also granted THALOMID marketing approval in combination with dexamethasone for induction therapy prior to high dose chemotherapy with autologous stem cell rescue, for the treatment of patients with untreated multiple myeloma. In addition, in April 2008, THALOMID was granted full marketing authorization by the EC for use in combination with melphalan and prednisone as a treatment for patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. If unexpected adverse experiences are reported in connection with the use of THALOMID by patients, physician and patient comfort with the product could be undermined, the commercial success of THALOMID could be affected and the acceptance of our other products, including REVLIMID, may be adversely impacted. VIDAZA has been shown to reverse the effects of DNA hypermethylation and promote subsequent gene re expression. VIDAZA was licensed from Pharmacia Upjohn, now part of Pfizer, and was approved by the FDA for the treatment of all subtypes of MDS. Additionally, VIDAZA was granted orphan drug designation by the FDA for the treatment of AML. In December 2008, VIDAZA was granted full marketing authorization by the EC for the treatment of adult patients who are not eligible for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation with Intermediate 2 and high risk MDS according to the IPSS or CMML with 10 29 percent marrow blasts without myeloproliferative disorder, or AML with 20 30 percent blasts and multi lineage dysplasia, according to WHO classification. Our ability to advance regulatory and clinical programs: Many of our drug candidates are in the early or mid stages of research and development and will require the commitment of substantial financial resources, extensive research, development, preclinical testing, clinical trials, manufacturing scale up and regulatory approval prior to being ready for sale. Moreover, our commercially available products may require additional studies with respect to approved indications as well as new indications pending approval. If it becomes too expensive to sustain our present commitment of resources on a long term basis, we will be unable to continue certain necessary research and development activities. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our clinical testing will render satisfactory results, or that we will receive required regulatory approvals for our new products or new indications. A major objective of our ongoing clinical programs is to broaden our knowledge about the full potential of REVLIMID and our other proprietary IMiDs compounds and to continue to evaluate them in a broad range of hematological malignancies and other cancers. Our near term focus is on evaluating REVLIMID as a treatment of CLL and NHL. 38 Table of Contents Competitive Risks: While competition could limit our products sales, we do not believe that competing products would eliminate their use entirely. Moreover, while generic competitors have and could seek to challenge our THALOMID franchise, we own intellectual property which includes, for example, U.S. patents covering our S.T.E.P.S. distribution program for the safe distribution and appropriate use of thalidomide, which all physicians, patients and pharmacies prescribing, receiving or dispensing thalidomide in the United States must follow. We also have exclusive rights to several issued patents covering THALOMID formulations, as well as the use of THALOMID in oncology and other therapeutic areas. Results of Operations Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 Total Revenue: Total revenue and related percentages for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: % Change 2008 2007 versus versus In thousands $ 2008 2007 2006 2007 2006 Net product sales: REVLIMID $ 1,324,671 $ 773,877 $ 320,558 71.2 % 141.4 % THALOMID 504,713 447,089 432,950 12.9 % 3.3 % VIDAZA 206,692 N/A N/A ALKERAN 81,734 73,551 50,337 11.1 % 46.1 % Other 19,868 5,924 7,760 235.4 % 23.7 % Total net product sales $ 2,137,678 $ 1,300,441 $ 811,605 64.4 % 60.2 % Collaborative agreements and other revenue 14,945 20,109 18,189 25.7 % 10.6 % Royalty revenue 102,158 85,270 69,079 19.8 % 23.4 % Total revenue $ 2,254,781 $ 1,405,820 $ 898,873 60.4 % 56.4 % 2008 compared to 2007: Total revenue increased by $849.0 million, or 60.4%, in 2008 compared to 2007. This increase is due to increased revenue in the United States of $379.8 million, or 31.6%, compared to 2007 and increased revenue in international markets of $469.2 million, or 230.2%. 2007 compared to 2006: Total revenue increased by $506.9 million, or 56.4%, in 2007 compared to 2006. This increase is due to increased revenue in the United States of $356.6 million, or 42.2%, compared to 2006 and increased revenue in international markets of $150.3 million, or 281.2%. Net Product Sales: 2008 compared to 2007: REVLIMID net sales increased by $550.8 million, or 71.2%, in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to increased sales in the United States and continued expansion in international markets. Increased market penetration and the increase in duration of patients using REVLIMID in multiple myeloma accounted for most of the U.S. growth. International sales growth primarily reflects the impact of the June 2007 ECs approval for the use of REVLIMID for treatment in combination with dexamethasone of patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior therapy and continued expansion in international markets and subsequent pricing, reimbursement and marketing approvals in each country. REVLIMID continued to receive positive clinical study results which were reported at major medical conferences and in peer reviewed publications. 39 Table of Contents THALOMID net sales increased by $57.6 million, or 12.9%, in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to the 2008 inclusion of international sales, resulting from the acquisition of Pharmion. In addition, U.S. price increases were offset by lower sales volumes. VIDAZA represents sales recorded subsequent to the March 7, 2008 Pharmion acquisition in both the United States and international markets. ALKERAN net sales increased by $8.2 million, or 11.1%, in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to an increase in unit sales of the injectable form. The agreement with GSK to distribute, promote and sell ALKERAN expires on March 31, 2009 and will not be renewed. Net product sales increased by $837.2 million, or 64.4% in 2008 compared to 2007. The change was comprised of net volume increases of $742.8 million, or 57.1%, as well as price increases of $93.0 million, or 7.2%, and impact of foreign exchange of $1.4 million, or 0.1%. 2007 compared to 2006: REVLIMID net sales increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to the products expanded use in the United States resulting from the FDAs June 2006 approval for treatment in combination with dexamethasone of patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior therapy in multiple myeloma and growth in Europe resulting from the June 2007 ECs approval for the use of REVLIMID in this same indication. Also contributing to the increase in sales were price increases and increased sales from our European Named Patient Program, or NPP, which offers European patients in need of treatment access to REVLIMID on a compassionate use basis. Net sales of THALOMID were higher in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to price increases, partly offset by lower sales volumes as written prescriptions declined, reflecting the expanded use of REVLIMID. ALKERAN net sales were higher in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to increased prices and a decrease in product returns. Gross to Net Sales Accruals: We record gross to net sales accruals for sales returns and allowances; sales discounts; government rebates; and chargebacks and distributor service fees. We base our sales returns allowance on estimated on hand retail/hospital inventories, measured end customer demand as reported by third party sources, actual returns history and other factors, such as the trend experience for lots where product is still being returned or inventory centralization and rationalization initiatives conducted by major pharmacy chains, as applicable. If the historical data we use to calculate these estimates does not properly reflect future returns, then a change in the allowance would be made in the period in which such a determination is made and revenues in that period could be materially affected. Under this methodology, we track actual returns by individual production lots. We analyze historic returns experience on closed lots and historical return trend rates on open lots. Any changes from the historical trend rates are considered in determining the current sales return allowance. THALOMID is drop shipped directly to the prescribing pharmacy and, as a result, wholesalers do not stock the product. REVLIMID is distributed primarily through contracted specialty pharmacies lending itself to tighter controls of inventory quantities within the supply channel and, thus, resulting in lower returns activity to date. VIDAZA and ALKERAN are sold in the United States to pharmaceutical wholesalers, who in turn distribute product to physicians, retail pharmacies, hospitals and other institutional customers. Sales discount accruals are based on payment terms extended to customers. 40 Table of Contents Government rebate accruals are based on estimated payments due to governmental agencies for purchases made by third parties under various governmental programs. U.S. Medicaid rebate accruals are based on historical payment data and estimates of future Medicaid beneficiary utilization applied to the Medicaid unit rebate amount formula established by the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services. Certain foreign markets have government sponsored programs that require rebates to be paid and accordingly the rebate accruals are determined primarily on estimated eligible sales. Chargebacks accruals are based on the differentials between product acquisition prices paid by wholesalers and lower government contract pricing paid by eligible customers covered under federally qualified programs. Distributor services accruals are based on contractual fees to be paid to the wholesale distributor for services provided. On January 28, 2008, the Fiscal Year 2008 National Defense Authorization Act was enacted, which expands TRICARE to include prescription drugs dispensed by TRICARE retail network pharmacies. TRICARE rebate accruals reflect this program expansion and are based on estimated Department of Defense eligible sales multiplied by the TRICARE rebate formula. See Critical Accounting Policies for further discussion of gross to net sales accruals. Gross to net sales accruals and the balance in the related allowance accounts for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: Returns Chargebacks and Government and Dist. In thousands $ Allowances Discounts Rebates Service Fees Total Balance at December 31, 2005 $ 5,017 $ 1,447 $ 20,960 $ 6,778 $ 34,202 Allowances for sales during 2006 23,944 18,847 22,353 57,750 122,894 Allowances for sales during prior periods 30,607 34 30,641 Credits/deductions issued for prior year sales (35,624 ) (1,481 ) (20,357 ) (6,315 ) (63,777 ) Credits/deductions issued for sales during 2006 (14,464 ) (16,551 ) (15,488 ) (47,580 ) (94,083 ) Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 9,480 $ 2,296 $ 7,468 $ 10,633 $ 29,877 Allowances for sales during 2007 22,303 27,999 28,420 72,982 151,704 Allowances for sales during prior periods 17,498 (2,776 ) 14,722 Credits/deductions issued for prior year sales (26,979 ) (2,206 ) (7,071 ) (6,725 ) (42,981 ) Credits/deductions issued for sales during 2007 (5,568 ) (25,194 ) (19,615 ) (65,275 ) (115,652 ) Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 16,734 $ 2,895 $ 9,202 $ 8,839 $ 37,670 Pharmion balance at March 7, 2008 926 283 1,266 2,037 4,512 Allowances for sales during 2008 20,624 36,024 35,456 100,258 192,362 Credits/deductions issued for prior year sales (17,066 ) (2,428 ) (7,951 ) (4,127 ) (31,572 ) Credits/deductions issued for sales during 2008 (3,419 ) (33,115 ) (27,163 ) (83,621 ) (147,318 ) Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 17,799 $ 3,659 $ 10,810 $ 23,386 $ 55,654 2008 compared to 2007: Returns and allowances decreased by $19.2 million in 2008 compared 2007 primarily due to reduced THALOMID inventory in the sales channel resulting from the 2007 THALOMID inventory centralization and rationalization at several major pharmacy chains, which also resulted in additional returns during 2007. In addition, 2007 includes an increase in THALOMID returns resulting from the anticipated increase in use of REVLIMID in multiple myeloma. We anticipate another inventory centralization and rationalization initiative to be conducted by a major pharmacy chain in early 2009 and believe that our ending returns and allowances reserve reflects the anticipated effects thereof. Discounts increased by $8.0 million in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to increased sales of REVLIMID as well as the inclusion of former Pharmion products, which resulted in additional discounts taken. 41 Table of Contents Government rebates increased by $7.0 million in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to the increased international government rebates resulting from our global expansion, as well as the inclusion of former Pharmion products. Chargebacks and distributor service fees increased by $30.1 million in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to the new TRICARE rebate program, as well as the inclusion of former Pharmion products. 2007 compared to 2006: Sales return allowances decreased in 2007 compared to 2006 due primarily to lower returns of ALKERAN IV resulting from improved expiration dating on 2006 and 2007 product sales. In addition, THALOMID returns were lower than the prior year primarily due to a 2006 THALOMID returns initiative undertaken by one large retail pharmacy chain. In response to this initiative, we introduced single sleeves of THALOMID for sale in June of 2006. Previously, THALOMID was sold only in multi sleeve package configurations. The additional trade package configuration enabled all retailers to more efficiently manage their THALOMID inventories resulting in lower 2007 returns. This decrease was partly offset by current year THALOMIDreturns, reflecting the impact of a 2007 inventory centralization and rationalization initiative conducted by several major pharmacy chains. Under this initiative, inventory was redistributed amongst individual chain stores in a S.T.E.P.S. compliant manner. This resulted in an increase in THALOMID returns as these major pharmacy chains more effectively managed their inventory levels at the chain stores. Discounts increased in 2007 compared to 2006 due primarily to increased sales of REVLIMID. Government rebate allowances increased in 2007 compared to 2006 due to increased sales of REVLIMID as well as price increases for both THALOMID and REVLIMID. Our Medicaid rebate accruals are based on the Medicaid Unit Rebate Amount formula established by the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services using the estimated Medicaid dispense quantities. REVLIMID dispenses increased resulting from the introduction of the 15mg and 25mg strength tablets. Distributor chargebacks increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to REVLIMID, THALOMID and ALKERAN IV price increases, which increased the differential between annual contract pricing available to federally funded healthcare providers and our wholesale acquisition cost. Collaborative Agreements and Other Revenue: 2008 compared to 2007: Revenues from collaborative agreements and other sources totaled $14.9 million and $20.1 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. The $5.2 million decrease in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to the elimination of license fees and amortization of deferred revenues related to Pharmion. 2007 compared to 2006: Revenues from collaborative agreements and other sources increased by $1.9 million in 2007 from the $18.2 million recorded in 2006. The increase was primarily due to an increase in license fees generated from our S.T.E.P.S. program and an increase in umbilical cord blood enrollment, collection and storage fees generated through our LifeBank USASM business. Royalty Revenue: 2008 compared to 2007: Revenues from royalties totaled $102.2 million in 2008, representing an increase of $16.9 million compared to 2007. The increase was primarily due to amounts received from Novartis on sales of FOCALIN XR, partly due to patients transitioning from FOCALIN to FOCALIN XR. We sell FOCALIN to Novartis and receive royalties on sales of Novartis FOCALIN XR. 42 Table of Contents 2007 compared to 2006: Revenues from royalties totaled $85.3 million in 2007, representing an increase of $16.2 million compared to 2006. The increase was primarily due to amounts received from Novartis on sales of their entire family of Ritalin drugs and FOCALIN XR. Royalty revenue totaled $69.1 million in 2006. Cost of Goods Sold (excluding amortization expense): Cost of goods sold and related percentages for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: In thousands $ 2008 2007 2006 Cost of goods sold (excluding amortization expense) $ 258,267 $ 130,211 $ 125,759 Increase from prior year $ 128,056 $ 4,452 $ 44,974 Percent increase from prior year 98.3 % 3.5 % 55.7 % Percent of net product sales 12.1 % 10.0 % 15.5 % 2008 compared to 2007: Cost of goods sold increased by $128.1 million in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to the inclusion of costs related to VIDAZA and THALOMID, which were obtained in the Pharmion acquisition. Also included in 2008 is $24.6 million of the $25.0 million of inventory step up cost related to the acquisition date fair value of former Pharmion inventories. Cost of sales also increased due to an increase in material costs for ALKERAN for injection and an increase in unit volume for REVLIMID, resulting in higher royalties. As a percent of net product sales, cost of goods sold increased to 12.1% in the 2008 from 10.0% in 2007 primarily due to the inclusion of higher costs for VIDAZA and ALKERAN and the $24.6 million of inventory step up cost. 2007 compared to 2006: Cost of goods sold increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to increases in REVLIMID material costs and royalty payments related to both REVLIMID and THALOMID as sales increased for these two products. The increase was partly offset by lower ALKERAN material costs related to ALKERAN for injection. As a percentage of net product sales, cost of goods sold decreased from 15.5% in 2006 to 10.0% in 2007 primarily due to the growth of REVLIMID and that products lower cost relative to our other products and sales price increases. Research and Development: Research and development expenses and related percentages for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: In thousands $ 2008 2007 2006 Research and development $ 931,218 $ 400,456 $ 259,956 Increase from prior year $ 530,762 $ 140,500 $ 66,890 Percent increase from prior year 132.5 % 54.0 % 34.6 % Percent of total revenue 41.3 % 28.5 % 28.9 % 2008 compared to 2007: Research and development expenses increased by $530.8 million in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to a $303.1 million charge for the October 3, 2008 royalty obligation payment to Pfizer that related to the unapproved forms of VIDAZA. In addition, spending on clinical programs increased by $147.4 million in support of ongoing clinical progress in multiple proprietary development programs as noted below. Regulatory spending increased by $20.2 million primarily due to the expansion of REVLIMID in international markets and costs related to apremilast, as described below. Also included in 2008 was $45.0 million in upfront payments made to Acceleron related to a research and development collaboration arrangement. The increase was partly offset by the 2007 inclusion of a combined $41.1 million in upfront payments for collaborative research and development arrangements for early stage compounds with Array BioPharma Inc. and PTC Therapeutics. 43 Table of Contents The following table provides an additional breakdown of research and development expenses: In thousands $ 2008 2007 Increase Human pharmaceutical clinical programs $ 287,412 $ 140,021 $ 147,391 Other pharmaceutical programs 579,210 202,855 376,355 Biopharmaceutical discovery and development 47,989 42,865 5,124 Placental stem cell programs 16,607 14,715 1,892 Total $ 931,218 $ 400,456 $ 530,762 Research and development expenditures support ongoing clinical progress in multiple proprietary development programs for REVLIMID, pomalidomide and other IMiDs compounds across a broad range of diseases, including NHL and CLL; for VIDAZA; amrubicin, our lead compound for small cell lung cancer; apremilast (CC 10004), our lead anti inflammatory compound that inhibits PDE 4, which results in the inhibition of multiple proinflammatory mediators such as TNF and which is currently being evaluated in Phase II clinical trials in the treatment of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis; pomalidomide and CC 11050, which are currently either being evaluated in Phase I and Phase II clinical trials and additional trials are being planned or ongoing for various disease indications; and our kinase inhibitor program, our activin inhibitor program as well as the placental stem cell program. We and Acceleron have initiated Phase II studies of ACE 011 in multiple myeloma patients suffering from cancer related bone loss. 2007 compared to 2006: Research and development expenses increased by $140.5 million in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to spending related to clinical research and development in support of multiple programs, including REVLIMID and other IMiDs across a broad range of cancers, including NHL and CLL. Expenses also increased to support ongoing research of other compounds, such as our kinase and ligase inhibitor programs and placental stem cell program. Regulatory spending increased primarily due to the expansion of REVLIMID in international markets. The expense for 2007 also included a combined $41.1 million in collaborative research and development arrangements for early stage compounds with Array and PTC. Research and development expense may continue to grow as earlier stage compounds are moved through the preclinical and clinical stages. Due to the significant risk factors and uncertainties inherent in preclinical tests and clinical trials associated with each of our research and development projects, the cost to complete such projects can vary. The data obtained from these tests and trials may be susceptible to varying interpretation that could delay, limit or prevent a projects advancement through the various stages of clinical development, which would significantly impact the costs incurred to bring a project to completion. For information about the commercial and development status and target diseases of our drug compounds, refer to the product overview table contained in Part I, Item I, Business, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 44 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative: Selling, general and administrative expenses and related percentages for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: In thousands $ 2008 2007 2006 Selling, general and administrative $ 685,547 $ 440,962 $ 329,749 Increase from prior year $ 244,585 $ 111,213 $ 152,079 Percent increase from prior year 55.5 % 33.7 % 85.6 % Percent of total revenue 30.4 % 31.4 % 36.7 % 2008 compared to 2007: Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $244.6 million in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily reflecting an increase in marketing expenses of $101.6 million, sales related costs of $65.9 million, general and administrative expenses of $63.8 million and an increase in donations to non profit foundations that assist patients with their co payments of $13.3 million. The increase reflects marketing and sales expenses related to product launch activities for REVLIMIDand THALOMID in Europe, Canada and Australia. The increase also reflects the activities related to the relaunch of VIDAZA in the United States after obtaining an expanded FDA approval to reflect new overall survival achieved in the AZA 001 survival study of patients with higher risk MDS and launch in Europe. In addition, the increase also reflects the continued expansion of our international commercial activities in over 65 countries. 2007 compared to 2006: Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $111.2 million in 2007 compared to 2006, reflecting an increase in sales force costs related to REVLIMID product launch activities in Europe and an increase in spending related to our continued expansion throughout Europe, Japan, Australia and Canada. Donations to non profit foundations that assist patients with their co payments also increased in 2007 compared to 2006. Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets: The $104.0 million in amortization of acquired intangible assets in 2008 included $102.4 million related to the March 2008 acquisition of Pharmion and $1.6 million resulting from the October 2004 acquisition of Penn T Limited. The Pharmion intangible assets are being amortized over a weighted average period of 6.5 years. The $9.1 million in amortization of acquisition intangibles in 2007 all related to the acquisition of Penn T Limited. Acquired In Process Research and Development: IPRD represents compounds under development by Pharmion at the date of acquisition that had not yet achieved regulatory approval for marketing in certain markets or had not yet been completed and have no alternative future use. The $1.74 billion estimated fair value of these intangibles was derived using the multi period excess earnings method, a form of the income approach. The IPRD primarily related to development and approval initiatives for VIDAZA IV in the EU market, the oral form of azacitidine in the U.S. and EU markets and THALOMID in the EU market. The projected cash flows for valuation purposes were based on key assumptions such as estimates of revenues and operating profits related to the programs considering their stages of development; the time and resources needed to complete the regulatory approval process for the products; and the life of the potential commercialized products and associated risks, including the inherent difficulties and uncertainties in obtaining regulatory approvals. For VIDAZA IV in the EU market, the related future net cash flows were estimated using a risk adjusted discount rate of 10.0% and an anticipated regulatory approval date in late 2008 with market exclusivity rights expected to continue through 2019. In December 2008, VIDAZA was granted full marketing authorization by the EC for the treatment of certain adult patients who are not eligible for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. For the oral form of azacitidine in the United States and European Union, the future net cash flows were estimated using a risk adjusted discount rate of 11.0% for each market. The anticipated regulatory approval in the European Union was assumed for 2013 with exclusivity continuing through 2023, and the anticipated regulatory approval in the United States was assumed for 2013 with exclusivity continuing through 2018. For THALOMID in the EU market, the future net cash flows were estimated by using a risk adjusted discount rate of 9.5% and an anticipated regulatory approval date in 2008 with exclusivity continuing through 2018. In April 2008, THALOMID was granted full marketing authorization by the EC for use in combination with melphalan and prednisone as a treatment for patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. 45 Table of Contents Interest and investment income, net: Interest and investment income, net and related percentages for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: In thousands $ 2008 2007 2006 Interest and investment income, net $ 84,835 $ 109,813 $ 40,352 Increase (decrease) from prior year $ (24,978 ) $ 69,461 $ 15,755 Percentage increase (decrease) from prior year (22.7 )% 172.1 % 64.3 % Interest and investment income was $84.8 million in 2008, representing a $25.0 million decrease from the $109.8 million recorded in 2007. The decrease was primarily due to lower average cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances resulting from the March 2008 cash payment of $746.8 million related to the Pharmion acquisition and the October 3, 2008 payment of $425.0 million to Pfizer where we prepaid our royalty obligation under the June 7, 2001 5 azacytidine license in full, in addition to reduced yields on invested balances. Interest and investment income, net included other than temporary impairment losses on marketable securities available for sale totaling $2.4 million in 2008 and $5.5 million 2007. Interest and investment income, net increased by $69.5 million in 2007 compared to 2006 due to higher average cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances resulting from the November 2006 issuance of an additional 20,000,000 shares of our common stock, which generated net proceeds of $1.006 billion. Equity in losses of affiliated companies: Under the equity method of accounting, we recorded losses of $3.7 million, $4.5 million and $8.2 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In addition, impairment losses of $6.0 million were recorded in 2008. The impairment losses were based on an evaluation of several factors, including an other than temporary decrease in fair value of an equity investment below our cost. The $3.7 million decrease in losses in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to a charge of $3.1 million for in process research and development related to an acquisition made by one of our investment companies in 2006. Interest expense: Interest expense was $4.4 million, $11.1 million and $9.4 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and primarily reflected interest and amortization of debt issuance costs related to the $400 million convertible notes issued on June 3, 2003. The $6.7 million decrease in 2008 was primarily due to a substantial conversion of convertible debt into our common stock in December 2007 and the completion of conversions in June 2008. Interest expense increased $1.7 million in 2007 compared to 2006 due to the inclusion of a full years interest on the note payable to Siegfried Ltd. and Siegfried Dienste AG (together referred to herein as Siegfried), resulting from the December 2006 acquisition of the API manufacturing facility in Zofingen, Switzerland. Other income (expense), net: Other income (expense), net for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: In thousands $ 2008 2007 2006 Other income (expense), net $ 24,722 $ (2,350 ) $ 5,502 Increase (decrease) in income from prior year $ 27,072 $ (7,852 ) $ 12,220 46 Table of Contents Other income (expense), net was income of $24.7 million in 2008 and an expense of $2.4 million in 2007. The $27.1 million increase in income was primarily due to favorable foreign exchange rates, which was partly offset by an other than temporary impairment loss recorded on an equity investment. The expense in 2007 included expenses related to a termination benefit resulting from the modification of certain outstanding stock options of a terminated employee and was partly offset by foreign exchange gains. The $7.9 million decrease in other income (expense), net in 2007 compared to 2006 was partly due to the modification of certain outstanding stock options and a $3.8 million decrease in foreign exchange gains. Income tax provision: The income tax provision for 2008 was $164.8 million with an effective tax rate of negative 12.0%. The effective tax rate was negatively impacted by non deductible IPRD charges incurred in connection with the acquisition of Pharmion. The effective tax rate, excluding the impact of the IPRD and the expense related to the prepayment of our royalty obligation for unapproved products, was 24.8% which reflects the benefit of our low tax Swiss manufacturing operations and our overall global mix of income. The income tax provisions for 2007 and 2006 were $290.5 million and $133.9 million, respectively, with effective tax rates of 56.2% and 66.0%, respectively, and reflected the impact of certain expenses incurred in taxing jurisdictions outside the United States for which we did not receive a tax benefit and nondeductible expenses which included share based compensation expense related to incentive stock options. Net income (loss): Net income (loss) and per common share amounts for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: In thousands $, except per share amounts 2008 2007 2006 Net income (loss) $ (1,533,653 ) $ 226,433 $ 68,981 Per common share amounts: Basic $ (3.46 ) $ 0.59 $ 0.20 Diluted (1) $ (3.46 ) $ 0.54 $ 0.18 Weighted average shares: Basic 442,620 383,225 352,217 Diluted 442,620 431,858 407,181 (1) In computing diluted earnings per share for 2007 and 2006, the numerator has been adjusted to add back the after tax amount of interest expense recognized in the year on our convertible debt. No adjustment to the numerator or denominator was made in 2008 due to the anti dilutive effect of any potential common stock as a result of our net loss. 2008 compared to 2007: Net income decreased by $1.760 billion in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to $1.740 billion in IPRD charges and $102.3 million in acquired intangibles amortization related to the acquisition of Pharmion in March 2008, in addition to a $303.1 million charge for the October 3, 2008 royalty obligation payment to Pfizer that related to the unapproved forms of VIDAZA. These costs were partly offset by an increase in net revenues provided by REVLIMID and VIDAZA. 2007 compared to 2006: Net income increased by $157.5 million in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to an increase in total revenues, primarily from the sales of REVLIMID; increase in interest and investment income resulting from the issuance of an additional 20,000,000 shares of common stock in November 2006; decrease in the overall income tax rate from 66% in 2006 to 56% in 2007; partially offset by increased operating expenses required to support organizational growth, research and development and the launch of REVLIMID in Europe. 47 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: Increase (Decrease) 2008 2007 versus versus In thousands $ 2008 2007 2006 2007 2006 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 182,187 $ 477,500 $ 83,561 $ (295,313 ) $ 393,939 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities $ (522,246 ) $ (990,186 ) $ 6,784 $ 467,940 $ (996,970 ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 281,629 $ 287,695 $ 1,221,246 $ (6,066 ) $ (933,551 ) Operating Activities: Net cash provided by operating activities in 2008 decreased by $295.3 million to $182.2 million as compared to 2007. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily attributable to: the October 3, 2008 prepayment of our royalty obligation under the June 7, 2001 5 azacytidine license in full for $425.0 million, timing of receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business and partly offset by an expansion of our operations. Also see discussion of cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and working capital below. Investing Activities: Net cash used in investing activities in 2008 decreased by $467.9 million to $522.2 million as compared to 2007. The decrease in net cash used in by investing activities was primarily attributable to: net proceeds from net sales of marketable securities available for sale of $312.1 million in 2008 compared to net purchases of $893.3 million in 2007 and offset by the $746.8 million of cash paid to acquire Pharmion. Capital expenditures made in 2008, 2007 and 2006 related primarily to the expansion of our manufacturing capabilities, upgrades to our facilities, as well as spending on computer and laboratory equipment to accommodate our business growth. In 2008, capital expenditures also included the cost of implementing the Oracle Enterprise Business Suite, or EBS. In 2007, capital expenditures also included the cost of building our international headquarters in Boudry, Switzerland and computer equipment. In 2006, capital expenditures also included the purchase of machinery and equipment to support our business growth. For 2009, we are forecasting capital expenditures in the range of approximately $60 million to $70 million compared to approximately $77.4 million in 2008, and we expect to fund this with our operating cash flows. Financing Activities: Net cash provided by financing activities for 2008 decreased by $6.1 million to $281.6 million as compared to 2007. The decrease in net cash provided by financing activities was primarily attributable to: a decrease in the proceeds from the exercise of common stock options and warrants partly offset by an increase in the tax benefit from share based compensation arrangements. 48 Table of Contents Cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and working capital: Working capital and cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were as follows: 2008 In thousands $ 2008 2007 Decrease Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 2,222,091 $ 2,738,918 $ 756,698 Working capital (1) $ 2,299,122 $ 2,835,205 $ 844,236 (1) Includes cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, accounts receivable, net of allowances, inventory and other current assets, less accounts payable, accrued expenses, income taxes payable and other current liabilities. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities Available for Sale: We invest our excess cash primarily in money market funds, U.S. Treasury fixed rate securities, U.S. government sponsored agency fixed rate securities, U.S. government sponsored agency mortgage backed fixed rate securities, and FDIC guaranteed fixed rate corporate debt. All liquid investments with maturities of three months or less from the date of purchase are classified as cash equivalents and all investments with maturities of greater than three months from the date of purchase are classified as marketable securities available for sale. We determine the appropriate classification of our investments in marketable debt and equity securities at the time of purchase. The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities available for sale in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to the net payment of $746.8 million relating to the Pharmion acquisition and the October 3, 2008 prepayment of our royalty obligation under the June 7, 2001 5 azacytidine license in full for $425.0 million, which was partly offset by increased cash generated from operations. Accounts Receivable, Net: Accounts receivable, net increased by $145.0 million to $312.2 million in 2008 compared to 2007 partly due to the inclusion of receivables related to sales of VIDAZA and THALOMID, which were obtained from the Pharmion acquisition and an increase in sales of REVLIMID. Days of sales outstanding, or DSO, in 2008 amounted to 42 days compared to 41 days in 2007. The increase in DSO reflects increased international sales for which collection periods are longer than for U.S. sales. Inventory: Inventory in 2008 totaled $100.2 million and increased by $51.1 million compared to 2007 primarily as a result of the addition of VIDAZA inventory and a higher level of THALOMID inventory in anticipation of launches in European markets. Other Current Assets: Other current assets in 2008 totaled $190.4 million and increased by $81.8 million compared to 2007 primarily due to an increase in sales, use and value added taxes as a result of our continued international expansion, in addition to the current portion of the prepaid VIDAZA royalty obligation. Accounts Payable, Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities: Accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities totaled $474.7 million in 2008 and increased $250.9 million compared to 2007. The increase was primarily due to $27.6 million remaining balance in restructuring reserves related to the acquisition of Pharmion, the inclusion of a net liability of $59.1 million for foreign currency forward hedging contracts, a $35.4 million increase in clinical related spending, a $34.5 million increase in compensation related liabilities and an increase in sales return, rebate and chargeback accruals of $17.2 million. Income Taxes Payable (Current and Non Current): Income taxes payable increased $193.4 million in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily from provisions for income taxes of $290.8 million and tax liabilities acquired in the Pharmion acquisition of $108.8 million partially offset by tax payments of $29.3 million and a tax benefit on stock option exercises of $172.6 million. 49 Table of Contents We expect continued growth in our expenditures, particularly those related to research and product development, clinical trials, regulatory approvals, international expansion, commercialization of products and capital investments. However, we anticipate that existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities available for sale, combined with cash received from expected net product sales and royalty agreements, will provide sufficient capital resources to fund our operations for the foreseeable future. Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2008: Payment Due By Period Less than More than In thousands $ 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years 5 Years Total Operating leases $ 19,334 $ 32,325 $ 14,804 $ 13,767 $ 80,230 Manufacturing facility note payable $ 3,835 $ 7,671 $ 7,484 $ 11,225 $ 30,215 Other contract commitments $ 43,135 $ 5,437 $ $ $ 48,572 Total $ 66,304 $ 45,433 $ 22,288 $ 24,992 $ 159,017 Operating leases: We lease office and research facilities under various operating lease agreements in the United States and various international markets. The non cancelable lease terms for the operating leases expire at various dates between 2009 and 2017 and include renewal options. In general, we are also required to reimburse the lessors for real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, maintenance and other operating costs associated with the leases. For more information on the major facilities that we occupy under lease arrangements refer to Part I, Item 2, Properties of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Manufacturing Facility Note Payable: In December 2006, we purchased an active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, manufacturing facility and certain other assets and liabilities from Siegfried located in Zofingen, Switzerland. At December 31, 2008, the fair value of our note payable to Siegfried approximated the carrying value of the note of $26.0 million. Assuming other factors are held constant, an increase in interest rates generally will result in a decrease in the fair value of the note. The note is denominated in Swiss francs and its fair value will also be affected by changes in the U.S. dollar / Swiss franc exchange rate. The carrying value of the note reflects the U.S. dollar / Swiss franc exchange rate and Swiss interest rates. Other Contract Commitments: Other contract commitments include $31.2 million in contractual obligations related to product supply contracts that were assumed by us with the Pharmion acquisition. We have committed to invest $20.0 million in an investment fund over a ten year period, which is callable at any time. On December 31, 2008, our remaining investment commitment was $14.1 million. For more information refer to Note 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Income Taxes Payable: We have provided a liability for unrecognized tax benefits related to various federal, state and foreign income tax matters of $385.2 million at December 31, 2008 of which $26.6 million is classified as current. The remaining balance of $358.6 million is classified as non current because the timing of the settlement of these amounts is not reasonably estimable as of December 31, 2008. We do not expect a settlement of the unrecognized tax benefits classified as non current within the next 12 months. Collaboration Arrangements: We have entered into certain research and development collaboration arrangements with third parties that include the funding of certain development, manufacturing and commercialization efforts with the potential for future milestone and royalty payments upon the achievement of pre established developmental, regulatory and /or commercial targets. Our obligation to fund these efforts is contingent upon continued involvement in the programs and or the lack of any adverse events which could cause the discontinuance of the programs. Due to the nature of these arrangements, the future potential payments are inherently uncertain, and accordingly no amounts have been recorded on our contractual obligations table. 50 Table of Contents New Accounting Principles In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, or SFAS 157, which establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The FASB partially deferred the effective date of SFAS 157 for non financial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a nonrecurring basis to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The effective date for financial assets and liabilities that are recognized on a recurring basis was January 1, 2008. We have determined that our adoption of SFAS 157 on January 1, 2008 for financial assets and liabilities did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for expanded disclosures required by SFAS 157. We currently do not expect that the adoption of SFAS 157 related to non financial assets will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, or SFAS 159, which provides companies with an option to report selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value. SFAS 159 establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between companies that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities and highlights the effect of a companys choice to use fair value on its earnings. It also requires a company to display the fair value of those assets and liabilities for which it has chosen to use fair value on the face of the balance sheet. SFAS 159 was effective for us beginning January 1, 2008 and did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements as we did not choose to use the fair value option. In June 2007, the FASB ratified Emerging Issues Task Force, or EITF, Issue No. 07 3, Accounting for Non Refundable Advance Payments for Goods or Services to be Used in Future Research and Development Activities, or EITF 07 3, which provides that non refundable advance payments for future research and development activities should be deferred and capitalized until the related goods are delivered or the related services are performed. EITF 07 3 was effective for us on a prospective basis beginning January 1, 2008 and did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 07 1, Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements Related to the Development and Commercialization of Intellectual Property, or EITF 07 1, which provides guidance on how the parties to a collaborative agreement should account for costs incurred and revenue generated on sales to third parties, how sharing payments pursuant to a collaboration agreement should be presented in the income statement and certain related disclosure requirements. EITF 07 1 will be effective for us beginning January 1, 2009 on a retrospective basis. We currently do not expect that the adoption of EITF 07 1 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R, Business Combinations, or SFAS 141R, which replaces FASB Statement No. 141, Business Combinations, and requires an acquirer to recognize the assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the acquisition date, measured at their fair values as of that date, with limited exceptions specified in SFAS 141R. SFAS 141R amended SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, or SFAS 109, and FASB Interpretation No., or FIN, 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, or FIN 48. Previously, SFAS 109 and FIN 48, respectively, generally required post acquisition adjustments to a 51 Table of Contents business combination related deferred tax asset valuation allowance and liabilities related to uncertain tax positions to be recorded as an increase or decrease to goodwill. SFAS 141R does not permit this accounting and generally will require any such changes to be recorded in current period income tax expense. Thus, after SFAS 141R is adopted, all changes to valuation allowances and liabilities related to uncertain tax positions from an acquisition (whether the combination was accounted for under SFAS 141 or SFAS 141R) must be recognized in current period income tax expense. SFAS 141R is effective prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. SFAS 141R is effective for us beginning January 1, 2009 and we will account for future business combinations in accordance with its provisions, in addition to adopting its provisions related to post acquisition adjustments to taxes. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an Amendment of ARB No. 51, or SFAS 160, which changes the accounting for and reporting of noncontrolling interests (formerly known as minority interests) in consolidated financial statements. It is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2008, with early adoption prohibited. Upon implementation, prior periods will be recast for the changes required by SFAS 160. We currently do not expect that the adoption of SFAS 160 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, or SFAS 161, which is intended to improve financial reporting about derivative instruments and hedging activities by requiring enhanced disclosures to enable investors to better understand their effects on an entitys financial position, financial performance and cash flows. It is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008, with early adoption encouraged. SFAS 161 is effective for us during the interim period beginning January 1, 2009 and we will adopt the disclosure provisions in our financial statements as of March 31, 2009. In April 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position, or FSP, No. FAS 142 3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets, or FSP FAS 142 3. FSP FAS 142 3 amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. FSP FAS142 3 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, with early adoption prohibited. We currently do not expect that the adoption of FSP FAS 142 3 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In May 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. APB 14 1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement), or FSP APB 14 1, which requires separate accounting for the debt and equity components of convertible debt issuances that have a cash settlement feature permitting settlement partially or fully in cash upon conversion. A component of such debt issuances representative of the approximate fair value of the conversion feature at inception should be bifurcated and recorded to equity, with the resulting debt discount amortized to interest expense in a manner that reflects the issuers nonconvertible, unsecured debt borrowing rate. The requirements for separate accounting must be applied retrospectively to previously issued convertible debt issuances as well as prospectively to newly issued convertible debt issuances, negatively affecting both net income and earnings per share, in financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Since our past convertible debt issuance did not include a cash settlement feature, the adoption of FSP APB 14 1 will not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements. In June 2008, the FASB issued FSP EITF No. 03 6 1, Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities, or FSP EITF 03 6 1. The FSP addresses whether instruments granted in share based payment transactions are participating securities prior to vesting and therefore need to be included in the earnings allocation in calculating earnings per share under the two class method described in SFAS No. 128, Earnings per Share. The FSP requires companies to treat unvested share based payment awards that have non forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents as a separate class of securities in calculating earnings per share. The FSP is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, with early adoption prohibited. Since our past share based payment awards did not include non forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, the adoption of FSP EITF 03 6 1 will not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements. 52 Table of Contents In October 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 157 3, Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active, or FSP FAS 157 3. The FSP clarifies the application of FASB Statement No. 157 in a market that is not active and provides an example to illustrate key considerations in determining the fair value of a financial asset when the market for that financial asset is not active. The FSP was effective upon issuance, including prior periods for which financial statements have not been issued and did not have a material impact on our financial statements. In November 2008, the FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 08 6, Equity Method Investment Accounting Considerations, or EITF 08 6, which clarifies the accounting for certain transactions and impairment considerations involving equity method investments. EITF 08 6 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, with early adoption prohibited. We currently do not expect that the adoption of EITF 08 6 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In November 2008, the FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 08 7, Accounting for Defensive Intangible Assets, or EITF 08 7, which clarifies the accounting for certain separately identifiable intangible assets which an acquirer does not intend to actively use but intends to hold to prevent its competitors from obtaining access to them. EITF 08 7 requires an acquirer in a business combination to account for a defensive intangible asset as a separate unit of accounting which should be amortized to expense over the period the asset diminishes in value. EITF 08 7 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, with early adoption prohibited. It is effective prospectively for intangible assets acquired on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. EITF 08 7 is effective for us beginning January 1, 2009 and we will account for defensive intangible assets acquired in future business combinations in accordance with its provisions. Critical Accounting Estimates and Significant Accounting Policies A critical accounting policy is one that is both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operation and requires managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. While our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report, we believe the following accounting estimates and policies to be critical: Revenue Recognition on Collaboration Agreements: We have formed collaborative research and development agreements and alliances with several pharmaceutical companies. These agreements are in the form of research and development and license agreements. The agreements call for non refundable upfront payments, milestone payments on achieving significant milestone events and in some cases ongoing research funding. The agreements also contemplate royalty payments on sales if and when the compounds receive regulatory marketing approval. Our revenue recognition policies for all non refundable upfront license fees and milestone arrangements are in accordance with the guidance provided in the Securities and Exchange Commissions Staff Accounting Bulletin, or SAB, No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements, as amended by SAB No. 104, Revenue Recognition, or SAB 104. In addition, we follow the provisions of EITF Issue No. 00 21, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables, or EITF 00 21, for multiple element revenue arrangements entered into or materially amended after June 30, 2003. EITF 00 21 provides guidance on how to determine when an arrangement that involves multiple revenue generating activities or deliverables should be divided into separate units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes and, if this division is required, how the arrangement consideration should be allocated among the separate units of accounting. If the deliverables in a revenue arrangement constitute separate units of accounting according to the EITFs separation criteria, the revenue recognition policy must be determined for each identified unit. If the arrangement is a single unit of accounting, the revenue recognition policy must be determined for the entire arrangement. 53 Table of Contents Under arrangements where the license fees and research and development activities can be accounted for as a separate unit of accounting, non refundable upfront license fees are deferred and recognized as revenue on a straight line basis over the expected term of our continued involvement in the research and development process. Revenues from the achievement of research and development milestones, if deemed substantive, are recognized as revenue when the milestones are achieved, and the milestone payments are due and collectible. Milestones are considered substantive if all of the following conditions are met: (1) the milestone is non refundable; (2) achievement of the milestone was not reasonably assured at the inception of the arrangement; (3) substantive effort is involved to achieve the milestone; and (4) the amount of the milestone appears reasonable in relation to the effort expended, the other milestones in the arrangement and the related risk associated with achievement of the milestone. If any of these conditions are not met, we would recognize a proportionate amount of the milestone payment upon receipt as revenue that correlates to work already performed and the remaining portion of the milestone payment will be deferred and recognized as revenue as we complete our performance obligations. Gross to Net Sales Accruals for Sales Returns, Government Rebates and Chargebacks and Distributor Service Fees: Our gross to net sales accruals for Sales Returns, Government Rebates and Chargebacks and Distributor Service Fees are based on our sales and or estimates of third party inventories. Our distribution programs in certain markets and our accrual methodologies are described in more detail below. THALOMID is distributed under our S.T.E.P.S. distribution program. Among other things, S.T.E.P.S., which is a proprietary comprehensive education and risk management distribution program, requires prescribers, patients and dispensing pharmacies to participate in a registry and prohibits the filling of a THALOMID order unless the physician, patient and pharmacy have all obtained an appropriate authorization number. Automatic refills are not permitted under the program. Each prescription may not exceed a 28 day supply and a new prescription is required with each order. Although we invoice through traditional pharmaceutical wholesalers, all THALOMID orders are drop shipped directly to the prescribing pharmacy overnight. Wholesaler stocking of this product is prohibited. In addition, we do not offer commercial discounts on our products to pharmacies or hospitals and, therefore, have no commercial distributor chargebacks. REVLIMID is distributed under the RevAssist program, which is a proprietary risk management distribution program tailored specifically to help ensure the safe use of REVLIMID, and is sold primarily through contracted pharmacies lending itself to tighter controls of inventory quantities within the supply channel. The RevAssist program includes most of the same attributes of the S.T.E.P.S. program mentioned above. VIDAZA is distributed through the more traditional pharmaceutical industry supply chain. VIDAZA is not subjected to S.T.E.P.S. or RevAssist distribution restrictions. It may be stocked by multiple wholesalers and prescribed by physicians without our preauthorization. 54 Table of Contents ALKERAN is distributed in a similar fashion as VIDAZA. Sales Returns: We base our sales returns allowance on estimated on hand retail/hospital inventories, measured end customer demand as reported by third party sources, actual returns history and other factors, such as the trend experience for lots where product is still being returned or inventory centralization and rationalization initiatives conducted by major pharmacy chains, as applicable. If the historical data we use to calculate these estimates does not properly reflect future returns, then a change in the allowance would be made in the period in which such a determination is made and revenues in that period could be materially affected. Under this methodology, we track actual returns by individual production lots. We analyze historic returns experience on closed lots and historical return trend rates on open lots. Any changes from the historical trend rates are considered in determining the current sales return allowance. THALOMID is drop shipped directly to the prescribing pharmacy and, as a result, wholesalers do not stock the product, although the prescribing pharmacy/hospital may stock THALOMID. REVLIMID is distributed primarily through contracted specialty pharmacies lending itself to tighter controls of inventory quantities within the supply channel and, thus, resulting in lower returns activity to date. VIDAZA and ALKERAN are sold in the United States to pharmaceutical wholesalers, who in turn distribute product to physicians, retail pharmacies, hospitals and other institutional customers. External factors such as price changes from competitors and introductions of new and generic competing products could have an impact on our sales returns. Our sales returns have not been impacted thus far by such external factors; however, we continue to monitor such factors. Government Rebates: Government rebate accruals are based on estimated payments due to governmental agencies for purchases made by third parties under various governmental programs. U.S. Medicaid rebate accruals are based on historical payment data and estimates of future Medicaid beneficiary utilization applied to the Medicaid unit rebate amount formula established by the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services. Certain foreign markets have government sponsored programs that require rebates to be paid and accordingly the rebate accruals are determined primarily on estimated eligible sales. Chargebacks and Distributor Service Fees: Chargebacks are based on the differentials between product acquisition prices paid by wholesalers and lower government contract pricing paid by eligible customers covered under federally qualified programs. Distributor service fees accruals are based on contractual fees to be paid to the wholesale distributor for services provided. On January 28, 2008, the Fiscal Year 2008 National Defense Authorization Act was enacted, which expands TRICARE to include prescription drugs dispensed by TRICARE retail network pharmacies. TRICARE rebate accruals reflect this program expansion and are based on estimated Department of Defense eligible sales multiplied by the TRICARE rebate formula. Other Gross to Net Sales Accruals: We record sales discounts accruals based on payment terms extended to customers. Income Taxes: We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for years in which the temporary differences are expected to reverse. We provide a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets will not be realized. We adopted the provisions of FIN 48 and FSP FIN 48 1, Definition of Settlement in FASB Interpretation No. 48, or FSP FIN 48 1, effective January 1, 2007. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprises financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109 and prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. We had no cumulative effect adjustment related to the adoption. We account for interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions as part of our provision for income taxes. These unrecognized tax benefits relate primarily to issues common among multinational corporations in our industry. We apply a variety of methodologies in making these estimates which include studies performed by independent economists, advice from industry and subject experts, evaluation of public actions taken by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities, as well as our own industry experience. We provide estimates for unrecognized tax benefits. If our estimates are not representative of actual outcomes, our results of operations could be materially impacted. 55 Table of Contents We periodically evaluate the likelihood of the realization of deferred tax assets, and reduce the carrying amount of these deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience by taxing jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income, carryforward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, various income tax strategies and other relevant factors. Significant judgment is required in making this assessment and, to the extent future expectations change, we would have to assess the recoverability of our deferred tax assets at that time. At December 31, 2008, it was more likely than not that we would realize our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances. Share Based Compensation: We adopted the provisions of SFAS, No. 123R, Share Based Payment, or SFAS 123R, effective January 1, 2006, which requires that all share based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements at their fair values. We adopted SFAS 123R using the modified prospective application method under which the provisions of SFAS 123R apply to new awards and to awards modified, repurchased or cancelled after the adoption date. We use the Black Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of options on the date of grant which requires certain estimates to be made by management including the expected forfeiture rate and expected term of the options. Management also makes decisions regarding the method of calculating the expected volatilities and the risk free interest rate used in the model. Fluctuations in the market that affect these estimates could have an impact on the resulting compensation cost. Additionally, compensation cost for the portion of awards for which the requisite service has not been rendered that are outstanding as of the adoption date is recognized over the remaining service period after the adoption date (for additional information refer to Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K). Other Than Temporary Impairments of Available For Sale Marketable Securities: A decline in the market value of any available for sale marketable security below its cost that is deemed to be other than temporary results in a reduction in carrying amount to fair value. The impairment is charged to operations and a new cost basis for the security established. The determination of whether an available for sale marketable security is other than temporarily impaired requires significant judgment and requires consideration of available quantitative and qualitative evidence in evaluating the potential impairment. Factors evaluated to determine whether the investment is other than temporarily impaired include: significant deterioration in the issuers earnings performance, credit rating, asset quality, business prospects of the issuer, adverse changes in the general market conditions in which the issuer operates, length of time that the fair value has been below our cost, our expected future cash flows from the security and our intent and ability to retain the investment for a sufficient period of time to allow for recovery in the market value of the investment. Assumptions associated with these factors are subject to future market and economic conditions, which could differ from our assessment. Derivatives and Hedging Activities: SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, or SFAS 133, as amended, requires that all derivative instruments be recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recorded each period in current earnings or other comprehensive income (loss), depending on whether a derivative instrument is designated as part of a hedging transaction and, if it is, the type of hedging transaction. For a derivative to qualify as a hedge at inception and throughout the hedged period, we formally document the nature and relationships between the hedging instruments and hedged item. We assess, both at inception and on an on going basis, whether the derivative instruments that are used in cash flow hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting the changes in cash flows of hedged items. We assess hedge ineffectiveness on a quarterly basis and record the gain or loss related to the ineffective portion of derivative instruments, if any, to current earnings. If we determine that a forecasted transaction is no longer probable of occurring, we discontinue hedge accounting and any related unrealized gain or loss on the derivative instrument is recognized in current earnings. We use derivative instruments, including those not designated as part of a hedging transaction, to manage our exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates. The use of these derivative instruments modifies the exposure of these risks with the intent to reduce our risk or cost. We do not use derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes and are not a party to leveraged derivatives. 56 Table of Contents Investment in Affiliated Companies: Our investment in affiliated companies is comprised of investments in common stock of affiliated companies and investment funds which primarily invest in companies conducting business in life sciences such as biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, medical technology, devices, diagnostics and health and wellness. If the carrying value of an asset were to exceed its fair value, we would review it to determine if an other than temporary decline in value of the investment has been sustained. If the investment is determined to have sustained an other than temporary decline in value, the investment would be written down to its fair value. Such an evaluation is judgmental and dependent on the specific facts and circumstances. Factors that we consider in determining whether an other than temporary decline in value has occurred include: the market value of the security in relation to its cost basis, the period of time that the market value is below cost, the financial condition of the investee and our intent and ability to retain the investment for a sufficient period of time to allow for recovery in the market value of the investment. We evaluate information that we are aware of in addition to quoted market prices, if any, in determining if an other than temporary decline in value exists. Accounting for Long Term Incentive Plans: We have established a Long Term Incentive Plan, or LTIP, designed to provide key officers and executives with performance based incentive opportunities contingent upon achievement of pre established corporate performance objectives covering a three year period. We currently have two three year performance cycles running concurrently ending December 31, 2009 and 2010. We also anticipate the approval of a new 3 year performance cycle ending December 31, 2011 to be adopted by the Board of Directors at the end of February 2009. Performance measures for each LTIP are based on the following components in the last year of the three year cycle: 25% on earnings per share, 25% on net income and 50% on total revenue, as defined. Payouts may be in the range of 0% to 200% of the participants salary for the plans. Awards are payable in cash or, at our discretion, in our common stock based upon our stock price at the payout date. We accrue the long term incentive liability over each three year cycle. Prior to the end of a three year cycle, the accrual is based on an estimate of our level of achievement during the cycle. Upon a change in control, participants will be entitled to an immediate payment equal to their target award, or, if higher, an award based on actual performance through the date of the change in control. Accruals recorded for the LTIP entail making certain assumptions concerning future earnings per share, net income and revenues, as defined; the actual results of which could be materially different than the assumptions used. Accruals for the LTIP are reviewed on a regular basis and revised accordingly so that the liability recorded reflects updated estimates of future payouts. In estimating the accruals, management considers actual results to date for the performance period, expected results for the remainder of the performance period, operating trends, product development, pricing and competition. Valuation of acquired intangible assets and acquired in process research and development: We have acquired intangible assets primarily through business combinations. When identifiable intangible assets, including in process research and development, are acquired we determine the fair values of these assets as of the acquisition date. Discounted cash flow models are typically used in these valuations, and the models require the use of significant estimates and assumptions including but not limited to: projecting regulatory approvals, estimating future cash flows from product sales resulting from completed products and in process projects and developing appropriate discount rates and probability rates. 57 Table of Contents Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets: We account for goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with SFAS 141, Business Combinations, or SFAS 141, (replaced by SFAS 141R for business combinations consummated on or after January 1, 2009) and SFAS 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, or SFAS 142. SFAS 141 requires that the purchase method of accounting be used for all business combinations. It specifies the criteria which intangible assets acquired in a business combination must meet in order to be recognized and reported apart from goodwill. SFAS 142 requires that goodwill and intangible assets determined to have indefinite lives be tested for impairment at least annually and whenever events or circumstances occur that indicate impairment might have occurred. Our identifiable intangible assets are subject to amortization. SFAS 142 requires that intangible assets with finite useful lives be amortized over their respective estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment in accordance with SFAS 144. SFAS 144 requires, among other things, that long lived assets be measured at the lower of carrying amount or fair value, less cost to sell. We review our intangibles with determinable lives and other long lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Our judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based on historical and projected future operating results, changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or our overall business strategy, and market and economic trends. In the future, events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that certain other intangibles with determinable lives and other long lived assets are impaired which may result in an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The following discussion provides forward looking quantitative and qualitative information about our potential exposure to market risk. Market risk represents the potential loss arising from adverse changes in the value of financial instruments. The risk of loss is assessed based on the likelihood of adverse changes in fair values, cash flows or future earnings. We have established guidelines relative to the diversification and maturities of investments to maintain safety and liquidity. These guidelines are reviewed periodically and may be modified depending on market conditions. Although investments may be subject to credit risk, our investment policy specifies credit quality standards for our investments and limits the amount of credit exposure from any single issue, issuer or type of investment. At December 31, 2008, our market risk sensitive instruments consisted of marketable securities available for sale, our note payable and certain foreign currency forward contracts. Marketable Securities Available for Sale: At December 31, 2008, our marketable securities available for sale consisted of U.S. Treasury fixed rate securities, U.S. government sponsored agency fixed rate securities, U.S. government sponsored agency mortgage backed fixed rate securities, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, guaranteed fixed rate corporate debt, private cash fund shares and a marketable equity security. U.S. government sponsored agency securities include general unsecured obligations of the issuing agency, including issues from the Federal Home Loan Bank, or FHLB, Fannie Mae, and Freddie Mac. U.S. government sponsored agency mortgage backed securities include fixed rate asset backed securities issued by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Government National Mortgage Association, or GNMA. FDIC guaranteed corporate debt includes obligations of bank holding companies that meet certain criteria set forth under the Temporary Liquidity Guaranty Program, or TLGP, and is unconditionally guaranteed by the FDIC. 58 Table of Contents Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, FHLB and GNMA are regulated by the recently established Federal Housing Finance Agency, or FHFA. On September 7, 2008, the U.S. government, through the FHFA and the U.S. Treasury, announced that it was placing both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship, with the FHFA assuming their day to day operations. On that same day, the U.S. Treasury established a new secured lending credit facility available to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which is intended to serve as an ultimate liquidity backstop. This action, in essence, implemented the temporary liquidity backstop authority granted to the U.S. Treasury by Congress in July 2008, and will be available until December 2009. These measures were taken with the goal of preserving the value of the debt and mortgage backed securities issued by these U.S. government sponsored agencies as well as to ensure that these agencies have future access to capital. The U.S. Treasury and the Federal Reserve Bank, or Fed, continue to monitor the capital requirements and access to liquidity for the U.S. government sponsored agencies. Working with the Congress and the Office of the President, the U.S. Treasury and the Fed have pledged to continue to provide capital and liquidity to the U.S. government sponsored agencies. We have not recorded any impairments against our holdings in these securities. Marketable securities available for sale are carried at fair value, held for an unspecified period of time and intended for use in meeting our ongoing liquidity needs. Unrealized gains and losses on available for sale securities, which are deemed to be temporary, are reported as a separate component of stockholders equity, net of tax. The cost of debt securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. The amortization, along with realized gains and losses and other than temporary impairment charges, is included in interest and investment income, net. As of December 31, 2008, the principal amounts, fair values and related weighted average interest rates of our investments in debt securities classified as marketable securities available for sale were as follows: Duration Less than More Than In thousands $ 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years 5 Years Total Principal amount $ 402,472 $ 595,359 $ 73,611 $ 21,328 $ 1,092,770 Fair value $ 408,274 $ 617,802 $ 80,138 $ 23,084 $ 1,129,298 Average interest rate 1.6 % 1.8 % 1.6 % 3.9 % 1.8 % Note Payable: In December 2006, we purchased an active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, manufacturing facility and certain other assets and liabilities from Siegfried. At December 31, 2008, the fair value of our note payable to Siegfried approximated the carrying value of the note of $26.0 million (See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report). Assuming other factors are held constant, an increase in interest rates generally will result in a decrease in the fair value of the note. The note is denominated in Swiss francs and its fair value will also be affected by changes in the U.S. dollar / Swiss franc exchange rate. The carrying value of the note reflects the U.S. dollar / Swiss franc exchange rate and Swiss interest rates. Foreign Currency Forward Contracts: We use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge specific forecasted transactions denominated in foreign currencies and to reduce exposures to foreign currency fluctuations of certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. 59 Table of Contents We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to protect against changes in foreign currency cash flows resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily associated with U.S. dollar denominated expenses incurred by subsidiaries in Europe. We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to protect against changes in anticipated foreign currency cash flows resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily associated with product sales in Europe. These foreign currency forward contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and accordingly, to the extent effective, any unrealized gains or losses on them are reported in other comprehensive income (loss) and reclassified to earnings in the same periods during which the underlying hedged transactions affect earnings. Any ineffectiveness on these foreign currency forward contracts is reported in other income (expense), net. The foreign currency forward hedging contracts outstanding at December 31, 2008 had an aggregate notional amount of approximately $704.2 million and had settlement dates within 24 months. The fair value of these contracts was a net liability of $48.4 million at December 31, 2008 and is reflected in other current assets of $1.6 million and other current liabilities of $50.0 million. We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to reduce exposures to foreign currency fluctuations of certain recognized assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. At December 31, 2008, we had foreign currency forward contracts outstanding denominated in various currencies, including Euros, Swiss Francs, British Pounds, Japanese Yen and U.S. Dollars, with an aggregate notional amount of approximately $56.6 million and expiring within 12 months. The foreign currency forward contracts are economic hedges of certain assets and liabilities that are remeasured through earnings each period along with the underlying hedged item. At December 31, 2008, the fair value of these foreign currency forward contracts was a net liability of $9.1 million and is included in other current liabilities. Although not predictive in nature, we believe a hypothetical 10% threshold reflects a reasonably possible near term change in foreign currency rates. Assuming that the December 31, 2008 exchange rates were to change by a hypothetical 10%, the fair value of the foreign currency forward contracts would change by approximately $75.8 million. However, since the contracts either hedge specific forecasted intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies or hedge assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the entities functional currencies, any change in the fair value of the contract would be either reported in other comprehensive income (loss) and reclassified to earnings in the same periods during which the underlying hedged transactions affect earnings or remeasured through earnings each period along with the underlying hedged item. 60 Table of Contents 
 
