Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We note these factors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. You should understand, however, that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the factors that are noted to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Except as required under the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, we disclaim and do not undertake any obligations to update or revise publicly any of our forward looking statements, including forward looking statements in this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions, or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosure we make on related subjects in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q and Current Reports on Form 8 K filed with or furnished to the SEC. 20 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following statements describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. Any of these factors could significantly and negatively affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results or credit ratings, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. The risks described below are not the only risks we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or risks that we currently consider immaterial, could also negatively affect our business, our results and operations. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results which could cause our financial results to be below expectations and cause our stock price to be volatile. We have historically experienced, and may continue to experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, and may result in volatility of our stock price. Future operating results will depend on many factors, including: demand or lack of demand for our products, including demand that adversely affects our ability to optimize the use of our manufacturing facilities; the introduction and pricing of products competitive with ours, including generic competition; developments regarding the safety or efficacy of our products; regulatory approvals for our products and pricing determinations with respect to our products; regulatory approvals for our and our competitors manufacturing facilities; timing and levels of spending for research and development, sales and marketing; timing and levels of reimbursement from third party payers for our products; development or expansion of business infrastructure in new clinical and geographic markets; the acquisition of new products and companies; tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate; timing and recognition of certain research and development milestones and license fees; ability to control our costs; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and economic and market instability. We are dependent on the continued commercial success of our primary products REVLIMID, VIDAZA, THALOMID and ABRAXANE and a significant decline in demand for or use of these products or our other commercially available products could materially and adversely affect our operating results. During the next several years, the growth of our business will be largely dependent on the commercial success of REVLIMID, VIDAZA, THALOMID, and ABRAXANE. We cannot predict whether these or our other existing or new products will be accepted by regulators, physicians, patients and other key opinion leaders as effective drugs with certain advantages over existing or future therapies. We are continuing to introduce our products in additional international markets and to obtain approvals for additional indications both in the United States and internationally. A delay in gaining the requisite regulatory approvals for these markets or indications could negatively impact our growth plans and the value of our stock. Further, if unexpected adverse experiences are reported in connection with the use of our products, physician and patient comfort with the product could be undermined, the commercial success of such products could be adversely affected and the acceptance of our other products could be negatively impacted. We are subject to adverse event reporting regulations that require us to report to the FDA or similar bodies in other countries if our products are associated with a death or serious injury. These adverse events, among others, could result in additional regulatory controls, such as the performance of costly post approval clinical studies or revisions to our approved 21 Table of Contents labeling, which could limit the indications or patient population for our products or could even lead to the withdrawal of a product from the market. Similarly, the occurrence of serious adverse events known or suspected to be related to the products could negatively impact product sales. For example, THALOMID is known to be toxic to the human fetus and exposure to the drug during pregnancy could result in significant deformities in the baby. REVLIMID is also considered fetal toxic and there are warnings against use of VIDAZA in pregnant women as well. While we have restricted distribution systems for both THALOMID and REVLIMID and we endeavor to educate patients regarding the potential known adverse events including pregnancy risks, we cannot ensure that all such warnings and recommendations will be complied with or that adverse events resulting from non compliance will not have a material adverse effect on our business. It is necessary that our primary products achieve and maintain market acceptance as well as our other products including ISTODAX, FOCALIN XR and the RITALIN family of drugs. A number of factors may adversely impact the degree of market acceptance of our products, including the products efficacy, safety and advantages, if any, over competing products, as well as the reimbursement policies of third party payers, such as government and private insurance plans, patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects. If we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval of our products we will be unable to sell our current products and products in development. Changes in law, government regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of operations. The discovery, preclinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing, risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (such as our S.T.E.P.S. and RevAssist programs), marketing and labeling of pharmaceuticals and biologics are all subject to extensive laws and regulations, including, without limitation, the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the U.S. Public Health Service Act, Medicare Modernization Act, Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Sherman Antitrust Act, patent laws, environmental laws, privacy laws and other federal and state statutes, including anti kickback, antitrust and false claims laws, as well as similar laws in foreign jurisdictions. Enforcement of and changes in laws, government regulations or policies can have a significant adverse impact on our ability to continue to commercialize our products or introduce new products to the market, which would adversely affect our results of operations. If we or our agents, contractors or collaborators are delayed in receiving, or are unable to obtain all, necessary governmental approvals, we will be unable to effectively market our products. The testing, marketing and manufacturing of our products requires regulatory approval, including approval from the FDA and, in some cases, from the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, or governmental authorities outside of the United States that perform roles similar to those of the FDA and EPA, including the EMA, EC, the Swissmedic, the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration and Health Canada. Certain of our pharmaceutical products, such as FOCALIN, fall under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970 that requires authorization by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency, or DEA, of the U.S. Department of Justice in order to handle and distribute these products. The regulatory approval process presents a number of risks to us, principally: In general, preclinical tests and clinical trials can take many years, and require the expenditure of substantial resources, and the data obtained from these tests and trials can be susceptible to varying interpretation that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval; Delays or rejections may be encountered during any stage of the regulatory process based upon the failure of the clinical or other data to demonstrate compliance with, or upon the failure of the product to meet, a regulatory agencys requirements for safety, efficacy and quality or, in the case of a product seeking an orphan drug indication, because another designee received approval first or receives approval of other labeled indications; Requirements for approval may become more stringent due to changes in regulatory agency policy, or the adoption of new regulations or legislation; 22 Table of Contents The scope of any regulatory approval, when obtained, may significantly limit the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed and reimbursed and may impose significant limitations in the nature of warnings, precautions and contra indications that could materially affect the sales and profitability of the drug; Approved products, as well as their manufacturers, are subject to continuing and ongoing review, and discovery of previously unknown problems with these products or the failure to adhere to manufacturing or quality control requirements may result in restrictions on their manufacture, sale or use or in their withdrawal from the market; Regulatory authorities and agencies of the United States or foreign governments may promulgate additional regulations restricting the sale of our existing and proposed products, including specifically tailored risk evaluation and mitigation strategies; Guidelines and recommendations published by various governmental and non governmental organizations can reduce the use of our products; Once a product receives marketing approval, we may not market that product for broader or different applications, and the FDA may not grant us approval with respect to separate product applications that represent extensions of our basic technology. In addition, the FDA may withdraw or modify existing approvals in a significant manner or promulgate additional regulations restricting the sale of our present or proposed products. The FDA may also request that we perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our existing or proposed products if we or others identify side effects after our products are on the market; Products, such as REVLIMID, that are subject to accelerated approval can be subject to an expedited withdrawal if the post marketing study commitments are not completed with due diligence, the post marketing restrictions are not adhered to or are shown to be inadequate to assure the safe use of the drug, or evidence demonstrates that the drug is not shown to be safe and effective under its conditions of use. Additionally, promotional materials for such products are subject to enhanced surveillance, including pre approval review of all promotional materials used within 120 days following marketing approval and a requirement for the submissions 30 days prior to initial dissemination of all promotional materials disseminated after 120 days following marketing approval; and Our risk evaluation and mitigation strategies, labeling and promotional activities relating to our products as well as our post marketing activities are regulated by the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission, The United States Department of Justice, the DEA, state regulatory agencies and foreign regulatory agencies and are subject to associated risks. In addition, individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws. If we fail to comply with regulations regarding the promotion and sale of our products, appropriate distribution of our products under our restricted distribution systems, prohibition on off label promotion and the promotion of unapproved products, such agencies may bring enforcement actions against us that could inhibit our commercial capabilities as well as result in significant penalties. Other matters that may be the subject of governmental or regulatory action which could adversely affect our business include: changes in laws and regulations, including without limitation, patent, environmental, privacy, health care and competition laws; importation of prescription drugs from outside the U.S. at prices that are regulated by the governments of various foreign countries; additional restrictions on interactions with healthcare professionals; and privacy restrictions that may limit our ability to share data from foreign jurisdictions. We collect placentas and umbilical cord blood for our unrelated allogeneic and private stem cell banking businesses. The FDAs Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research currently regulates human tissue or cells intended for transplantation, implantation, infusion or transfer to a human recipient under 21 CFR Parts 1270 and 23 Table of Contents 1271. Part 1271 requires cell and tissue establishments to screen and test donors, to prepare and follow written procedures for the prevention of the spread of communicable disease and to register the establishment with FDA. This part also provides for inspection by the FDA of cell and tissue establishments. The FDA recently announced that as of October 21, 2011, a BLA will be required to distribute cord blood for unrelated allogeneic use. Currently, we are required to be, and are, licensed to operate in New York, New Jersey, Maryland and California. If other states adopt similar licensing requirements, we would need to obtain such licenses to continue operating our stem cell banking businesses. If we are delayed in receiving, or are unable to obtain at all, necessary licenses, we will be unable to provide services in those states and this could impact negatively on our revenues. Sales of our products will be significantly reduced if access to and reimbursement for our products by governmental and other third party payers is reduced or terminated. Sales of our products will depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products will be paid by health maintenance, managed care, pharmacy benefit and similar health care management organizations, or reimbursed by government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other third party payers. Generally, in Europe and other countries outside the United States, the government sponsored healthcare system is the primary payer of healthcare costs of patients. These health care management organizations and third party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Additionally, the newly enacted Health Care Reform Act has provided sweeping health care reform, which may impact the prices of drugs. In addition to the newly enacted federal legislation, state legislatures and foreign governments have also shown significant interest in implementing cost containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products. The establishment of limitations on patient access to our drugs, adoption of price controls and cost containment measures in new jurisdictions or programs, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, including the impact of the Health Care Reform Act, could adversely impact our business and future results. If these organizations and third party payers do not consider our products to be cost effective compared to other available therapies, they may not reimburse providers or consumers of our products or, if they do, the level of reimbursement may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. Our ability to sell our products to hospitals in the United States depends in part on our relationships with group purchasing organizations, or GPOs. Many existing and potential customers for our products become members of GPOs. GPOs negotiate pricing arrangements and contracts, sometimes on an exclusive basis, with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a GPOs affiliated hospitals and other members. If we are not one of the providers selected by a GPO, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and if the GPO has negotiated a strict sole source, market share compliance or bundling contract for another manufacturers products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the GPO for the duration of the contractual arrangement. Our failure to renew contracts with GPOs may cause us to lose market share and could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew these contracts at the current or substantially similar terms. If we are unable to keep our relationships and develop new relationships with GPOs, our competitive position may suffer. We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most countries outside the United States. International operations are generally subject to extensive governmental price controls and other market regulations, and we believe the increasing emphasis on cost containment initiatives in Europe and other countries has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of our products. Although we cannot predict the extent to which our business may be affected by future cost containment measures or other potential legislative or regulatory developments, additional foreign price controls or other changes in pricing regulation could restrict the amount that we are able to charge for our current and future products, which could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Our long term success depends, in part, on intellectual property protection. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce patents, protect trade secrets, obtain licenses to technology owned by third parties and to conduct our business without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies, including ours, can be uncertain 24 Table of Contents and involve complex legal and factual questions including those related to our risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (such as our S.T.E.P.S. and RevAssist programs). In addition, the coverage sought in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. Consequently, we do not know whether any of our owned or licensed pending patent applications, which have not already been allowed, will result in the issuance of patents or, if any patents are issued, whether they will be dominated by third party patent rights, whether they will provide significant proprietary protection or commercial advantage or whether they will be circumvented, opposed, invalidated, rendered unenforceable or infringed by others. Further, we are aware of third party U.S. patents that relate to, for example, the use of certain stem cell technologies and cannot be assured as to any impact to our potential products, or guarantee that our patents or pending applications will not be involved in, or be defeated as a result of, opposition proceedings before a foreign patent office or any interference proceedings before the United States Patent Trademark Office, or PTO. With respect to patents and patent applications we have licensed in, there can be no assurance that additional patents will be issued to any of the third parties from whom we have licensed patent rights, or that, if any new patents are issued, such patents will not be opposed, challenged, invalidated, infringed or dominated or provide us with significant proprietary protection or commercial advantage. Moreover, there can be no assurance that any of the existing licensed patents will provide us with proprietary protection or commercial advantage. Nor can we guarantee that these licensed patents will not be either infringed, invalidated or circumvented by others, or that the relevant agreements will not be terminated. Any termination of the licenses granted to us by CMCC could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because 1) patent applications filed in the United States on or before November 28, 2000 are maintained in secrecy until patents issue, 2) patent applications filed in the United States on or after November 29, 2000 are not published until approximately 18 months after their earliest claimed priority date, 3) United States patent applications that are not filed outside the United States may not publish at all until issued, and 4) publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we, or our licensors, were the first to make the inventions covered by each of the issued patents or pending patent applications or that we, or our licensors, were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. In the event a third party has also filed a patent for any of our inventions, we, or our licensors, may have to participate in interference proceedings before the PTO to determine priority of invention, which could result in the loss of a U.S. patent or loss of any opportunity to secure U.S. patent protection for the invention. Even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us, such interference proceedings could result in substantial cost to us. We may in the future have to prove that we are not infringing patents or we may be required to obtain licenses to such patents. However, we do not know whether such licenses will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Prosecution of patent applications and litigation to establish the validity and scope of patents, to assert patent infringement claims against others and to defend against patent infringement claims by others can be expensive and time consuming. There can be no assurance that, in the event that claims of any of our owned or licensed patents are challenged by one or more third parties, any court or patent authority ruling on such challenge will determine that such patent claims are valid and enforceable. An adverse outcome in such litigation could cause us to lose exclusivity relating to the subject matter delineated by such patent claims and may have a material adverse effect on our business. If a third party is found to have rights covering products or processes used by us, we could be forced to cease using the products or processes covered by the disputed rights, be subject to significant liabilities to such third party and or be required to license technologies from such third party. Also, different countries have different procedures for obtaining patents, and patents issued by different countries provide different degrees of protection against the use of a patented invention by others. There can be no assurance, therefore, that the issuance to us in one country of a patent covering an invention will be followed by the issuance in other countries of patents covering the same invention or that any judicial interpretation of the validity, enforceability or scope of the claims in a patent issued in one country will be similar to the judicial interpretation given to a corresponding patent issued in another country. Competitors have chosen and in the future may choose to file oppositions to patent applications, which have been deemed allowable by foreign patent examiners. Furthermore, even if our owned or licensed patents are determined to be valid and enforceable, there can be no assurance that competitors will not be able to design around such patents and compete with us using the resulting alternative technology. Additionally, for these same reasons, we cannot be sure that patents of a broader scope than ours may be issued and thereby create freedom to 25 Table of Contents operate issues. If this occurs we may need to reevaluate pursuing such technology, which is dominated by others patent rights, or alternatively, seek a license to practice our own invention, whether or not patented. We also rely upon unpatented, proprietary and trade secret technology that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborative partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors. There can be no assurance that these agreements provide meaningful protection or that they will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any such breach or that our trade secrets, proprietary know how and technological advances will not otherwise become known to others. In addition, there can be no assurance that, despite precautions taken by us, others have not and will not obtain access to our proprietary technology or that such technology will not be found to be non proprietary or not a trade secret. Our products may face competition from lower cost generic or follow on products and providers of these products may be able to sell them at a substantially lower cost than us. Generic drug manufacturers are seeking to compete with our drugs, and present an important challenge to us. Even if our patent applications, or those we have licensed in, are issued, innovative and generic drug manufacturers and other competitors may challenge the scope, validity or enforceability of such patents in court, requiring us to engage in complex, lengthy and costly litigation. Alternatively, innovative and generic drug manufacturers and other competitors may be able to design around our owned or licensed patents and compete with us using the resulting alternative technology. If any of our issued or licensed patents are infringed or challenged, we may not be successful in enforcing or defending our or our licensors intellectual property rights and subsequently may not be able to develop or market the applicable product exclusively. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for one of our products, or upon the at risk launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our products, we can quickly lose a significant portion of our sales of that product, which can adversely affect our business. In addition, if generic versions of our competitors branded products lose their market exclusivity, our patented products may face increased competition which can adversely affect our business. The FDA approval process allows for the approval of an ANDA or 505(b)(2) application for a generic version of our approved products upon the expiration, through passage of time or successful legal challenge, of relevant patent or non patent exclusivity protection. Generic manufacturers pursuing ANDA approvals are not required to conduct costly and time consuming clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of their products; rather, they are permitted to rely on the innovators data regarding safety and efficacy. Thus, generic manufacturers can sell their products at prices much lower than those charged by the innovative pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies who have incurred substantial expenses associated with the research and development of the drug product. Accordingly, while our products currently may retain certain regulatory and or patent exclusivity, our products are or will be subject to ANDA applications to the FDA in light of the Hatch Waxman Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The ANDA procedure includes provisions allowing generic manufacturers to challenge the effectiveness of the innovators patent protection prior to the generic manufacturer actually commercializing their products the so called Paragraph IV certification procedure. In recent years, generic manufacturers have used Paragraph IV certifications extensively to challenge the applicability of Orange Book listed patents on a wide array of innovative pharmaceuticals, and we expect this trend to continue and to implicate drug products with even relatively modest revenues. During the exclusivity periods, the FDA is generally prevented from granting effective approval of an ANDA. Upon the expiration of the applicable exclusivities, through passage of time or successful legal challenge, the FDA may grant effective approval of an ANDA for a generic drug, or may accept reference to a previously protected NDA in a 505(b)(2) application. Further, upon such expiration event, the FDA may require a generic competitor to participate in some form of risk management system which could include our participation as well. Depending upon the scope of the applicable exclusivities, any such approval could be limited to certain formulations and or indications/claims, i.e., those not covered by any outstanding exclusivities. If an ANDA filer or a generic manufacturer were to receive approval to sell a generic or follow on version of one of our products, that product would become subject to increased competition and our revenues for that product would be adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents We have received a Paragraph IV Certification Letter dated August 30, 2010, advising us that Natco Pharma Limited of Hyderabad, India, or Natco, submitted an ANDA to the FDA. See Part 1, Item 3, Legal Proceedings Revlimid of this report for further discussion. If we are not able to effectively compete our business will be adversely affected. The pharmaceutical and biotech industry in which we operate is highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Our present and potential competitors include major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as specialty pharmaceutical firms, including, but not limited to: Takeda and Johnson Johnson, which compete with REVLIMID and THALOMID in the treatment of multiple myeloma and in clinical trials with our compounds; Eisai Co., Ltd., SuperGen, Inc. and Johnson Johnson, which compete or may potentially compete with VIDAZA, in addition Eisai Co., Ltd. potentially competes with ABRAXANE, and in other oncology products in general; Amgen, which potentially competes with our TNF and kinase inhibitors; AstraZeneca plc, which potentially competes in clinical trials with our compounds and TNF inhibitors; Biogen Idec Inc. and Genzyme Corporation, both of which are generally developing drugs that address the oncology and immunology markets; Bristol Myers Squibb Co., which potentially competes with ABRAXANE, and in clinical trials with our compounds and TNF inhibitors, in addition to other oncology products in general; F. Hoffman La Roche Ltd., which potentially competes in clinical trials with our IMiDs compounds and TNF inhibitors, in addition to other oncology products in general; Johnson Johnson, which potentially competes with certain of our proprietary programs, including our oral anti inflammatory programs; Abbott Laboratories, which potentially competes with our oral anti inflammatory programs; Novartis, which potentially competes with our compounds and kinase programs; Pfizer, which potentially competes in clinical trials with our kinase inhibitors; and Sanofi Aventis, which competes with ABRAXANE, in addition to other oncology products in general. Many of these companies have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. This enables them, among other things, to make greater research and development investments and spread their research and development costs, as well as their marketing and promotion costs, over a broader revenue base. Our competitors may also have more experience and expertise in obtaining marketing approvals from the FDA, and other regulatory authorities. We also experience competition from universities and other research institutions, and in some instances, we compete with others in acquiring technology from these sources. The pharmaceutical industry has undergone, and is expected to continue to undergo, rapid and significant technological change, and we expect competition to intensify as technical advances in the field are made and become more widely known. The development of products, including generics, or processes by our competitors with significant advantages over those that we are seeking to develop could cause the marketability of our products to stagnate or decline. We may be required to modify our business practices, pay fines and significant expenses or experience losses due to litigation or governmental investigations. From time to time, we may be subject to litigation or governmental investigation on a variety of matters, including, without limitation, regulatory, intellectual property, product liability, antitrust, consumer, whistleblower, commercial, securities and employment litigation and claims and other legal proceedings that may arise from the conduct of our business as currently conducted or as conducted in the future. 27 Table of Contents In particular, we are subject to significant product liability risks as a result of the testing of our products in human clinical trials and for products that we sell after regulatory approval. Pharmaceutical companies involved in Hatch Waxman litigation are often subject to follow on lawsuits and governmental investigations, which may be costly and could result in lower priced generic products that are competitive with our products being introduced to the market. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we received a Civil Investigative Demand (CID) from the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, or the FTC. The FTC requested documents and other information relating to requests by generic companies to purchase our patented REVLIMID and THALOMID brand drugs in order to evaluate whether there is reason to believe that we have engaged in unfair methods of competition. In the first quarter of 2010, the State of Connecticut referenced the same issues as those referenced in the 2009 CID and issued a subpoena. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we received a second CID from the FTC relating to this matter. We continue to respond to requests for information. In the first quarter of 2011, we received a letter from the United States Attorney for the Central District of California informing us that we were under investigation relating to our promotion of the drugs THALOMID and REVLIMID regarding off label marketing and improper payments to physicians. We are cooperating with the Unites States Attorney in connection with this investigation. On January 20, 2011, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled that the jurisdiction of the Patented Medicine Prices Review Board, or the PMPRB, extends to sales of drugs to Canadian patients even if the locus of sale is within the United States. This means that our U.S. sales of THALOMID brand drug to Canadian patients under the special access program are subject to PMPRB jurisdiction from and after January 12, 1995. In accordance with the ruling of the Supreme Court of Canada, we have provided to date data regarding these special access program sales to the PMPRB. In light of the approval of THALOMID brand drug for multiple myeloma by Health Canada on August 4, 2010, this drug is now sold through our Canadian entity and is no longer sold to Canadian patients in the United States. The PMPRBs proposed pricing arrangement has not been determined. Depending on the calculation, we may be requested to return certain revenues associated with these sales and to pay fines. Should this occur, we would have to consider various legal options to address whether the pricing determination was reasonable. Litigation and governmental investigations are inherently unpredictable and may: result in rulings that are materially unfavorable to us, including claims for significant damages, fines or penalties, and administrative remedies, such as exclusion and or debarment from government programs, or other rulings that prevent us from operating our business in a certain manner; cause us to change our business operations to avoid perceived risks associated with such litigation or investigations; have an adverse affect on our reputation and the demand for our products; and require the expenditure of significant time and resources, which may divert the attention of our management and interfere with the pursuit of our strategic objectives. While we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. It also is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all potential risks and liabilities. If any litigation or governmental investigation were to have a material adverse result, there could be a material impact on our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. See also Legal Proceedings contained in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The development of new biopharmaceutical products involves a lengthy and complex process, and we may be unable to commercialize any of the products we are currently developing. Many of our drug candidates are in the early or mid stages of research and development and will require the commitment of substantial financial resources, extensive research, development, preclinical testing, clinical trials, manufacturing scale up and regulatory approval prior to being ready for sale. This process involves a high degree of risk and takes many years. Our product development efforts with respect to a product candidate may fail for many 28 Table of Contents reasons, including the failure of the product candidate in preclinical studies; adverse patient reactions to the product candidate or indications or other safety concerns; insufficient clinical trial data to support the effectiveness or superiority of the product candidate; our inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of the product candidate for development or commercialization activities in a timely and cost efficient manner; our failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, the required regulatory approvals for the product candidate, the facilities or the process used to manufacture the product candidate; or changes in the regulatory environment, including pricing and reimbursement, that make development of a new product or of an existing product for a new indication no longer desirable. Moreover, our commercially available products may require additional studies with respect to approved indications as well as new indications pending approval. The stem cell products that we are developing through our CCT subsidiary may represent substantial departures from established treatment methods and will compete with a number of traditional products and therapies which are now, or may be in the future, manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies. Furthermore, public attitudes may be influenced by claims that stem cell therapy is unsafe, and stem cell therapy may not gain the acceptance of the public or the medical community. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in conducting clinical studies, we can give no assurances that our studies will have a positive result or that we will receive regulatory approvals for our new products or new indications. Manufacturing and distribution risks including a disruption at certain of our manufacturing sites would significantly interrupt our production capabilities, which could result in significant product delays and adversely affect our results. We have our own manufacturing facilities for many of our products and we have contracted with third party manufacturers and distributors to provide API, encapsulation, finishing services packaging and distribution services to meet our needs. These risks include the possibility that our or our suppliers manufacturing processes could be partially or completely disrupted by a fire, natural disaster, terrorist attack, governmental action or military action. In the case of a disruption, we may need to establish alternative manufacturing sources for these products. This would likely lead to substantial production delays as we build or locate replacement facilities and seek and obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. If this occurs, and our finished goods inventories are insufficient to meet demand, we may be unable to satisfy customer orders on a timely basis, if at all. Further, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur and we would have to bear the additional cost of any disruption. For these reasons, a significant disruptive event at certain of our manufacturing facilities or sites could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, if we fail to predict market demand for our products, we may be unable to sufficiently increase production capacity to satisfy demand or may incur costs associated with excess inventory that we manufacture. In all the countries where we sell our products, governmental regulations exist to define standards for manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution and storing. All of our suppliers of raw materials, contract manufacturers and distributors must comply with these regulations as applicable. In the United States, the FDA requires that all suppliers of pharmaceutical bulk material and all manufacturers of pharmaceuticals for sale in or from the United States achieve and maintain compliance with the FDAs current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations and guidelines. Our failure to comply, or failure of our third party manufacturers to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on them or us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, disgorgement, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of our products. In addition, before any product batch produced by our manufacturers can be shipped, it must conform to release specifications pre approved by regulators for the content of the pharmaceutical product. If the operations of one or more of our manufacturers were to become unavailable for any reason, any required FDA review and approval of the operations of an alternative supplier could cause a delay in the manufacture of our products. If our outside manufacturers do not meet our requirements for quality, quantity or timeliness, or do not achieve and maintain compliance with all applicable regulations, our ability to continue supplying such products at a level that meets demand could be adversely affected. 29 Table of Contents We have contracted with specialty distributors, to distribute REVLIMID, THALOMID, VIDAZA, ABRAXANE and ISTODAX in the United States. If our distributors fail to perform and we cannot secure a replacement distributor within a reasonable period of time, we may experience adverse effects to our business and results of operations. We are continuing to establish marketing and distribution capabilities in international markets with respect to our products. At the same time, we are in the process of obtaining necessary governmental and regulatory approvals to sell our products in certain countries. If we have not successfully completed and implemented adequate marketing and distribution support services upon our receipt of such approvals, our ability to effectively launch our products in these countries would be severely restricted. The consolidation of drug wholesalers and other wholesaler actions could increase competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. We sell our pharmaceutical products in the United States primarily through wholesale distributors and contracted pharmacies. These wholesale customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the United States. This distribution network is continuing to undergo significant consolidation. As a result, a smaller number of large wholesale distributors and pharmacy chains control a significant share of the market. We expect that consolidation of drug wholesalers and pharmacy chains will increase competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. In addition, wholesalers may apply pricing pressure through fee for service arrangements, and their purchases may exceed customer demand, resulting in reduced wholesaler purchases in later quarters. We cannot assure you that we can manage these pressures or that wholesaler purchases will not decrease as a result of this potential excess buying. Risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents or contractors or collaborators could adversely affect our business or reputation. We cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies and procedures will in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents, contractors or collaborators that would violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including without limitation, employment, foreign corrupt practices, environmental, competition and privacy laws. Such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, monetary and injunctive penalties and could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, results of operations and reputation. The integration of Abraxis and other acquired businesses may present significant challenges to us. We may face significant challenges in effectively integrating entities and businesses that we acquire, such as Abraxis, and we may not realize the benefits anticipated from such acquisitions. Achieving the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of Abraxis will depend in part upon whether we can integrate our businesses in an efficient and effective manner. Our integration of Abraxis involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to: demands on management related to the increase in our size after the acquisition; the diversion of managements attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations; higher integration costs than anticipated; failure to achieve expected synergies and costs savings; difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees; difficulties in the assimilation of different cultures and practices, as well as in the assimilation of broad and geographically dispersed personnel and operations; and difficulties in the integration of departments, systems, including accounting systems, technologies, books and records, and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls, including internal control over financial reporting required by the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and related procedures and policies. 30 Table of Contents If we cannot successfully integrate Abraxis we may experience material negative consequences to our business, financial condition or results of operations. Successful integration of Abraxis will depend on our ability to manage these operations, to realize opportunities for revenue growth presented by offerings and expanded geographic market coverage and, to some degree, to eliminate redundant and excess costs. Because of difficulties in combining geographically distant operations, we may not be able to achieve the benefits that we hope to achieve as a result of the acquisition with Abraxis. Our inability to continue to attract and retain key leadership, managerial, commercial and scientific talent could adversely affect our business. The success of our business depends, in large part, on our continued ability to (i) attract and retain highly qualified management, scientific, manufacturing and commercial personnel, (ii) successfully integrate large numbers of new employees into our corporate culture and (iii) develop and maintain important relationships with leading research and medical institutions and key distributors. Competition for these types of personnel and relationships is intense. Among other benefits, we use share based compensation to attract and retain personnel. Share based compensation accounting rules require us to recognize all share based compensation costs as expenses. These or other factors could reduce the number of shares and options management and our board of directors grants under our incentive plan. We cannot be sure that we will be able to attract or retain skilled personnel or maintain key relationships, or that the costs of retaining such personnel or maintaining such relationships will not materially increase. We could be subject to significant liability as a result of risks associated with using hazardous materials in our business. We use certain hazardous materials in our research, development, manufacturing and general business activities. While we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with the federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use of these materials, we cannot be certain that accidental injury or contamination will not occur. If an accident or environmental discharge occurs, or if we discover contamination caused by prior operations, including by prior owners and operators of properties we acquire, we could be liable for cleanup obligations, damages and fines. This could result in substantial liabilities that could exceed our insurance coverage and financial resources. Additionally, the cost of compliance with environmental and safety laws and regulations may increase in the future, requiring us to expend more financial resources either in compliance or in purchasing supplemental insurance coverage. Changes in our effective income tax rate could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our effective income tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, the accounting for stock options and other share based compensation, changes in tax laws and rates, future levels of research and development spending, changes in accounting standards, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, the outcome of examinations by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other jurisdictions, the accuracy of our estimates for unrecognized tax benefits and realization of deferred tax assets, and changes in overall levels of pre tax earnings. The impact on our income tax provision resulting from the above mentioned factors may be significant and could have an impact on our results of operations. Currency fluctuations and changes in exchange rates could increase our costs and may cause our profitability to decline. We collect and pay a substantial portion of our sales and expenditures in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Therefore, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect our operating results. 31 Table of Contents We utilize foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign currency risk, but not to engage in currency speculation. We use these forward contracts to hedge certain forecasted transactions and balance sheet exposures denominated in foreign currencies. We use derivative instruments, including those not designated as part of a hedging transaction, to manage our exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates. The use of these derivative instruments mitigates the exposure of these risks with the intent to reduce our risk or cost but may not fully offset any change in operating results that result from fluctuations in foreign currencies. Any significant foreign exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may experience an adverse market reaction if we are unable to meet our financial reporting obligations. As we continue to expand at a rapid pace, the development of new and or improved automated systems will remain an ongoing priority. During this expansion period, our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements in our financial reporting. Such misstatements may result in litigation and or negative publicity and possibly cause an adverse market reaction that may negatively impact our growth plans and the value of our common stock. The decline of global economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations. Sales of our products are dependent, in large part, on reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private health insurers, distribution partners and other organizations. As a result of the current global credit and financial market conditions, these organizations may be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations or may delay payment. In addition, U.S. federal and state health authorities may reduce Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements, and private insurers may increase their scrutiny of claims. A reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement could negatively affect our product sales, revenue and cash flows. Due to tightened global credit, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third party contractors, suppliers or collaborators. We rely on third parties for several important aspects of our business, including portions of our product manufacturing, royalty revenue, clinical development of future collaboration products, conduct of clinical trials and raw materials. If such third parties are unable to satisfy their commitments to us, our business could be adversely affected. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly and you may lose some or all of your investment in us. The market for our shares of common stock may be subject to disruptions that could cause volatility in its price. In general, current global economic conditions have caused substantial market volatility and instability. Any such disruptions or continuing volatility may adversely affect the value of our common stock. In addition to current global economic instability in general, the following key factors may have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock: results of our clinical trials or adverse events associated with our marketed products; fluctuations in our commercial and operating results; announcements of technical or product developments by us or our competitors; market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks in particular; stock market conditions generally; changes in governmental regulations and laws, including, without limitation, changes in tax laws, health care legislation, environmental laws, competition laws, and patent laws; new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings; public announcements regarding medical advances in the treatment of the disease states that we are targeting; 32 Table of Contents patent or proprietary rights developments; changes in pricing and third party reimbursement policies for our products; the outcome of litigation involving our products or processes related to production and formulation of those products or uses of those products; other litigation or governmental investigations; competition; and investor reaction to announcements regarding business or product acquisitions. In addition, our operations may be materially affected by conditions in the global markets and economic conditions throughout the world, including the current global economic and market instability. The global market and economic climate may continue to deteriorate because of many factors beyond our control, including continued economic instability and market volatility, sovereign debt issues, rising interest rates or inflation, terrorism or political uncertainty. In the event of a continued or future market downturn in general and or the biotechnology sector in particular, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. In addition to the risks relating to our common stock, CVR holders are subject to additional risks. On October 15, 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Abraxis BioScience, Inc. in connection with our acquisition, contingent value rights or, CVRs, were issued under a CVR agreement entered into by and between us and American Stock Transfer Trust Company, LLC, the trustee. A copy of the CVR agreement was filed on Form 8 A with the SEC on October 15, 2010. Pursuant to the CVR agreement, each holder of a CVR is entitled to receive a pro rata portion, based on the number of CVRs then outstanding, of certain milestone and net sales payments, each of the following cash payments that we are obligated to pay. See Note 2, Acquisitions, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. In addition to the risks relating to our common stock, CVR holders are subject to additional risks, including: an active public market for the CVRs may not develop or the CVRs may trade at low volumes, both of which could have an adverse effect on the resale price, if any, of the CVRs; because a public market for the CVRs has a limited history, the market price and trading volume of the CVRs may be volatile; if the clinical approval milestones specified in the CVR agreement are not achieved for any reason within the time periods specified therein, and if net sales do not exceed the thresholds set forth in the CVR agreement for any reason within the time periods specified therein, no payment will be made under the CVRs and the CVRs will expire valueless; since the U.S. federal income tax treatment of the CVRs is unclear, any part of any CVR payment could be treated as ordinary income and required to be included in income prior to the receipt of the CVR payment; any payments in respect of the CVRs are subordinated to the right of payment of certain indebtedness of ours; we may under certain circumstances redeem the CVRs; and upon expiration of our obligations to use diligent efforts to achieve each of the CVR milestones and to sell ABRAXANE or any of the other Abraxis pipeline products, we may discontinue such efforts, which would have an adverse effect on the value, if any, of the CVRs. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to service our obligations under our recently incurred indebtedness. On October 7, 2010, we issued a total of $1.25 billion principal amount of senior notes, consisting of the 2015 notes, the 2020 notes and the 2040 notes, collectively referred to as the notes. Our ability to pay interest on the notes, to repay the principal amount of the notes when due at maturity, to comply with the covenants of the notes or to 33 Table of Contents repurchase the notes if a change of control occurs will depend upon, among other things, continued commercial success of our products and other factors that affect our future financial and operating performance, including, without limitation, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, and regulatory factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service the debt service requirements under the notes, we may be forced to take actions such as: restructuring or refinancing our debt, including the notes; seeking additional debt or equity capital; reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures; or selling assets. Such measures might not be successful and might not enable us to service our obligations under the notes. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms. A breakdown or breach of our information technology systems could subject us to liability or interrupt the operation of our business. We rely upon our information technology systems and infrastructure for our business. The size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion and random attack. Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees and others who access our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. While we believe that we have taken appropriate security measures to protect our data and information technology systems, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. We have certain charter and by law provisions that may deter a third party from acquiring us and may impede the stockholders ability to remove and replace our management or board of directors. Our board of directors has the authority to issue, at any time, without further stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, and to determine the price, rights, privileges and preferences of those shares. An issuance of preferred stock could discourage a third party from acquiring a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Additionally, our board of directors has adopted certain amendments to our by laws intended to strengthen the boards position in the event of a hostile takeover attempt. These provisions could impede the stockholders ability to remove and replace our management and or board of directors. Furthermore, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti takeover law, which may also dissuade a potential acquirer of our common stock. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Current Reports on Form 8 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q and Annual Reports on Form 10 K are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC, and all such reports and amendments to such reports filed have been and will be made available, free of charge, through our website (http://www.celgene.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such filing. Such reports will remain available on our website for at least 12 months. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The public may read and copy any materials filed by us with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 34 Table of Contents ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our corporate headquarters are located in Summit, New Jersey and our international headquarters are located in Boudry, Switzerland. Summarized below are the locations, primary usage and approximate square footage of the facilities we own worldwide: Approximate Location Primary Useage Square Feet Summit, New Jersey Administration, marketing, research 400,000 Melrose Park, Illinois Manufacturing, warehousing, research 269,000 Phoenix, Arizona Manufacturing and warehousing 247,000 Costa Mesa, California Research 180,000 Elk Grove Village, Illinois Manufacturing and warehousing 150,100 Boudry, Switzerland Administration and manufacturing 148,166 Barceloneta, Puerto Rico Manufacturing 90,000 Oelwein, Iowa Manufacturing 48,500 Zofingen, Switzerland Manufacturing 12,222 We occupy the following facilities, located in the United States, under operating lease arrangements that have remaining lease terms greater than one year. Under these lease arrangements, we also are required to reimburse the lessors for real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, maintenance and other operating costs. All leases are with unaffiliated parties. Approximate Location Primary Useage Square Feet Basking Ridge, New Jersey Office space 180,200 San Diego, California Research 78,200 Warren, New Jersey Office space and research 73,500 Los Angeles, California Office space 60,900 San Francisco, California Office space and research 55,900 Marina Del Rey, California Research 50,700 Durham, North Carolina Clinical trial management 36,000 Somerset, New Jersey Research 35,800 Bridgewater, New Jersey Office space 33,000 Cedar Knolls, New Jersey Office space and stem cell recovery 25,284 Warren, New Jersey Office space 23,500 Overland Park, Kansas Office space 18,500 Auburn, California Research 12,800 Chicago, Illinois Office space 7,400 Grand Island, New York Manufacturing 5,700 We also lease a number of offices under various lease agreements outside of the United States for which the minimum annual rents may be subject to specified annual rent increases. At December 31, 2010, the non cancelable lease terms for our operating leases expire at various dates between 2011 and 2018 and in some cases include renewal options. The total amount of rent expense recorded for all leased facilities in 2010 was $30.1 million. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, commercial and other claims; government investigations; and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. These legal proceedings and other matters are complex in nature and have outcomes that are difficult to predict and could have a material adverse effect on the Company. 35 Table of Contents Patent proceedings include challenges to scope, validity or enforceability of our patents relating to our various products or processes. Although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the drug at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that drug and could materially affect future results of operations. Among the principal matters pending to which we are a party, are the following: REVLIMID We have publicly announced that we have received a notice letter dated August 30, 2010, sent from Natco Pharma Limited of India (Natco) notifying us of a Paragraph IV certification alleging that patents listed for REVLIMID in the Orange Book are invalid, and or not infringed (the Notice Letter). The Notice Letter was sent pursuant to Natco having filed an ANDA seeking permission from the FDA to market a generic version of 25mg, 15mg, 10mg and 5mg capsules of REVLIMID. Under the federal Hatch Waxman Act of 1984, any generic manufacturer may file an ANDA with a certification (a Paragraph IV certification) challenging the validity or infringement of a patent listed in the FDAs Approved Drug Products With Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations (the Orange Book) four years after the pioneer company obtains approval of its New Drug Application, or an NDA. On October 8, 2010, Celgene filed an infringement action in the United States District Court of New Jersey against Natco in response to the Notice Letter with respect to United States Patent Nos. 5,635,517 (the 517 patent), 6,045,501 (the 501 patent), 6,281,230 (the 230 patent), 6,315,720 (the 720 patent), 6,555,554 (the 554 patent), 6,561,976 (the 976 patent), 6,561,977 (the 977 patent), 6,755,784 (the 784 patent), 7,119,106 (the 106 patent), and 7,465,800 (the 800 patent). If Natco is successful in challenging our patents listed in the Orange Book, and the FDA were to approve the ANDA with a comprehensive education and risk management program for a generic version of lenalidomide, sales of REVLIMID could be significantly reduced in the United States by the entrance of a generic lenalidomide product, potentially reducing our revenue. Natco responded to our infringement action on November 18, 2010, with its Answer, Affirmative Defenses and Counterclaims. Natco has alleged (through affirmative defenses and counterclaims) that the patents are invalid, unenforceable and or not infringed by Natcos proposed generic productions. After filing the infringement action, we learned the identity of Natcos U.S. partner, Arrow International Limited, and filed an amended complaint on January 7, 2011, adding Arrow as a defendant. ELAN PHARMA INTERNATIONAL LIMITED On February 23, 2011, the parties entered into a settlement and license agreement for $78.0 million, whereby all claims were resolved and we obtained the rights to certain patents in and related to the litigation including rights to U.S. Reissue Patent REI 41,884 (the Reissued Patent), as well as all foreign counterparts, all of which expire in 2016. Prior to the settlement, on July 19, 2006, Elan Pharmaceutical Intl Ltd. filed a lawsuit against the predecessor entity of Abraxis (Old Abraxis) in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware alleging that Old Abraxis willfully infringed two of its patents by making, using and selling the ABRAXANE brand drug. Elan sought unspecified damages and an injunction. In response, Old Abraxis contended that it did not infringe the Elan patents and that the Elan patents are invalid and unenforceable. Before trial, Elan dropped its claim that Old Abraxis infringed one of the two asserted patents. Elan also dropped its request for an injunction as to the remaining patent. On June 13, 2008, after a trial with respect to the remaining patent, a jury ruled that Old Abraxis had infringed that patent, that Abraxis infringement was not willful, and that the patent was valid and enforceable. The jury awarded Elan $55.2 million in damages for sales of ABRAXANE through the judgment date. For accounting purposes, Abraxis assumed approximately a 6% royalty on all U.S. sales, moving forward from the verdict, of ABRAXANE brand drug, plus interest. The patent expired on January 25, 2011. 36 Table of Contents ABRAXIS SHAREHOLDER LAWSUIT Abraxis, the members of the Abraxis board of directors and Celgene Corporation are named as defendants in putative class action lawsuits brought by Abraxis stockholders challenging the Abraxis acquisition in Los Angeles County Superior Court. The plaintiffs in such actions assert claims for breaches of fiduciary duty arising out of the acquisition and allege that Abraxis directors engaged in self dealing and obtained for themselves personal benefits and failed to provide stockholders with material information relating to the acquisition. The plaintiffs also allege claims for aiding and abetting breaches of fiduciary duty against us and Abraxis. On September 14, 2010, the parties reached an agreement in principle to settle the actions pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding, or the MOU. Without admitting the validity of any allegations made in the actions, or any liability with respect thereto, the defendants elected to settle the actions in order to avoid the cost, disruption and distraction of further litigation. Under the MOU, the defendants agreed, among other things, to make additional disclosures relating to the acquisition, and to provide the plaintiffs counsel with limited discovery to confirm the fairness and adequacy of the settlement. Abraxis, on behalf of itself and for the benefit of the other defendants in the actions, also agreed to pay the plaintiffs counsel $600,000 for their fees and expenses. Plaintiffs agreed to release all claims against us and Abraxis relating to our acquisition of Abraxis, except claims to enforce the settlement or properly perfected claims for appraisal in connection with the acquisition of Abraxis by us. On November 15, 2010, the parties executed and filed a stipulation and settlement with the Court and plaintiffs filed a motion for preliminary approval of the class action settlement. On January 26, 2011, the Court granted plaintiffs motion for preliminary approval of the class action settlement, certified the class for settlement purposes only and approved the form of notice of the settlement of the class action. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS None. 37 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES (a) MARKET INFORMATION Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol CELG. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the intra day high and low prices per share of common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market: High Low 2010 Fourth Quarter $ 63.46 $ 54.24 Third Quarter 59.00 48.02 Second Quarter 64.00 51.21 First Quarter 65.79 54.03 2009 Fourth Quarter $ 57.79 $ 49.74 Third Quarter 58.31 45.27 Second Quarter 48.77 36.90 First Quarter 56.60 39.32 12/05 12/06 12/07 12/08 12/09 12/10 Celgene Corporation $ 100.00 $ 177.56 $ 142.62 $ 170.62 $ 171.85 $ 182.53 SP 500 100.00 113.62 117.63 72.36 89.33 100.84 NASDAQ Composite 100.00 109.52 120.27 71.51 102.89 120.29 NASDAQ Biotechnology 100.00 101.02 105.65 92.31 106.74 122.76 * $100 Invested on 12/31/05 in Stock or Index Including Reinvestment of Dividends, Fiscal Year Ended December 31. 38 Table of Contents (b) HOLDERS The closing sales price per share of common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on February 18, 2011 was $53.47. As of February 8, 2011, there were approximately 337,463 holders of record of our common stock. (c) DIVIDEND POLICY We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. (d) EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION We incorporate information regarding the securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans into this section by reference from the section entitled Equity Compensation Plan Information in the proxy statement for our 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. (e) REPURCHASE OF EQUITY SECURITIES The following table presents the total number of shares purchased during the quarter ended December 31, 2010, the average price paid per share, the number of shares that were purchased as part of a publicly announced repurchase program and the approximate dollar value of shares that still could have been purchased: Maximum Number (or Approximate Total Number of Dollar Value) of Shares (or Units) Shares (or Units) Total Number of Average Purchased as Part of Dollar Increase to that may yet be Shares (or Units) Price Paid per Publicly Announced Share Repurchase Purchased Under the Period Purchased Share (or Unit) Plans or Programs Program Plans or Programs October 1 October 31 $ $ 186,492,850 November 1 November 30 $ $ 186,492,850 December 1 December 31 1,392,803 $ 56.77 1,392,803 500,000,000 $ 607,423,220 In April 2009, our Board of Directors approved a $500.0 million common share repurchase program and, on December 15, 2010, authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $500.0 million common shares, extending the repurchase period to December 2012. Approved amounts exclude share repurchase transactions fees. As of December 31, 2010 an aggregate 7,561,228 common shares were repurchased under the program at an average price of $51.92 per common share and total cost of $392.6 million. On February 16, 2011, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $1.0 billion of our common shares during a repurchase period ending in December 2012. This authorization is in addition to the $500.0 million authorization made on December 15, 2010 and the $500.0 million authorization made in April 2009. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following Selected Consolidated Financial Data should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes thereto, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and other financial information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The data set forth below with respect to our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 and the Consolidated Balance Sheet data as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 are derived from our Consolidated Financial Statements which are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K and are qualified by reference to such Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto. The data set forth below with respect to our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 and the Consolidated Balance Sheet data as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 are derived from our Consolidated Financial Statements, which are not included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 In thousands, except per share data Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Total revenue $ 3,625,745 $ 2,689,893 $ 2,254,781 $ 1,405,820 $ 898,873 Costs and operating expenses 2,636,110 1,848,367 3,718,999 980,699 724,182 Operating income (loss) 989,635 841,526 (1,464,218 ) 425,121 174,691 Interest and investment income, net 44,757 76,785 84,835 109,813 40,352 Equity in losses of affiliated companies 1,928 1,103 9,727 4,488 8,233 Interest expense 12,634 1,966 4,437 11,127 9,417 Other income (expense), net (7,220 ) 60,461 24,722 (2,350 ) 5,502 Income (loss) before tax 1,012,610 975,703 (1,368,825 ) 516,969 202,895 Income tax provision 132,418 198,956 164,828 290,536 133,914 Net income (loss) $ 880,192 $ 776,747 $ (1,533,653 ) $ 226,433 $ 68,981 Less: Net loss attributable to non controlling interests 320 Net income (loss) attributable to Celgene $ 880,512 $ 776,747 $ (1,533,653 ) $ 226,433 $ 68,981 Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Net income (loss) per share attributable to Celgene: Basic $ 1.90 $ 1.69 $ (3.46 ) $ 0.59 $ 0.20 Diluted $ 1.88 $ 1.66 $ (3.46 ) $ 0.54 $ 0.18 Weighted average shares: Basic 462,298 459,304 442,620 383,225 352,217 Diluted 469,517 467,354 442,620 431,858 407,181 40 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Consolidated Balance Sheets Data: Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 2,601,301 $ 2,996,752 $ 2,222,091 $ 2,738,918 $ 1,982,220 Total assets 10,177,162 5,389,311 4,445,270 3,611,284 2,735,791 Long term debt, net of discount 1,247,584 Convertible notes 196,555 399,889 Retained earnings (accumulated deficit) 248,266 (632,246 ) (1,408,993 ) 124,660 (101,773 ) Total equity 5,995,472 4,394,606 3,491,328 2,843,944 1,976,177 Subsequent to our issuance of a press release on January 27, 2011 reporting our financial results for the year ended December 31, 2010, adjustments were made to the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2010, resulting in a decrease in net income attributable to Celgene in the amount of $4.0 million and a reduction of $0.01 in basic net income per share attributable to Celgene for the year ended December 31, 2010. There was no change to the reported diluted net income per share attributable to Celgene for the year ended December 31, 2010. 41 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Executive Summary Celgene Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively we, our or us) is a global integrated biopharmaceutical company primarily engaged in the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative therapies designed to treat cancer and immune inflammatory related diseases. Our primary commercial stage products include REVLIMID, VIDAZA, THALOMID (inclusive of Thalidomide Celgene and Thalidomide Pharmion), ABRAXANE and ISTODAX. REVLIMID is an oral immunomodulatory drug primarily marketed in the United States and select international markets, in combination with dexamethasone, for treatment of patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior therapy and for the treatment of transfusion dependent anemia due to low or intermediate 1 risk myelodysplastic syndromes, or MDS, associated with a deletion 5q cytogenetic abnormality with or without additional cytogenetic abnormalities. VIDAZA, which is licensed from Pfizer, is a pyrimidine nucleoside analog that has been shown to reverse the effects of DNA hypermethylation and promote subsequent gene re expression. VIDAZA is a Category 1 recommended treatment for patients with intermediate 2 and high risk MDS according to the National Comprehensive Cancer Network, or NCCN and is marketed in the United States for the treatment of all subtypes of MDS. VIDAZA has been granted orphan drug designation for the treatment of MDS through May 2011. In Europe, VIDAZA is marketed for the treatment of certain qualified adult patients and has been granted orphan drug designation for the treatment of MDS and acute myeloid leukemia, or AML. THALOMID is marketed for patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma and for the acute treatment of the cutaneous manifestations of moderate to severe erythema nodosum leprosum, or ENL, an inflammatory complication of leprosy and as maintenance therapy for prevention and suppression of the cutaneous manifestation of ENL recurrence. ABRAXANE, which was obtained in the 2010 acquisition of Abraxis BioScience Inc., or Abraxis, is a nanoparticle, albumin bound paclitaxel that was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, in January 2005 for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. ABRAXANE is based on a tumor targeting platform known as nab technology. ISTODAX, which was obtained in the 2010 acquisition of Gloucester Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Gloucester, was approved by the FDA for the treatment of cutaneous T cell lymphoma, or CTCL, in patients who have received at least one prior systemic therapy. ISTODAX has received both orphan drug designation for the treatment of non Hodgkins T cell lymphomas, which includes CTCL and peripheral T cell lymphoma, or PTCL, and fast track status in PTCL from the FDA. The European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products, or EMA, has granted orphan status designation for ISTODAX for the treatment of both CTCL and PTCL. We also sell FOCALIN, which is approved for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, or ADHD, exclusively to Novartis Pharma AG, or Novartis. Additional sources of revenue include a licensing agreement with Novartis, which entitles us to royalties on FOCALIN XR and the entire RITALIN family of drugs, residual payments from GlaxoSmithKline, or GSK, based upon GSKs ALKERAN revenues through the end of March 2011, sale of services through our Cellular Therapeutics subsidiary and other miscellaneous licensing agreements. We continue to invest substantially in research and development, and the drug candidates in our pipeline are at various stages of preclinical and clinical development. These candidates include our IMiDs compounds, which are a class of compounds proprietary to us and having certain immunomodulatory and other biologically important properties, our leading oral anti inflammatory agents and cell products and, after the acquisition of Abraxis, our nanoparticle, albumin bound compounds. We believe that continued acceptance of our primary commercial stage products, participation in research and development collaboration arrangements, depth of our product pipeline, regulatory approvals of both new products and expanded use of existing products provide the catalysts for future growth. 42 Table of Contents The following table summarizes total revenue and earnings for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: % Change 2010 2009 Years Ended December 31, Versus Versus 2010 2009 2008 2009 2008 (In thousands $, except earnings per share) Total revenue $ 3,625,745 $ 2,689,893 $ 2,254,781 34.8 % 19.3 % Net income (loss) attributable to Celgene $ 880,512 $ 776,747 $ (1,533,653 ) 13.4 % N/A Diluted earnings (loss) per share attributable to Celgene $ 1.88 $ 1.66 $ (3.46 ) 13.3 % N/A Total revenue increased by $935.9 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to the continued growth of REVLIMID and VIDAZA in both U.S. and international markets, in addition to sales of Gloucester and Abraxis products subsequent to their acquisition dates. Net income and diluted earnings per share for 2010 reflects the higher level of revenue, partly offset by increased spending for new product launches, research and development activities, expansion of our international operations and additional costs related to the acquisitions of Gloucester and Abraxis. Net income for 2010 also included an $86.7 million increase in upfront payments related to research and development collaboration arrangements compared to 2009. Acquisition of Abraxis BioScience, Inc.: On October 15, 2010, or the acquisition date, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Abraxis. The transaction, referred to as the Merger, resulted in Abraxis becoming our wholly owned subsidiary. The results of operations for Abraxis are included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition and the assets and liabilities of Abraxis have been recorded at their respective fair values on the acquisition date and consolidated with ours. Abraxis contributed net revenues of $88.5 million and losses of $43.0 million, after consideration of non controlling interest, for the period from the acquisition date through December 31, 2010. Prior to the Merger, Abraxis was a fully integrated global biotechnology company dedicated to the discovery, development and delivery of next generation therapeutics and core technologies that offer patients treatments for cancer and other critical illnesses. Abraxis portfolio includes an oncology compound, ABRAXANE, which is based on Abraxis proprietary tumor targeting platform known as nab technology. ABRAXANE, the first FDA approved product to use the nab technology, was launched in 2005 for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. Abraxis has continued to expand the nab technology through a clinical program and a product pipeline containing a number of nab technology products in development. The acquisition of Abraxis accelerates our strategy to become a global leader in oncology by the addition of ABRAXANE and the nab technology to our portfolio. Acquisition of Gloucester Pharmaceuticals, Inc.: On January 15, 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock and stock options of Gloucester. The results of operations for Gloucester are included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition and the assets and liabilities of Gloucester have been recorded at their respective fair values on the acquisition date and consolidated with ours. Gloucester contributed net revenues of $15.8 million and losses of $50.3 million. Prior to the acquisition, Gloucester was a privately held biopharmaceutical company that acquired clinical stage oncology drug candidates with the goal of advancing them through regulatory approval and commercialization. We acquired Gloucester to enhance our portfolio of therapies for patients with life threatening illnesses worldwide. Debt Issuance: On October 7, 2010, we issued a total of $1.25 billion principal amount of senior notes consisting of $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.45% Senior Notes due 2015, or the 2015 notes, $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.95% Senior Notes due 2020, or the 2020 notes, and $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.7% Senior Notes due 2040, or the 2040 notes, and, together with the 2015 notes and the 2020 notes, referred to herein as the notes. The notes were issued at 99.854%, 99.745% and 99.813% of par, respectively, and the discount is amortized as additional interest expense over the period from issuance through maturity. Offering costs of approximately $10.3 million have been recorded as debt issuance costs on our consolidated balance sheet and are amortized as additional interest expense using the effective interest rate method over the period from issuance through maturity. Interest on the notes is payable semi annually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 each year beginning April 15, 2011 and the principal on each note is due in full at their 43 Table of Contents respective maturity dates. The notes may be redeemed at our option, in whole or in part, at any time at a redemption price defined in a make whole clause equaling accrued and unpaid interest plus the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of interest and principal. If we experience a change of control accompanied by a downgrade of the debt to below investment grade, we will be required to offer to repurchase the notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. We are subject to covenants which limit our ability to pledge properties as security under borrowing arrangements and limit our ability to perform sale and leaseback transactions involving our property. Results of Operations: Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 Total Revenue: Total revenue and related percentages for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: % Change 2010 2009 versus versus 2010 2009 2008 2009 2008 (In thousands $) Net product sales: REVLIMID $ 2,469,183 $ 1,706,437 $ 1,324,671 44.7 % 28.8 % VIDAZA 534,302 387,219 206,692 38.0 % 87.3 % THALOMID 389,605 436,906 504,713 (10.8 )% (13.4 )% ABRAXANE 71,429 N/A N/A ISTODAX 15,781 N/A N/A ALKERAN 20,111 81,734 (100.0 )% (75.4 )% Other 28,138 16,681 19,868 68.7 % (16.0 )% Total net product sales $ 3,508,438 $ 2,567,354 $ 2,137,678 36.7 % 20.1 % Collaborative agreements and other revenue 10,540 13,743 14,945 (23.3 )% (8.0 )% Royalty revenue 106,767 108,796 102,158 (1.9 )% 6.5 % Total revenue $ 3,625,745 $ 2,689,893 $ 2,254,781 34.8 % 19.3 % Total revenue increased by $935.9 million, or 34.8%, to $3.626 billion in 2010 compared to 2009, reflecting increases of $456.4 million, or 26.3%, in the United States, and $479.5 million, or 50.1% in international markets. The $435.1 million, or 19.3%, increase in 2009 compared to 2008, included increases of $150.3 million, or 9.5%, in the United States and $284.8 million, or 42.3%, in international markets. Net Product Sales: Total net product sales for 2010 increased by $941.1 million, or 36.7%, to $3.508 billion compared to 2009. The increase was comprised of net volume increases of $892.5 million, price decreases of $2.1 million and the favorable impact from foreign exchange of $50.7 million. The decrease in prices was primarily due to increased Medicaid rebates resulting from the Health Care Reform Act and an increase in rebates to U.S. and international governments resulting from their attempts to reduce health care costs. Total net product sales for 2009 increased by $429.7 million, or 20.1%, to $2.567 billion compared to 2008. The increase was comprised of net volume increases of $428.0 million and price increases of $61.5 million, partly offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $59.8 million. REVLIMID net sales increased by $762.7 million, or 44.7%, to $2.469 billion in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to increased unit sales in both U.S. and international markets. Increased market penetration and the increase in treatment duration of patients using REVLIMID in multiple myeloma contributed to U.S. growth. The 44 Table of Contents growth in international markets reflects the expansion of our commercial activities in over 65 countries in addition to product reimbursement approvals and the launch of REVLIMID in Japan in the latter part of 2010. Net sales of REVLIMID increased by $381.8 million, or 28.8%, to $1.706 billion in 2009 compared to 2008. The increase was primarily due to increased unit sales in both U.S. and international markets, reflecting increases in market penetration and duration of therapy in the United States, in addition to the expansion of our commercial activities in international markets. VIDAZA net sales increased by $147.1 million, or 38.0%, to $534.3 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to increased sales in international markets resulting from the completion of product launches in key European regions during the latter part of 2009 and the increase in treatment duration of patients using VIDAZA. Net sales of VIDAZA increased by $180.5 million, or 87.3%, to $387.2 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to the December 2008 full marketing authorization granted by the European Commission, or E.C., for the treatment of adult patients who are not eligible for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation with Intermediate 2 and high risk MDS according to the International Prognostic System Score, or IPSS, or chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, or CMML, with 10 29 percent marrow blasts without myeloproliferative disorder, or AML with 20 30 percent blasts and multi lineage dysplasia, according to World Health Organization, or WHO, classification of VIDAZA. In addition, sales for 2008 only included VIDAZA sales subsequent to the March 7, 2008 acquisition of Pharmion. THALOMID net sales decreased by $47.3 million, or 10.8%, to $389.6 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to lower unit volumes in the United States resulting from the increased use of REVLIMID. Net sales of THALOMID decreased by $67.8 million, or 13.4%, to $436.9 million in 2009 compared to 2008. The decrease was primarily due to lower unit volumes in the United States resulting from the increased use of REVLIMID, partially offset by higher pricing and volume increases in international markets. ABRAXANE was obtained in the acquisition of Abraxis in October 2010 and was approved by the FDA in January 2005 in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. ISTODAX was obtained in the acquisition of Gloucester in January 2010 and was approved in November 2009 by the FDA for the treatment of CTCL in patients who have received at least one prior systemic therapy. ISTODAX was launched in the first quarter of 2010. ALKERAN net sales decreased by $61.6 million, or 75.4%, to $20.1 million in 2009 compared to 2008. This product was licensed from GSK and sold under our label through March 31, 2009, the conclusion date of the ALKERAN license with GSK. The other net product sales category for 2010 includes sales of FOCALIN and former Pharmion and Abraxis products to be divested. The other net product sales category for 2009 includes sales of FOCALIN and former Pharmion products to be divested. Gross to Net Sales Accruals: We record gross to net sales accruals for sales returns and allowances, sales discounts, government rebates, and chargebacks and distributor service fees. REVLIMID is distributed in the United States primarily through contracted pharmacies under the RevAssist program, which is a proprietary risk management distribution program tailored specifically to help ensure the safe and appropriate distribution and use of REVLIMID. Internationally, REVLIMID is distributed under mandatory risk management distribution programs tailored to meet local competent authorities specifications to help ensure the products safe and appropriate distribution and use. These programs may vary by country and, depending upon the country and the design of the risk management program, the product may be sold through hospitals or retail pharmacies. THALOMID is distributed in the United States under our System for Thalidomide Education and Prescribing Safety, or S.T.E.P.S., program which we developed and is a proprietary comprehensive education and risk management distribution program with the objective of providing for the safe and appropriate distribution and use of THALOMID. Internationally, THALOMID is distributed under mandatory risk management distribution programs tailored to meet local competent authorities specifications to help ensure the safe and appropriate distribution and use of THALOMID. These programs may vary by country and, depending upon the country and 45 Table of Contents the design of the risk management program, the product may be sold through hospitals or retail pharmacies. VIDAZA and ABRAXANE are distributed through the more traditional pharmaceutical industry supply chain and are not subject to the same risk management distribution programs as THALOMID and REVLIMID. We base our sales returns allowance on estimated on hand retail/hospital inventories, measured end customer demand as reported by third party sources, actual returns history and other factors, such as the trend experience for lots where product is still being returned or inventory centralization and rationalization initiatives conducted by major pharmacy chains, as applicable. If the historical data we use to calculate these estimates do not properly reflect future returns, then a change in the allowance would be made in the period in which such a determination is made and revenues in that period could be materially affected. Under this methodology, we track actual returns by individual production lots. Returns on closed lots, that is, lots no longer eligible for return credits, are analyzed to determine historical returns experience. Returns on open lots, that is, lots still eligible for return credits, are monitored and compared with historical return trend rates. Any changes from the historical trend rates are considered in determining the current sales return allowance. REVLIMID is distributed primarily through hospitals and contracted pharmacies, lending itself to tighter controls of inventory quantities within the supply channel and, thus, resulting in lower returns activity to date. THALOMID is drop shipped directly to the prescribing pharmacy and, as a result, wholesalers do not stock the product. Sales discount accruals are based on payment terms extended to customers. Government rebate accruals are based on estimated payments due to governmental agencies for purchases made by third parties under various governmental programs. U.S. Medicaid rebate accruals are generally based on historical payment data and estimates of future Medicaid beneficiary utilization applied to the Medicaid unit rebate formula established by the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services. Full year 2010 revenues were negatively impacted by the U.S. Health Care Reform Act which increased the Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1% and extended that rebate to Medicaid Managed Care Organizations. We utilized historical patient data to estimate the incremental costs related to the Medicaid Managed Care Organizations. In addition, certain international markets have government sponsored programs that require rebates to be paid based on program specific rules and, accordingly, the rebate accruals are determined primarily on estimated eligible sales. Rebates or administrative fees are offered to certain wholesale customers, GPOs and end user customers, consistent with pharmaceutical industry practices. Settlement of rebates and fees may generally occur from one to 15 months from date of sale. We provide a provision for rebates at the time of sale based on the contracted rates and historical redemption rates. Assumptions used to establish the provision include level of wholesaler inventories, contract sales volumes and average contract pricing. We regularly review the information related to these estimates and adjust the provision accordingly. Chargeback accruals are based on the differentials between product acquisition prices paid by wholesalers and lower government contract pricing paid by eligible customers covered under federally qualified programs. Distributor service fee accruals are based on contractual fees to be paid to the wholesale distributor for services provided. TRICARE is a health care program of the U.S. Department of Defense Military Health System that provides civilian health benefits for military personnel, military retirees and their dependents. TRICARE rebate accruals are based on estimated Department of Defense eligible sales multiplied by the TRICARE rebate formula. See Critical Accounting Estimates and Significant Accounting Policies for further discussion of gross to net sales accruals. 46 Table of Contents Gross to net sales accruals and the balance in the related allowance accounts for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Returns Chargebacks and Government and Distributor Allowances Discounts Rebates Service Fees Total In thousands $ Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 16,734 $ 2,895 $ 9,202 $ 8,839 $ 37,670 Pharmion balance at March 7, 2008 926 283 1,266 2,037 4,512 Allowances for sales during 2008 20,624 36,024 35,456 100,258 192,362 Credits/deductions issued for prior year sales (17,066 ) (2,428 ) (7,951 ) (4,127 ) (31,572 ) Credits/deductions issued for sales during 2008 (3,419 ) (33,115 ) (27,163 ) (83,621 ) (147,318 ) Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 17,799 $ 3,659 $ 10,810 $ 23,386 $ 55,654 Allowances for sales during 2009 14,742 37,315 48,082 88,807 188,946 Credits/deductions issued for prior year sales (13,168 ) (2,306 ) (11,042 ) (10,333 ) (36,849 ) Credits/deductions issued for sales during 2009 (12,013 ) (35,070 ) (29,739 ) (72,619 ) (149,441 ) Balance at December 31, 2009 $ 7,360 $ 3,598 $ 18,111 $ 29,241 $ 58,310 Abraxis balance at October 15, 2010 815 4,336 7,253 12,404 Allowances for sales during 2010 6,440 52,975 117,788 123,625 300,828 Credits/deductions issued for prior year sales (5,764 ) (3,304 ) (14,437 ) (15,882 ) (39,387 ) Credits/deductions issued for sales during 2010 (4,072 ) (44,997 ) (40,834 ) (96,870 ) (186,773 ) Balance at December 31, 2010 $ 4,779 $ 8,272 $ 84,964 $ 47,367 $ 145,382 2010 compared to 2009: Returns and allowances decreased by $8.3 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to reduced U.S. provisions resulting from decreased revenue from products with higher return rates. Discounts increased by $15.7 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to revenue increases in the United States and international markets, both of which offer different discount programs, and expansion into new international markets. Government rebates increased by $69.7 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to an approximate $28.4 million increase in Medicaid rebates resulting from the Health Care Reform Act, $40.6 million from reimbursement rate increases in certain international markets and approvals in new markets and the inclusion of ABRAXANE sales subsequent to the October 2010 acquisition of Abraxis. Chargebacks and distributor service fees increased by $34.8 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to a $17.7 million increase in chargebacks resulting from both an increase in sales, including the addition of ABRAXANE, and an increase in certain chargeback rates, which are closely aligned with Medicaid rebate rates. Other increases included $5.6 million from TRICARE due to increased utilization in the current year, distributor service fees of $6.5 million and $2.3 million resulting from the Health Care Reform Act. 2009 compared to 2008: Returns and allowances decreased by $5.9 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to the completion of an inventory centralization and rationalization initiative conducted by a major pharmacy chain during 2009, decreased revenue from products with a higher return rate history in 2009 compared to 2008 and a decrease in ALKERAN returns due to the March 31, 2009 conclusion of the ALKERAN license with GSK. In addition, 2008 includes an increase in THALOMID returns resulting from the anticipated increase in the use of REVLIMID in multiple myeloma. 47 Table of Contents Discounts increased by $1.3 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to revenue increases in the United States and international markets, both of which offer different discount programs. Government rebates increased by $12.6 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to increased sales levels of REVLIMID and VIDAZA in the United States and international markets, as well as reimbursement approvals in new markets. Chargebacks and distributor service fees decreased by $11.5 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to reduced revenue from products with a higher chargeback history in 2009 compared to 2008 and a decrease in ALKERAN chargebacks, partially offset by an increase in international distributor service fees due to certain programs commenced in 2009. Collaborative Agreements and Other Revenue: Revenues from collaborative agreements and other sources decreased by $3.2 million to $10.5 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The decrease was primarily due to receipt of a $5.0 million milestone payment in 2009 which was not duplicated in 2010, partly offset by an increase in licensing fees and the inclusion of Abraxis other revenues subsequent to the October 2010 acquisition date. Revenues from collaborative agreements and other sources decreased by $1.2 million to $13.7 million in 2009 compared to 2008. The decrease was primarily due to the elimination of license fees and amortization of deferred revenues related to Pharmion subsequent to the March 7, 2008 acquisition and was partly offset by an increase in milestone payments received in 2009. Royalty Revenue: Royalty revenue decreased by $2.0 million to $106.8 million in 2010 compared to 2009. A $5.9 million decrease in residual payments earned by us based upon GSKs ALKERAN revenues subsequent to the conclusion of the ALKERAN license with GSK was partly offset by a net $3.9 million increase in royalties earned from Novartis based upon its FOCALIN XR and RITALIN sales. Royalty revenue increased by $6.6 million to $108.8 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to the 2009 inclusion of $9.0 million in residual ALKERAN payments earned by us based upon GSKs ALKERAN revenues subsequent to the conclusion of the ALKERAN license with GSK. Royalty revenue related to Novartis sales of RITALIN decreased by $2.1 million from 2008. Cost of Goods Sold (excluding amortization of acquired intangible assets): Cost of goods sold and related percentages for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 In thousands $ Cost of goods sold (excluding amortization of acquired intangible assets) $ 306,521 $ 216,289 $ 258,267 Increase (decrease) from prior year $ 90,232 $ (41,978 ) $ 128,056 Percent increase (decrease) from prior year 41.7 % (16.3 )% 98.3 % Percent of net product sales 8.7 % 8.4 % 12.1 % Cost of goods sold (excluding amortization of acquired intangible assets) increased by $90.2 million to $306.5 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase was primarily due to the inclusion of a $34.7 million inventory step up amortization adjustment related to sales of ABRAXANE subsequent to the October 15, 2010 acquisition date of Abraxis, in addition to increased sales of REVLIMID and VIDAZA, partly offset by the elimination of higher cost ALKERAN sales, resulting from the March 31, 2009 conclusion of the GSK license agreement. As a percent of net product sales, cost of goods sold (excluding amortization of acquired intangible assets) increased to 8.7% in the 2010 compared to 8.4% in 2009 primarily due to the inventory step up amortization for ABRAXANE. Excluding the step up adjustment, the cost of goods sold ratio for 2010 was 7.7%. Cost of goods sold (excluding amortization of acquired intangible assets) decreased by $42.0 million to $216.3 million in 2009 compared to 2008 partly due to the March 31, 2009 conclusion date of the ALKERAN license with GSK, reducing cost of goods sold by approximately $39.0 million compared to 2008. In addition, costs related to THALOMID decreased as a result of lower unit volumes. Finally, 2008 included a $24.6 million inventory step up adjustment related to the March 7, 2008 acquisition of Pharmion compared to an adjustment of $0.4 million included in 2009. The impact of these reductions was partly offset by higher costs related to increased 48 Table of Contents unit volumes for REVLIMID and VIDAZA. As a percent of net product sales, cost of goods sold (excluding amortization of acquired intangible assets) decreased to 8.4% in 2009 from 12.1% in 2008 primarily due to lower ALKERAN sales, which carried a higher cost to sales ratio relative to our other products, and the decrease in the inventory step up adjustment. Research and Development: Research and development expenses and related percentages for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 In thousands $ Research and development $ 1,128,495 $ 794,848 $ 931,218 Increase (decrease) from prior year $ 333,647 $ (136,370 ) $ 530,762 Percent increase (decrease) from prior year 42.0 % (14.6 )% 132.5 % Percent of total revenue 31.1 % 29.5 % 41.3 % Research and development expenses increased by $333.6 million to $1.128 billion in 2010 compared to 2009, partly due to an increase of $86.7 million in upfront payments related to research and development collaboration arrangements. A $121.2 million upfront payment was made to Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Agios, in 2010, compared to a combined $34.5 million in payments made to GlobeImmune, Inc., or GlobeImmune, and Array BioPharma, Inc., or Array, in 2009. In addition, 2010 included $65.6 million in expenses related to Abraxis and Gloucester subsequent to their acquisition dates, an increase of approximately $55.0 million in salary and benefits related to an increase in employees, an increase of approximately $50.0 million in research and development project spending and increases in spending in support of multiple programs across a broad range of diseases. Research and development expenses decreased by $136.4 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to a $303.1 million charge included in 2008 for a royalty obligation payment to Pfizer that related to the yet to be approved forms of VIDAZA partly offset by 2009 spending increases related to drug discovery and clinical research and development in support of multiple programs across a broad range of diseases. Included in 2009 were upfront payments of $30.0 million and $4.5 million to GlobeImmune and Array, respectively, related to research and development collaboration agreements. Included in 2008 was an upfront payment of $45.0 million made to Acceleron Pharma, Inc. related to a research and development collaboration agreement. The following table provides a breakdown of research and development expenses: 2010 2009 Increase In thousands $ Human pharmaceutical clinical programs $ 480,491 $ 371,189 $ 109,302 Other pharmaceutical programs(1) 505,518 323,702 181,816 Drug discovery and development 120,362 85,208 35,154 Placental stem cell 22,124 14,749 7,375 Total $ 1,128,495 $ 794,848 $ 333,647 (1) Other pharmaceutical programs include spending for toxicology, analytical research and development, quality and regulatory affairs and upfront payments for research and development collaboration arrangements. Research and development expenditures support multiple ongoing clinical proprietary development programs for REVLIMID and other IMiDs compounds; VIDAZA; ABRAXANE in melanoma, non small cell lung and pancreatic cancers; ABI compounds, which are targeted nanoparticle, albumin bound compounds for treatment of solid tumor cancers; amrubicin, our lead compound for small cell lung cancer; apremilast (CC 10004), our lead anti inflammatory compound that inhibits multiple proinflammatory mediators and which is currently being evaluated in Phase III clinical trials for the treatment of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis; pomalidomide, which is currently being evaluated in Phase I, II and III clinical trials; CC 11050, for which Phase II clinical trials are planned; our kinase inhibitor programs; as well as our cell therapy programs. 49 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative: Selling, general and administrative expenses and related percentages for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 In thousands $ Selling, general and administrative $ 950,634 $ 753,827 $ 685,547 Increase from prior year $ 196,807 $ 68,280 $ 244,585 Percent increase from prior year 26.1 % 10.0 % 55.5 % Percent of total revenue 26.2 % 28.0 % 30.4 % Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $196.8 million to $950.6 million in 2010 compared to 2009, partly due to the inclusion of $50.0 million in expenses related to former Abraxis and Gloucester subsequent to their acquisition dates, a $19.1 million increase in facilities costs and a $11.7 million increase in donations to non profit foundations. The remaining increase includes higher marketing and sales related expenses, resulting from ongoing product launch activities of VIDAZA in Europe and ISTODAX in the United States, in addition to the continued expansion of our international commercial activities and an increase in facilities costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $68.3 million to $753.8 million in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily reflecting increases in marketing and sales related expenses of $75.1 million, which were partly offset by a $6.7 million reduction in bad debt expense and other customer account charges. Marketing and sales related expenses in 2009 included product launch activities for REVLIMID, VIDAZA and THALOMID in Europe, Canada and Australia, in addition to VIDAZA relaunch expenses in the United States upon receipt of an expanded FDA approval to reflect new overall survival data. The increase in expense also reflects the continued expansion of our international commercial activities. Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets: Amortization of acquired intangible assets is summarized below for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: 2010 2009 2008 In thousands $ Abraxis acquisition $ 21,648 $ $ Gloucester acquisition 21,833 Pharmion acquisition 159,750 83,403 102,331 Penn T acquisition 1,636 Total amortization $ 203,231 $ 83,403 $ 103,967 Increase (decrease) from prior year $ 119,828 $ (20,564 ) $ 94,897 Amortization of acquired intangible assets increased by $119.8 million to $203.2 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to $95.8 million of incremental expense associated with an acceleration of amortization beginning in 2010 related to the VIDAZA intangible resulting from the acquisition of Pharmion. The revised monthly amortization reflects an updated sales forecast related to VIDAZA. An increase in amortization expense due to the initiation of amortization related to the Abraxis and Gloucester acquired intangibles was partly offset by a reduction in expense associated with certain developed product rights obtained in the Pharmion acquisition becoming fully amortized during 2009. Amortization of acquired intangible assets decreased by $20.6 million to $83.4 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to several intangible assets obtained in the Pharmion acquisition in March 2008 becoming fully amortized during the fourth quarter of 2008 and third quarter of 2009. Acquisition Related Charges and Restructuring, net: Acquisition related charges and restructuring, net was $47.2 million in 2010 and included $22.7 million in accretion of the contingent consideration related to the acquisition of Gloucester in January 2010 and $24.5 million in net costs related to the acquisition of Abraxis in October 2010. In addition to acquisition related fees of $21.4 million, the costs related to Abraxis included restructuring costs of $16.1 million, partly offset by a $13.0 favorable adjustment to the fair value of our liability related to publicly traded contingent value rights, or CVRs, that were issued as part of the acquisition of Abraxis. The restructuring costs are primarily severance related and are expected to be incurred in both 2011 and 2012. 50 Table of Contents Interest and Investment Income, Net: Interest and investment income, net is summarized below for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: 2010 2009 2008 In thousands $ Interest and investment income, net $ 44,757 $ 76,785 $ 84,835 Decrease from prior year $ (32,028 ) $ (8,050 ) $ (24,978 ) Percentage decrease from prior year (41.7 )% (9.5 )% (22.7 )% Interest and investment income, net decreased by $32.0 million to $44.8 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The decrease was primarily due to a $19.6 million net reduction in gains on sales of marketable securities in 2010 compared to 2009 and a $13.6 million reduction in interest income due to lower overall yields and the liquidation of securities to fund the Abraxis acquisition. Interest and investment income decreased by $8.1 million to $76.8 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to reduced yields on invested balances, partly offset by higher invested balances. Equity in Losses of Affiliated Companies: Under the equity method of accounting, we recorded losses of $1.9 million, $1.1 million and $9.7 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The loss for 2010 included $1.3 million in losses from former Abraxis equity method investments. The loss for 2008 included impairment losses of $6.0 million which were based on an evaluation of several factors, including an other than temporary decrease in fair value of an equity method investment below our cost. Interest Expense: Interest expense was $12.6 million, $2.0 million and $4.4 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The $10.6 million increase in 2010 compared to 2009 was due to the interest accrued on the $1.25 billion in senior notes issued in October 2010. Other income, net: Other income, net is summarized below for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: 2010 2009 2008 In thousands $ Other income (expense), net $ (7,220 ) $ 60,461 $ 24,722 Increase (decrease) in income from prior year $ (67,681 ) $ 35,739 $ 27,072 Other income, net decreased by $67.7 million in 2010 to a net expense of $7.2 million compared to an income of $60.5 million in 2009 primarily due to a reduction in net gains on foreign currency forward contracts that had not been designated as hedges entered into in order to offset net foreign exchange gains and losses. Other income increased by $35.7 million to $60.5 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to transaction exchange gains and net gains on foreign currency forward contracts that had not been designated as hedges. In addition, 2008 included an impairment loss of $4.1 million. Income Tax Provision: The income tax provision decreased by $66.5 million to $132.4 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The 2010 effective tax rate of 13.1% reflects the impact from our low tax Swiss manufacturing operations, our overall global mix of income, and tax deductions related to our acquisitions. The income tax provision in 2010 includes the favorable impact of a shift in earnings between the U.S. and lower tax foreign jurisdictions. The income tax provision in 2010 also includes certain discrete items including a tax benefit of $12.5 million related to the settlement of a tax examination, a tax benefit of $5.4 million which was primarily the result of filing our 2009 income tax returns with certain items being more favorable than originally estimated, and a tax benefit of $19.8 million for the reduction in a valuation allowance related to certain tax carryforwards, partially offset by an increase in unrecognized tax benefits related to certain ongoing income tax audits. The income tax provision increased by $34.2 million to $199.0 million in 2009 compared to 2008. The 2009 effective tax rate of 20.4% reflected the impact from our low tax Swiss manufacturing operations and our overall global mix of income. The income tax provision in 2009 included the favorable impact of a shift in earnings between the U.S. and lower tax foreign jurisdictions. The income tax provision in 2009 also included a $17.0 million net tax benefit which was primarily the result of filing our 2008 income tax returns with certain items being more 51 Table of Contents favorable than originally estimated, the reduction in a valuation allowance related to capital loss carryforwards, and the settlement of tax examinations, partially offset by an increase in unrecognized tax benefits related to certain ongoing income tax audits. Net income (loss): Net income (loss) and per common share amounts for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 In thousands $, except per share amounts Net income (loss) attributable to Celgene $ 880,512 $ 776,747 $ (1,533,653 ) Per common share amounts: Basic $ 1.90 $ 1.69 $ (3.46 ) Diluted(1) $ 1.88 $ 1.66 $ (3.46 ) Weighted average shares: Basic 462,298 459,304 442,620 Diluted 469,517 467,354 442,620 (1) In computing diluted earnings per share for 2008, no adjustment to the numerator or denominator was made due to the anti dilutive effect of any potential common stock as a result of our net loss. As of their maturity date, June 1, 2008, substantially all of our convertible notes were converted into shares of common stock. Net income for 2010 reflect the earnings impact from higher sales of REVLIMID and VIDAZA. The favorable impact of higher revenues was partly offset by increased spending for new product launches, research and development activities, expansion of our international operations and the additional costs and intangible amortization related to acquisitions. Net income for 2009 reflects the earnings impact from higher sales of REVLIMID and VIDAZA, which was partly due to sales increases in the United States and our continued expansion into new international markets and the granting of full marketing authorization by the European Commission, or E.C., of VIDAZA for specified treatment of adult patients. The earnings generated from increased sales were partly offset by increased spending on research and development, the costs related to new product launches and our ongoing expansion of international operations. The net loss for 2008 included $1.74 billion in IPRD charges related to our acquisition of Pharmion and a $303.1 million charge for the October 2008 royalty obligation payment to Pfizer related to unapproved forms of VIDAZA. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Increase (Decrease) 2010 2009 versus versus 2010 2009 2008 2009 2008 In thousands $ Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,181,556 $ 909,855 $ 182,187 $ 271,701 $ 727,668 Net cash used in investing activities $ (2,107,305 ) $ (856,078 ) $ (522,246 ) $ (1,251,227 ) $ (333,832 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 1,177,167 $ (61,872 ) $ 281,629 $ 1,239,039 $ (343,501 ) Operating Activities: Net cash provided by operating activities in 2010 increased by $271.7 million to $1,181.6 million as compared to 2009. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily attributable to an expansion of our operations and related increase in net earnings, partially offset by the increase in accounts receivable associated with expanding international sales, which take longer to collect and the timing of receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business. 52 Table of Contents Investing Activities: Net cash used in investing activities in 2010 increased by $1.251 billion to $2.107 billion as compared to a net cash use of $856.1 million in 2009. The 2010 investing activities are principally related to proceeds from the sales of marketable securities that were sold in preparation for the purchase of Abraxis and net cash used in the acquisition of Abraxis of $2.315 billion and the acquisition of Gloucester of $337.6 million. Net sales of marketable securities available for sale amounted to $659.7 million in 2010 compared to net purchases of $749.3 million in 2009. Financing Activities: Net cash provided by financing activities in 2010 was $1.177 billion compared to a net cash usage of $61.9 million in 2009. The $1.239 billion increase in net cash provided by financing activities in 2010 was primarily attributable to proceeds from the issuance of long term debt in 2010 that provided net cash of $1.237 billion. Cash, Cash Equivalents, Marketable Securities Available for Sale and Working Capital: Cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities available for sale and working capital for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: 2010 2010 2009 Increase In thousands $ Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities available for sale $ 2,601,301 $ 2,996,752 $ (395,451 ) Working capital(1) $ 2,835,427 $ 3,302,109 $ (466,682 ) (1) Includes cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities available for sale, accounts receivable, net of allowances, inventory and other current assets, less accounts payable, accrued expenses, income taxes payable and other current liabilities. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities Available for Sale: We invest our excess cash primarily in money market funds, U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. government sponsored agency securities, U.S. government sponsored agency mortgage backed securities, non U.S. government, agency and Supranational securities and global corporate debt securities. All liquid investments with maturities of three months or less from the date of purchase are classified as cash equivalents and all investments with maturities of greater than three months from the date of purchase are classified as marketable securities available for sale. We determine the appropriate classification of our investments in marketable debt and equity securities at the time of purchase. The $395.5 million decrease in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities available for sale at the end of 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the $2.315 billion net cash payment made for the Abraxis acquisition, $337.6 million net cash payment made for the Gloucester acquisition, $121.2 million upfront payment made to Agios related to a research and development collaboration arrangement and $183.1 million cash paid out under our share repurchase program announced in April 2009, partly offset by $1.237 billion in net proceeds from our debt issuance in October 2010 and cash generated from operations. Accounts Receivable, Net: Accounts receivable, net increased by $267.8 million to $706.4 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to increased U.S. and international sales of REVLIMID and VIDAZA among existing customers as well as new customers in countries we have recently entered and the inclusion of $52.7 million in accounts receivable related to our acquisition of Abraxis in October 2010. Days of sales outstanding at the end of 2010 increased to 59 days compared to 56 days in 2009. The increase in days of sales outstanding was primarily due to increased international sales in countries where payment terms are typically greater than 60 days, thereby extending collection periods beyond those in the United States. We expect this trend to continue as our international sales continue to expand. Inventory: Inventory balances increased by $159.4 million to $260.1 million at the end of 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to the inclusion of $136.7 million in ABRAXANE inventory, which included a $90.3 million inventory step up adjustment to fair value resulting from the acquisition of Abraxis in October 2010. Other Current Assets: Other current assets increased by $16.1 million to $275.0 million at the end of 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to increases in prepaid value added taxes, income taxes and an increase in the fair 53 Table of Contents value of foreign currency forward contracts, partly offset by a decrease in prepaid royalties related to VIDAZA sales and interest receivable on short term investments. Accounts Payable, Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities: Accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $550.0 million to $996.0 million at the end of 2010 compared to 2009. The increase was primarily due to the $171.9 million current portion of the contingent consideration related to the acquisition of Gloucester, increases in governmental rebates and Medicaid reimbursements, increased value added taxes, increased royalties and payroll related and other accruals. Income Taxes Payable (Current and Non Current): Income taxes payable increased by $94.1 million to $563.3 million at the end of 2010 compared to 2009 primarily from the current provision for income taxes of $236.3 million, mostly offset by tax payments of $122.0 million and a tax benefit of stock options of $32.5 million. We expect continued growth in our expenditures, particularly those related to research and development, clinical trials, commercialization of new products, international expansion and capital investments. However, we anticipate that existing cash and cash equivalent balances and marketable securities available for sale combined with cash generated from future net product sales, will provide sufficient capital resources to fund our normal operations for the foreseeable future. Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010: Payment Due By Period Less Than More than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years 5 Years Total In thousands $ Senior notes $ $ $ 500,000 $ 750,000 $ 1,250,000 Operating leases 36,679 42,398 29,117 28,953 137,147 Manufacturing facility note payable 4,388 8,563 8,563 4,281 25,795 Other contract commitments 164,216 116,215 59,577 31,151 371,159 Total $ 205,283 $ 167,176 $ 597,257 $ 814,385 $ 1,784,101 Senior Notes: On October 7, 2010, we issued a total of $1.25 billion principal amount of senior notes consisting of $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.45% Senior Notes due 2015 (the 2015 notes), $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.95% Senior Notes due 2020 (the 2020 notes) and $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.7% Senior Notes due 2040 (the 2040 notes and, together with the 2015 notes and the 2020 notes, referred to herein as the notes). The notes were issued at 99.854%, 99.745% and 99.813% of par, respectively, and the discount will be amortized as additional interest expense over the period from issuance through maturity. Offering costs of approximately $10.3 million have been recorded as debt issuance costs on our consolidated balance sheet and are amortized as additional interest expense using the effective interest rate method over the period from issuance through maturity. Operating leases: We lease office and research facilities under various operating lease agreements in the United States and various international markets. The non cancelable lease terms for the operating leases expire at various dates between 2010 and 2018 and include renewal options. In general, we are also required to reimburse the lessors for real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, maintenance and other operating costs associated with the leases. For more information on the major facilities that we occupy under lease arrangements refer to Part I, Item 2, Properties of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Manufacturing Facility Note Payable: In December 2006, we purchased an API manufacturing facility and certain other assets and liabilities from Siegfried Ltd. and Siegfried Dienste AG (together referred to herein as Siegfried) located in Zofingen, Switzerland. At December 31, 2010, the fair value of our note payable to Siegfried approximated the carrying value of the note of $25.0 million. 54 Table of Contents Other Contract Commitments: Other contract commitments include $362.5 million in contractual obligations related to product supply contracts. In addition, we have committed to invest $20.0 million in an investment fund over a ten year period, which is callable at any time. On December 31, 2010, our remaining investment commitment was $8.0 million. For more information refer to Note 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Collaboration Arrangements: Potential milestone payments total approximately $3.8 billion, including approximately $2.3 billion contingent on the achievement of various research, development and regulatory approval milestones and approximately $1.5 billion in sales based milestones. We have entered into certain research and development collaboration agreements, as identified in Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, with third parties that include the funding of certain development, manufacturing and commercialization efforts with the potential for future milestone and royalty payments upon the achievement of pre established developmental, regulatory and or commercial targets. Our obligation to fund these efforts is contingent upon continued involvement in the programs and or the lack of any adverse events which could cause the discontinuance of the programs. Due to the nature of these arrangements, the future potential payments are inherently uncertain, and accordingly no amounts have been recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2010 and 2009 contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. New Accounting Principles New Accounting Pronouncements: In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Accounting Standard Update, or ASU, No. 2009 13, Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, or ASU 2009 13, which amends existing revenue recognition accounting pronouncements that are currently within the scope of FASB Accounting Standards Codificationtm, or ASC, 605. This guidance eliminates the requirement to establish the fair value of undelivered products and services and instead provides for separate revenue recognition based upon managements estimate of the selling price for an undelivered item when there is no other means to determine the fair value of that undelivered item. ASU 2009 13 is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. We are currently evaluating the impact, if any, that the adoption of this amendment will have on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010 06, Improving Disclosures About Fair Value Measurements, or ASU 2010 06, which amends ASC 820 to add new requirements for disclosures about transfers into and out of Levels 1 and 2 and separate disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements relating to Level 3 measurements. ASU 2010 06 also clarifies existing fair value disclosures about the level of disaggregation and about inputs and valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Further, ASU 2010 06 amends guidance on employers disclosures about postretirement benefit plan assets under ASC 715 to require that disclosures be provided by classes of assets instead of by major categories of assets. ASU 2010 06 was effective for the first reporting period (including interim periods) beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the requirement to provide the Level 3 activity of purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a gross basis, which will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010, and for interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The section of the amendment pertaining to transfers into and out of Levels 1 and 2 was effective for us beginning January 1, 2010. The adoption of this section of the amendment did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements. The section of the amendment pertaining to Level 3 measurements will be effective for us beginning January 1, 2011. We are currently evaluating the impact, if any, that the adoption of this amendment will have on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010 17, Milestone Method of Revenue Recognition, or ASU 2010 17, to (1) limit the scope of this ASU to research or development arrangements and (2) require that guidance in this ASU be met for an entity to apply the milestone method (record the milestone payment in its entirety in the period received). However, the FASB clarified that, even if the requirements in ASU 2010 17 are met, entities would not be precluded from making an accounting policy election to apply another appropriate accounting policy that results in the deferral of some portion of the arrangement consideration. The guidance in ASU 2010 17 will apply to milestones in both single deliverable and multiple deliverable arrangements involving research or 55 Table of Contents development transactions. ASU 2010 17 will be effective for fiscal years (and interim periods within those fiscal years) beginning on or after June 15, 2010. Early application is permitted. Entities can apply this guidance prospectively to milestones achieved after adoption. However, retrospective application to all prior periods is also permitted. The adoption of this accounting standard will not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010 27, Fees Paid to the Federal Government by Pharmaceutical Manufacturers, or ASU 2010 27. ASU 2010 27 provides guidance concerning the recognition and classification of the new annual fee payable by branded prescription drug manufactures and importers on branded prescription drugs which was mandated under the U.S. Health Care Reform Act enacted in the United States in March 2010. Under this new accounting standard, the annual fee would be presented as a component of operating expenses and recognized over the calendar year. Such fees are payable using a straight line method of allocation unless another method better allocates the fee over the calendar year. This ASU is effective for calendar years beginning on or after December 31, 2010. As this standard relates only to classification, the adoption of this accounting standard will not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010 29, Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information, or ASU 2010 29. ASU 2010 29 clarifies disclosure requirements to require public entities that enter into business combinations that are material on an individual or aggregate basis to disclose pro forma information for business combinations that occurred in the current reporting period, including pro forma revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the acquisition date had been as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period only. ASU 2010 29 is effective for material business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after January 1, 2011 and early adoption is permitted. We have chosen early adoption of ASU 2010 29 and the pro forma information related to our acquisitions of Abraxis and Gloucester complies with the provisions of this standard (See Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K). Critical Accounting Estimates and Significant Accounting Policies A critical accounting policy is one that is both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operation and requires managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. While our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report, we believe the following accounting estimates and policies to be critical: Revenue Recognition: Revenue from the sale of products is recognized when title and risk of loss of the product is transferred to the customer. Provisions for discounts, early payments, rebates, sales returns and distributor chargebacks under terms customary in the industry are provided for in the same period the related sales are recorded. We record estimated reductions to revenue for volume based discounts and rebates at the time of the initial sale. The estimated reductions to revenue for such volume based discounts and rebates are based on the sales terms, historical experience and trend analysis. We recognize revenue from royalties based on licensees sales of our products or products using our technologies. Royalties are recognized as earned in accordance with the contract terms when royalties from licensees can be reasonably estimated and collectibility is reasonably assured. If royalties cannot be reasonably estimated or collectibility of a royalty amount is not reasonably assured, royalties are recognized as revenue when the cash is received. Gross to Net Sales Accruals: We record gross to net sales accruals for sales returns and allowances, sales discounts, government rebates, and chargebacks and distributor service fees. REVLIMID is distributed in the United States primarily through contracted pharmacies under the RevAssist program, which is a proprietary risk management distribution program tailored specifically to help ensure the safe and appropriate distribution and use of REVLIMID. Internationally, REVLIMID is distributed under mandatory risk management distribution programs tailored to meet local competent authorities specifications to help ensure the products safe and appropriate distribution and use. These programs may vary by country and, depending upon the country and the design of the risk management program, the product may be sold through hospitals or retail 56 Table of Contents pharmacies. THALOMID is distributed in the United States under our S.T.E.P.S. program which we developed and is a proprietary comprehensive education and risk management distribution program with the objective of providing for the safe and appropriate distribution and use of THALOMID. Internationally, THALOMID is distributed under mandatory risk management distribution programs tailored to meet local competent authorities specifications to help ensure the safe and appropriate distribution and use of THALOMID. These programs may vary by country and, depending upon the country and the design of the risk management program, the product may be sold through hospitals or retail pharmacies. VIDAZA and ABRAXANE are distributed through the more traditional pharmaceutical industry supply chain and are not subject to the same risk management distribution programs as THALOMID and REVLIMID. We base our sales returns allowance on estimated on hand retail/hospital inventories, measured end customer demand as reported by third party sources, actual returns history and other factors, such as the trend experience for lots where product is still being returned or inventory centralization and rationalization initiatives conducted by major pharmacy chains, as applicable. If the historical data we use to calculate these estimates do not properly reflect future returns, then a change in the allowance would be made in the period in which such a determination is made and revenues in that period could be materially affected. Under this methodology, we track actual returns by individual production lots. Returns on closed lots, that is, lots no longer eligible for return credits, are analyzed to determine historical returns experience. Returns on open lots, that is, lots still eligible for return credits, are monitored and compared with historical return trend rates. Any changes from the historical trend rates are considered in determining the current sales return allowance. REVLIMID is distributed primarily through hospitals and contracted pharmacies, lending itself to tighter controls of inventory quantities within the supply channel and, thus, resulting in lower returns activity to date. THALOMID is drop shipped directly to the prescribing pharmacy and, as a result, wholesalers do not stock the product. Sales discount accruals are based on payment terms extended to customers. Government rebate accruals are based on estimated payments due to governmental agencies for purchases made by third parties under various governmental programs. U.S. Medicaid rebate accruals are generally based on historical payment data and estimates of future Medicaid beneficiary utilization applied to the Medicaid unit rebate formula established by the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services. Full year 2010 revenues were negatively impacted by the U.S. Health Care Reform Act which increased the Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1% and extended that rebate to Medicaid Managed Care Organizations. We utilized historical patient data to estimate the incremental costs related to the Medicaid Managed Care Organizations. In addition, certain international markets have government sponsored programs that require rebates to be paid based on program specific rules and, accordingly, the rebate accruals are determined primarily on estimated eligible sales. Rebates or administrative fees are offered to certain wholesale customers, GPOs and end user customers, consistent with pharmaceutical industry practices. Settlement of rebates and fees may generally occur from one to 15 months from date of sale. We provide a provision for rebates at the time of sale based on the contracted rates and historical redemption rates. Upon receipt of chargeback, due to the availability of product and customer specific information on these programs, we then establish a specific provision for fees or rebates based on the specific terms of each agreement. Chargeback accruals are based on the differentials between product acquisition prices paid by wholesalers and lower government contract pricing paid by eligible customers covered under federally qualified programs. Distributor service fee accruals are based on contractual fees to be paid to the wholesale distributor for services provided. TRICARE is a health care program of the U.S. Department of Defense Military Health System that provides civilian health benefits for military personnel, military retirees and their dependents. TRICARE rebate accruals are based on estimated Department of Defense eligible sales multiplied by the TRICARE rebate formula. Income Taxes: We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for years in which the temporary differences are expected to reverse. We provide a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets will not be realized. 57 Table of Contents We account for interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions as part of our provision for income taxes. These unrecognized tax benefits relate primarily to issues common among multinational corporations in our industry. We apply a variety of methodologies in making these estimates which include studies performed by independent economists, advice from industry and subject experts, evaluation of public actions taken by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities, as well as our own industry experience. We provide estimates for unrecognized tax benefits. If our estimates are not representative of actual outcomes, our results of operations could be materially impacted. We periodically evaluate the likelihood of the realization of deferred tax assets, and reduce the carrying amount of these deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience by taxing jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income, carryforward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, various income tax strategies and other relevant factors. Significant judgment is required in making this assessment and, to the extent future expectations change, we would have to assess the recoverability of our deferred tax assets at that time. At December 31, 2010, it was more likely than not that we would realize our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances. Share Based Compensation: The cost of share based compensation is recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations based on the fair value of all awards granted, using the Black Scholes method of valuation. The fair value of each award is determined and the compensation cost is recognized over the service period required to obtain full vesting. Compensation cost to be recognized reflects an estimate of the number of awards expected to vest after taking into consideration an estimate of award forfeitures based on actual experience. Other Than Temporary Impairments of Available For Sale Marketable Securities: A decline in the market value of any available for sale marketable security below its cost that is deemed to be other than temporary results in a reduction in carrying amount to fair value. The impairment is charged to operations and a new cost basis for the security established. The determination of whether an available for sale marketable security is other than temporarily impaired requires significant judgment and requires consideration of available quantitative and qualitative evidence in evaluating the potential impairment. Factors evaluated to determine whether the investment is other than temporarily impaired include: significant deterioration in the issuers earnings performance, credit rating, asset quality, business prospects of the issuer, adverse changes in the general market conditions in which the issuer operates, length of time that the fair value has been below our cost, our expected future cash flows from the security, our intent not to sell and an evaluation as to whether it is more likely than not that we will not have to sell before recovery of our cost basis. Assumptions associated with these factors are subject to future market and economic conditions, which could differ from our assessment. Derivatives and Hedging Activities: All derivative instruments are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recorded each period in current earnings or other comprehensive income (loss), depending on whether a derivative instrument is designated as part of a hedging transaction and, if it is, the type of hedging transaction. For a derivative to qualify as a hedge at inception and throughout the hedged period, we formally document the nature and relationships between the hedging instruments and hedged item. We assess, both at inception and on an on going basis, whether the derivative instruments that are used in cash flow hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting the changes in cash flows of hedged items. We assess hedge effectiveness on a quarterly basis and record the gain or loss related to the ineffective portion of derivative instruments, if any, to current earnings. If we determine that a forecasted transaction is no longer probable of occurring, we discontinue hedge accounting and any related unrealized gain or loss on the derivative instrument is recognized in current earnings. We use derivative instruments, including those not designated as part of a hedging transaction, to manage our exposure to movements in foreign exchange and interest rates. The use of these derivative instruments modifies the exposure of these risks with the intent to reduce our risk or cost. We do not use derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes and are not a party to leveraged derivatives. Investment in Affiliated Companies: We apply the equity method of accounting to our investment in common stock of an affiliated company and certain investment funds, which primarily invest in companies conducting business in life sciences such as biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, medical technology, medical devices, diagnostics and health and wellness. 58 Table of Contents Equity investments are reviewed on a regular basis for possible impairment. If an investments fair value is determined to be less than its net carrying value and the decline is determined to be other than temporary, the investment is written down to its fair value. Such an evaluation is judgmental and dependent on specific facts and circumstances. Factors considered in determining whether an other than temporary decline in value has occurred include: market value or exit price of the investment based on either market quoted prices or future rounds of financing by the investee; length of time that the market value was below its cost basis; financial condition and business prospects of the investee; our intent and ability to retain the investment for a sufficient period of time to allow for recovery in market value of the investment; issues that raise concerns about the investees ability to continue as a going concern; and any other information that we may be aware of related to the investment. Accounting for Long Term Incentive Plans: We have established a Long Term Incentive Plan, or LTIP, designed to provide key officers and executives with performance based incentive opportunities contingent upon achievement of pre established corporate performance objectives covering a three year period. We currently have three three year performance cycles running concurrently ending December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013. Performance measures for each LTIP are based on the following components in the last year of the three year cycle: 25% on non GAAP earnings per share, 25% on non GAAP net income and 50% on total non GAAP revenue, as defined. Payouts may be in the range of 0% to 200% of the participants salary for the plans. Awards are payable in cash or, at our discretion, in our common stock based upon our stock price at the payout date. We accrue the long term incentive liability over each three year cycle. Prior to the end of a three year cycle, the accrual is based on an estimate of our level of achievement during the cycle. Upon a change in control, participants will be entitled to an immediate payment equal to their target award, or an award based on actual performance, if higher, through the date of the change in control. Accruals recorded for the LTIP entail making certain assumptions concerning future non GAAP earnings per share, non GAAP net income and non GAAP revenues, as defined; the actual results of which could be materially different than the assumptions used. Accruals for the LTIP are reviewed on a regular basis and revised accordingly so that the liability recorded reflects updated estimates of future payouts. In estimating the accruals, management considers actual results to date for the performance period, expected results for the remainder of the performance period, operating trends, product development, pricing and competition. Valuation of Goodwill, Acquired Intangible Assets and IPRD: We have recorded goodwill, acquired intangible assets and IPRD primarily through the acquisitions of Pharmion, Gloucester and Abraxis. When identifiable intangible assets, including in process research and development, are acquired, we determine the fair values of these assets as of the acquisition date. Discounted cash flow models are typically used in these valuations if quoted market prices are not available, and the models require the use of significant estimates and assumptions including but not limited to: projecting regulatory approvals, estimating future cash flows from product sales resulting from completed products and in process projects and developing appropriate discount rates and probability rates Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over fair value of net assets acquired in a business combination accounted for by the acquisition method of accounting and is not amortized, but subject to impairment testing at least annually or when a triggering event occurs that could indicate a potential impairment. We test our goodwill annually for impairment each November 30. We are organized as a single reporting unit and therefore the goodwill impairment test is done using our overall market value, as determined by our traded share price, as compared to our book value of net assets. Intangible assets with definite useful lives are amortized to their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment if certain events occur. Intangible assets related to IPRD product rights are treated as indefinite lived intangible assets and not amortized until the product is approved for sale by regulatory authorities in specified markets. At that time, we will determine the useful life of the asset, reclassify the asset out of 59 Table of Contents IPRD and begin amortization. Impairment testing is also performed at least annually or when a triggering event occurs that could indicate a potential impairment. Our IPRD product rights were obtained in the Gloucester and Abraxis acquisitions. The Gloucester related product rights will become definite lived intangibles when marketing approval is received for ISTODAX for treatment of PTCL in the United States and the European Union. The Abraxis related product rights will become definite lived intangibles when marketing approval is received for ABRAXANE for treatment of either NSCLC, pancreatic cancer or melanoma in a major market, typically either the United States or the European Union, or in a series of other countries, subject to certain specified conditions and management judgment. Valuation of Contingent Consideration Resulting from a Business Combination: We record contingent consideration resulting from a business combination at its fair value on the acquisition date, and for each subsequent reporting period revalue these obligations and record increases or decreases in their fair value as an adjustment to operating earnings in the consolidated statements of operations. Changes to contingent consideration obligations can result from movements in publicly traded share prices of CVRs, adjustments to discount rates and periods, updates in the assumed achievement or timing of any development milestones or changes in the probability of certain clinical events and changes in the assumed probability associated with regulatory approval. The assumptions related to determining the value of a contingent consideration include a significant amount of judgment and any changes in the assumptions could have a material impact on the amount of contingent consideration expense recorded in any given period. Our contingent consideration liabilities were acquired in the acquisitions of Gloucester and Abraxis. The fair value of the Gloucester contingent consideration liability is based on the discount rates, probabilities and estimated timing of two cash milestone payments to the former Gloucester shareholders. The fair value of the Abraxis contingent consideration liability is based on the quoted market price of the publicly traded CVRs. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The following discussion provides forward looking quantitative and qualitative information about our potential exposure to market risk. Market risk represents the potential loss arising from adverse changes in the value of financial instruments. The risk of loss is assessed based on the likelihood of adverse changes in fair values, cash flows or future earnings. We have established guidelines relative to the diversification and maturities of investments to maintain safety and liquidity. These guidelines are reviewed periodically and may be modified depending on market conditions. Although investments may be subject to credit risk, our investment policy specifies credit quality standards for our investments and limits the amount of credit exposure from any single issue, issuer or type of investment. At December 31, 2010, our market risk sensitive instruments consisted of marketable securities available for sale, our long term debt, our note payable and certain foreign currency forward contracts. Marketable Securities Available for Sale: At December 31, 2010, our marketable securities available for sale consisted of U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. government sponsored agency securities, U.S. government sponsored agency mortgage backed securities, non U.S. government, agency and Supranational securities, global corporate debt securities and marketable equity securities. U.S. government sponsored agency securities include general unsecured obligations either issued directly by or guaranteed by U.S. Government Sponsored Enterprises. U.S. government sponsored agency MBS include mortgage backed securities issued by the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Government National Mortgage Association. Non U.S. government, agency and Supranational securities, consist of direct obligations of highly rated governments of nations other than the United States, obligations of sponsored agencies and other entities that are guaranteed or supported by highly rated governments of nations other than the United States. Corporate debt global includes obligations issued by investment grade corporations including some issues that have been guaranteed by governments and government agencies. Marketable securities available for sale are carried at fair value, held for an unspecified period of time and are intended for use in meeting our ongoing liquidity needs. Unrealized gains and losses on available for sale securities, which are deemed to be temporary, are reported as a separate component of stockholders equity, 60 Table of Contents net of tax. The cost of debt securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. The amortization, along with realized gains and losses and other than temporary impairment charges, is included in interest and investment income, net. As of December 31, 2010, the principal amounts, fair values and related weighted average interest rates of our investments in debt securities classified as marketable securities available for sale were as follows: Duration Less than More than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years 5 Years Total In thousands $ Principal amount $ 435,227 $ 742,537 $ 38,994 $ 12,401 $ 1,229,159 Fair value $ 438,813 $ 755,827 $ 38,490 $ 12,774 $ 1,245,904 Average interest rate 0.5 % 1.0 % 3.7 % 2.6 % 0.9 % Long Term Debt: On October 7, 2010, we issued a total of $1.25 billion principal amount of senior notes consisting of $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.45% Senior Notes due 2015, $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.95% Senior Notes due 2020 and $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.7% Senior Notes due 2040. The notes were issued at 99.854%, 99.745% and 99.813% of par, respectively, and the discount amortized as additional interest expense over the period from issuance through maturity. Offering costs of approximately $10.3 million have been recorded as debt issuance costs on our consolidated balance sheet and are amortized as additional interest expense using the effective interest rate method over the period from issuance through maturity. Interest on the notes is payable semi annually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 each year beginning April 15, 2011 and the principal on each note is due in full at their respective maturity dates. The notes may be redeemed at our option, in whole or in part, at any time at a redemption price defined in a make whole clause equaling accrued and unpaid interest plus the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of interest and principal. If we experience a change of control accompanied by a downgrade of the debt to below investment grade, we will be required to offer to repurchase the notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. We are subject to covenants which limit our ability to pledge properties as security under borrowing arrangements and limit our ability to perform sale and leaseback transactions involving our property. At December 31, 2010, the fair value of our senior notes outstanding was $1.197 billion. Note Payable: In December 2006, we purchased an active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, manufacturing facility and certain other assets and liabilities from Siegfried. At December 31, 2010, the fair value of our note payable to Siegfried approximated the carrying value of the note of $25.0 million. Assuming other factors are held constant, an increase in interest rates generally will result in a decrease in the fair value of the note. The note is denominated in Swiss francs and its fair value will also be affected by changes in the U.S. dollar/Swiss franc exchange rate. The carrying value of the note reflects the U.S. dollar/Swiss franc exchange rate and Swiss interest rates. Foreign Currency Forward Contracts: We use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge specific forecasted transactions denominated in foreign currencies and to reduce exposures to foreign currency fluctuations of certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to protect against changes in anticipated foreign currency cash flows resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily associated with non functional currency denominated revenues and expenses of foreign subsidiaries. The foreign currency forward hedging contracts outstanding at December 31, 2010 and 2009 had settlement dates within 36 months. These foreign currency forward contracts are designated as cash flow hedges under ASC 815 and, accordingly, to the extent effective, any unrealized gains or losses on them are reported in other comprehensive income (loss), or OCI, and reclassified to operations in the same periods during which the underlying hedged transactions affect operations. 61 Table of Contents Any ineffectiveness on these foreign currency forward contracts is reported in other income, net. Foreign currency forward contracts entered into to hedge forecasted revenue and expenses were as follows: Notional Amount December 31, Foreign Currency 2010 2009 In thousands $ British Pound $ 58,440 $ Canadian Dollar 133,128 Euro 675,438 1,107,340 Japanese Yen 632,962 Swiss Franc 77,669 Others 54,644 Total $ 1,632,281 $ 1,107,340 We consider the impact of our own and the counterparties credit risk on the fair value of the contracts as well as the ability of each party to execute its obligations under the contract. As of December 31, 2010, credit risk did not materially change the fair value of our foreign currency forward contracts. We recognized an increase in net product sales for certain effective cash flow hedge instruments of $47.7 million for 2010 and a reduction in net product sales of $36.4 million for 2009. These settlements were recorded in the same period as the related forecasted sales occurred. We recognized a decrease in other income, net for the settlement of certain effective cash flow hedge instruments of $0.1 million for 2010 compared to an increase of $6.5 million for 2009. These settlements were recorded in the same period as the related forecasted expenses occurred. Changes in time value, which we excluded from the hedge effectiveness assessment, were included in other income, net. We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to reduce exposures to foreign currency fluctuations of certain recognized assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. These foreign currency forward contracts have not been designated as hedges under ASC 815 and, accordingly, any changes in their fair value are recognized in other income, net in the current period. The aggregate notional amount of the foreign currency forward non designated hedging contracts outstanding at December 31, 2010 and 2009 were $848.6 million and $483.2 million, respectively. Although not predictive in nature, we believe a hypothetical 10% threshold reflects a reasonably possible near term change in foreign currency rates. Assuming that the December 31, 2010 exchange rates were to change by a hypothetical 10%, the fair value of the foreign currency forward contracts would change by approximately $259.0 million. However, since the contracts either hedge specific forecasted intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies or relate to assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the entities functional currencies, any change in the fair value of the contract would be either reported in other comprehensive income and reclassified to earnings in the same periods during which the underlying hedged transactions affect earnings or remeasured through earnings each period along with the underlying asset or liability. On February 23, 2011, we entered into an interest rate swap contract to convert a portion of our interest rate exposure from fixed rate to floating rate to more closely align interest expense with interest income received on its cash equivalent and investment balances. The floating rate is benchmarked to LIBOR. The swap is designated as a fair value hedge on the fixed rate debt issue maturing October 2015. Since the specific terms and notional amount of the swap match those of the debt being hedged, it is assumed to be a highly effective hedge and all changes in fair value of the swaps will be recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets with no net impact recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. As of this filing, the total notional amount of debt hedged with an interest rate swap is $125.0 million. 62 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Executive Summary Celgene Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively we, our or us) is a global integrated biopharmaceutical company primarily engaged in the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative therapies designed to treat cancer and immune inflammatory related diseases. Our primary commercial stage products include REVLIMID, VIDAZA, THALOMID (inclusive of Thalidomide Celgene and Thalidomide Pharmion), ABRAXANE and ISTODAX. REVLIMID is an oral immunomodulatory drug primarily marketed in the United States and select international markets, in combination with dexamethasone, for treatment of patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior therapy and for the treatment of transfusion dependent anemia due to low or intermediate 1 risk myelodysplastic syndromes, or MDS, associated with a deletion 5q cytogenetic abnormality with or without additional cytogenetic abnormalities. VIDAZA, which is licensed from Pfizer, is a pyrimidine nucleoside analog that has been shown to reverse the effects of DNA hypermethylation and promote subsequent gene re expression. VIDAZA is a Category 1 recommended treatment for patients with intermediate 2 and high risk MDS according to the National Comprehensive Cancer Network, or NCCN and is marketed in the United States for the treatment of all subtypes of MDS. VIDAZA has been granted orphan drug designation for the treatment of MDS through May 2011. In Europe, VIDAZA is marketed for the treatment of certain qualified adult patients and has been granted orphan drug designation for the treatment of MDS and acute myeloid leukemia, or AML. THALOMID is marketed for patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma and for the acute treatment of the cutaneous manifestations of moderate to severe erythema nodosum leprosum, or ENL, an inflammatory complication of leprosy and as maintenance therapy for prevention and suppression of the cutaneous manifestation of ENL recurrence. ABRAXANE, which was obtained in the 2010 acquisition of Abraxis BioScience Inc., or Abraxis, is a nanoparticle, albumin bound paclitaxel that was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, in January 2005 for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. ABRAXANE is based on a tumor targeting platform known as nab technology. ISTODAX, which was obtained in the 2010 acquisition of Gloucester Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Gloucester, was approved by the FDA for the treatment of cutaneous T cell lymphoma, or CTCL, in patients who have received at least one prior systemic therapy. ISTODAX has received both orphan drug designation for the treatment of non Hodgkins T cell lymphomas, which includes CTCL and peripheral T cell lymphoma, or PTCL, and fast track status in PTCL from the FDA. The European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products, or EMA, has granted orphan status designation for ISTODAX for the treatment of both CTCL and PTCL. We also sell FOCALIN, which is approved for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, or ADHD, exclusively to Novartis Pharma AG, or Novartis. Additional sources of revenue include a licensing agreement with Novartis, which entitles us to royalties on FOCALIN XR and the entire RITALIN family of drugs, residual payments from GlaxoSmithKline, or GSK, based upon GSKs ALKERAN revenues through the end of March 2011, sale of services through our Cellular Therapeutics subsidiary and other miscellaneous licensing agreements. We continue to invest substantially in research and development, and the drug candidates in our pipeline are at various stages of preclinical and clinical development. These candidates include our IMiDs compounds, which are a class of compounds proprietary to us and having certain immunomodulatory and other biologically important properties, our leading oral anti inflammatory agents and cell products and, after the acquisition of Abraxis, our nanoparticle, albumin bound compounds. We believe that continued acceptance of our primary commercial stage products, participation in research and development collaboration arrangements, depth of our product pipeline, regulatory approvals of both new products and expanded use of existing products provide the catalysts for future growth. 42 Table of Contents The following table summarizes total revenue and earnings for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: % Change 2010 2009 Years Ended December 31, Versus Versus 2010 2009 2008 2009 2008 (In thousands $, except earnings per share) Total revenue $ 3,625,745 $ 2,689,893 $ 2,254,781 34.8 % 19.3 % Net income (loss) attributable to Celgene $ 880,512 $ 776,747 $ (1,533,653 ) 13.4 % N/A Diluted earnings (loss) per share attributable to Celgene $ 1.88 $ 1.66 $ (3.46 ) 13.3 % N/A Total revenue increased by $935.9 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to the continued growth of REVLIMID and VIDAZA in both U.S. and international markets, in addition to sales of Gloucester and Abraxis products subsequent to their acquisition dates. Net income and diluted earnings per share for 2010 reflects the higher level of revenue, partly offset by increased spending for new product launches, research and development activities, expansion of our international operations and additional costs related to the acquisitions of Gloucester and Abraxis. Net income for 2010 also included an $86.7 million increase in upfront payments related to research and development collaboration arrangements compared to 2009. Acquisition of Abraxis BioScience, Inc.: On October 15, 2010, or the acquisition date, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Abraxis. The transaction, referred to as the Merger, resulted in Abraxis becoming our wholly owned subsidiary. The results of operations for Abraxis are included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition and the assets and liabilities of Abraxis have been recorded at their respective fair values on the acquisition date and consolidated with ours. Abraxis contributed net revenues of $88.5 million and losses of $43.0 million, after consideration of non controlling interest, for the period from the acquisition date through December 31, 2010. Prior to the Merger, Abraxis was a fully integrated global biotechnology company dedicated to the discovery, development and delivery of next generation therapeutics and core technologies that offer patients treatments for cancer and other critical illnesses. Abraxis portfolio includes an oncology compound, ABRAXANE, which is based on Abraxis proprietary tumor targeting platform known as nab technology. ABRAXANE, the first FDA approved product to use the nab technology, was launched in 2005 for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. Abraxis has continued to expand the nab technology through a clinical program and a product pipeline containing a number of nab technology products in development. The acquisition of Abraxis accelerates our strategy to become a global leader in oncology by the addition of ABRAXANE and the nab technology to our portfolio. Acquisition of Gloucester Pharmaceuticals, Inc.: On January 15, 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock and stock options of Gloucester. The results of operations for Gloucester are included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition and the assets and liabilities of Gloucester have been recorded at their respective fair values on the acquisition date and consolidated with ours. Gloucester contributed net revenues of $15.8 million and losses of $50.3 million. Prior to the acquisition, Gloucester was a privately held biopharmaceutical company that acquired clinical stage oncology drug candidates with the goal of advancing them through regulatory approval and commercialization. We acquired Gloucester to enhance our portfolio of therapies for patients with life threatening illnesses worldwide. Debt Issuance: On October 7, 2010, we issued a total of $1.25 billion principal amount of senior notes consisting of $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.45% Senior Notes due 2015, or the 2015 notes, $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.95% Senior Notes due 2020, or the 2020 notes, and $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.7% Senior Notes due 2040, or the 2040 notes, and, together with the 2015 notes and the 2020 notes, referred to herein as the notes. The notes were issued at 99.854%, 99.745% and 99.813% of par, respectively, and the discount is amortized as additional interest expense over the period from issuance through maturity. Offering costs of approximately $10.3 million have been recorded as debt issuance costs on our consolidated balance sheet and are amortized as additional interest expense using the effective interest rate method over the period from issuance through maturity. Interest on the notes is payable semi annually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 each year beginning April 15, 2011 and the principal on each note is due in full at their 43 Table of Contents respective maturity dates. The notes may be redeemed at our option, in whole or in part, at any time at a redemption price defined in a make whole clause equaling accrued and unpaid interest plus the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of interest and principal. If we experience a change of control accompanied by a downgrade of the debt to below investment grade, we will be required to offer to repurchase the notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. We are subject to covenants which limit our ability to pledge properties as security under borrowing arrangements and limit our ability to perform sale and leaseback transactions involving our property. Results of Operations: Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 Total Revenue: Total revenue and related percentages for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: % Change 2010 2009 versus versus 2010 2009 2008 2009 2008 (In thousands $) Net product sales: REVLIMID $ 2,469,183 $ 1,706,437 $ 1,324,671 44.7 % 28.8 % VIDAZA 534,302 387,219 206,692 38.0 % 87.3 % THALOMID 389,605 436,906 504,713 (10.8 )% (13.4 )% ABRAXANE 71,429 N/A N/A ISTODAX 15,781 N/A N/A ALKERAN 20,111 81,734 (100.0 )% (75.4 )% Other 28,138 16,681 19,868 68.7 % (16.0 )% Total net product sales $ 3,508,438 $ 2,567,354 $ 2,137,678 36.7 % 20.1 % Collaborative agreements and other revenue 10,540 13,743 14,945 (23.3 )% (8.0 )% Royalty revenue 106,767 108,796 102,158 (1.9 )% 6.5 % Total revenue $ 3,625,745 $ 2,689,893 $ 2,254,781 34.8 % 19.3 % Total revenue increased by $935.9 million, or 34.8%, to $3.626 billion in 2010 compared to 2009, reflecting increases of $456.4 million, or 26.3%, in the United States, and $479.5 million, or 50.1% in international markets. The $435.1 million, or 19.3%, increase in 2009 compared to 2008, included increases of $150.3 million, or 9.5%, in the United States and $284.8 million, or 42.3%, in international markets. Net Product Sales: Total net product sales for 2010 increased by $941.1 million, or 36.7%, to $3.508 billion compared to 2009. The increase was comprised of net volume increases of $892.5 million, price decreases of $2.1 million and the favorable impact from foreign exchange of $50.7 million. The decrease in prices was primarily due to increased Medicaid rebates resulting from the Health Care Reform Act and an increase in rebates to U.S. and international governments resulting from their attempts to reduce health care costs. Total net product sales for 2009 increased by $429.7 million, or 20.1%, to $2.567 billion compared to 2008. The increase was comprised of net volume increases of $428.0 million and price increases of $61.5 million, partly offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $59.8 million. REVLIMID net sales increased by $762.7 million, or 44.7%, to $2.469 billion in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to increased unit sales in both U.S. and international markets. Increased market penetration and the increase in treatment duration of patients using REVLIMID in multiple myeloma contributed to U.S. growth. The 44 Table of Contents growth in international markets reflects the expansion of our commercial activities in over 65 countries in addition to product reimbursement approvals and the launch of REVLIMID in Japan in the latter part of 2010. Net sales of REVLIMID increased by $381.8 million, or 28.8%, to $1.706 billion in 2009 compared to 2008. The increase was primarily due to increased unit sales in both U.S. and international markets, reflecting increases in market penetration and duration of therapy in the United States, in addition to the expansion of our commercial activities in international markets. VIDAZA net sales increased by $147.1 million, or 38.0%, to $534.3 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to increased sales in international markets resulting from the completion of product launches in key European regions during the latter part of 2009 and the increase in treatment duration of patients using VIDAZA. Net sales of VIDAZA increased by $180.5 million, or 87.3%, to $387.2 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to the December 2008 full marketing authorization granted by the European Commission, or E.C., for the treatment of adult patients who are not eligible for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation with Intermediate 2 and high risk MDS according to the International Prognostic System Score, or IPSS, or chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, or CMML, with 10 29 percent marrow blasts without myeloproliferative disorder, or AML with 20 30 percent blasts and multi lineage dysplasia, according to World Health Organization, or WHO, classification of VIDAZA. In addition, sales for 2008 only included VIDAZA sales subsequent to the March 7, 2008 acquisition of Pharmion. THALOMID net sales decreased by $47.3 million, or 10.8%, to $389.6 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to lower unit volumes in the United States resulting from the increased use of REVLIMID. Net sales of THALOMID decreased by $67.8 million, or 13.4%, to $436.9 million in 2009 compared to 2008. The decrease was primarily due to lower unit volumes in the United States resulting from the increased use of REVLIMID, partially offset by higher pricing and volume increases in international markets. ABRAXANE was obtained in the acquisition of Abraxis in October 2010 and was approved by the FDA in January 2005 in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. ISTODAX was obtained in the acquisition of Gloucester in January 2010 and was approved in November 2009 by the FDA for the treatment of CTCL in patients who have received at least one prior systemic therapy. ISTODAX was launched in the first quarter of 2010. ALKERAN net sales decreased by $61.6 million, or 75.4%, to $20.1 million in 2009 compared to 2008. This product was licensed from GSK and sold under our label through March 31, 2009, the conclusion date of the ALKERAN license with GSK. The other net product sales category for 2010 includes sales of FOCALIN and former Pharmion and Abraxis products to be divested. The other net product sales category for 2009 includes sales of FOCALIN and former Pharmion products to be divested. Gross to Net Sales Accruals: We record gross to net sales accruals for sales returns and allowances, sales discounts, government rebates, and chargebacks and distributor service fees. REVLIMID is distributed in the United States primarily through contracted pharmacies under the RevAssist program, which is a proprietary risk management distribution program tailored specifically to help ensure the safe and appropriate distribution and use of REVLIMID. Internationally, REVLIMID is distributed under mandatory risk management distribution programs tailored to meet local competent authorities specifications to help ensure the products safe and appropriate distribution and use. These programs may vary by country and, depending upon the country and the design of the risk management program, the product may be sold through hospitals or retail pharmacies. THALOMID is distributed in the United States under our System for Thalidomide Education and Prescribing Safety, or S.T.E.P.S., program which we developed and is a proprietary comprehensive education and risk management distribution program with the objective of providing for the safe and appropriate distribution and use of THALOMID. Internationally, THALOMID is distributed under mandatory risk management distribution programs tailored to meet local competent authorities specifications to help ensure the safe and appropriate distribution and use of THALOMID. These programs may vary by country and, depending upon the country and 45 Table of Contents the design of the risk management program, the product may be sold through hospitals or retail pharmacies. VIDAZA and ABRAXANE are distributed through the more traditional pharmaceutical industry supply chain and are not subject to the same risk management distribution programs as THALOMID and REVLIMID. We base our sales returns allowance on estimated on hand retail/hospital inventories, measured end customer demand as reported by third party sources, actual returns history and other factors, such as the trend experience for lots where product is still being returned or inventory centralization and rationalization initiatives conducted by major pharmacy chains, as applicable. If the historical data we use to calculate these estimates do not properly reflect future returns, then a change in the allowance would be made in the period in which such a determination is made and revenues in that period could be materially affected. Under this methodology, we track actual returns by individual production lots. Returns on closed lots, that is, lots no longer eligible for return credits, are analyzed to determine historical returns experience. Returns on open lots, that is, lots still eligible for return credits, are monitored and compared with historical return trend rates. Any changes from the historical trend rates are considered in determining the current sales return allowance. REVLIMID is distributed primarily through hospitals and contracted pharmacies, lending itself to tighter controls of inventory quantities within the supply channel and, thus, resulting in lower returns activity to date. THALOMID is drop shipped directly to the prescribing pharmacy and, as a result, wholesalers do not stock the product. Sales discount accruals are based on payment terms extended to customers. Government rebate accruals are based on estimated payments due to governmental agencies for purchases made by third parties under various governmental programs. U.S. Medicaid rebate accruals are generally based on historical payment data and estimates of future Medicaid beneficiary utilization applied to the Medicaid unit rebate formula established by the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services. Full year 2010 revenues were negatively impacted by the U.S. Health Care Reform Act which increased the Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1% and extended that rebate to Medicaid Managed Care Organizations. We utilized historical patient data to estimate the incremental costs related to the Medicaid Managed Care Organizations. In addition, certain international markets have government sponsored programs that require rebates to be paid based on program specific rules and, accordingly, the rebate accruals are determined primarily on estimated eligible sales. Rebates or administrative fees are offered to certain wholesale customers, GPOs and end user customers, consistent with pharmaceutical industry practices. Settlement of rebates and fees may generally occur from one to 15 months from date of sale. We provide a provision for rebates at the time of sale based on the contracted rates and historical redemption rates. Assumptions used to establish the provision include level of wholesaler inventories, contract sales volumes and average contract pricing. We regularly review the information related to these estimates and adjust the provision accordingly. Chargeback accruals are based on the differentials between product acquisition prices paid by wholesalers and lower government contract pricing paid by eligible customers covered under federally qualified programs. Distributor service fee accruals are based on contractual fees to be paid to the wholesale distributor for services provided. TRICARE is a health care program of the U.S. Department of Defense Military Health System that provides civilian health benefits for military personnel, military retirees and their dependents. TRICARE rebate accruals are based on estimated Department of Defense eligible sales multiplied by the TRICARE rebate formula. See Critical Accounting Estimates and Significant Accounting Policies for further discussion of gross to net sales accruals. 46 Table of Contents Gross to net sales accruals and the balance in the related allowance accounts for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Returns Chargebacks and Government and Distributor Allowances Discounts Rebates Service Fees Total In thousands $ Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 16,734 $ 2,895 $ 9,202 $ 8,839 $ 37,670 Pharmion balance at March 7, 2008 926 283 1,266 2,037 4,512 Allowances for sales during 2008 20,624 36,024 35,456 100,258 192,362 Credits/deductions issued for prior year sales (17,066 ) (2,428 ) (7,951 ) (4,127 ) (31,572 ) Credits/deductions issued for sales during 2008 (3,419 ) (33,115 ) (27,163 ) (83,621 ) (147,318 ) Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 17,799 $ 3,659 $ 10,810 $ 23,386 $ 55,654 Allowances for sales during 2009 14,742 37,315 48,082 88,807 188,946 Credits/deductions issued for prior year sales (13,168 ) (2,306 ) (11,042 ) (10,333 ) (36,849 ) Credits/deductions issued for sales during 2009 (12,013 ) (35,070 ) (29,739 ) (72,619 ) (149,441 ) Balance at December 31, 2009 $ 7,360 $ 3,598 $ 18,111 $ 29,241 $ 58,310 Abraxis balance at October 15, 2010 815 4,336 7,253 12,404 Allowances for sales during 2010 6,440 52,975 117,788 123,625 300,828 Credits/deductions issued for prior year sales (5,764 ) (3,304 ) (14,437 ) (15,882 ) (39,387 ) Credits/deductions issued for sales during 2010 (4,072 ) (44,997 ) (40,834 ) (96,870 ) (186,773 ) Balance at December 31, 2010 $ 4,779 $ 8,272 $ 84,964 $ 47,367 $ 145,382 2010 compared to 2009: Returns and allowances decreased by $8.3 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to reduced U.S. provisions resulting from decreased revenue from products with higher return rates. Discounts increased by $15.7 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to revenue increases in the United States and international markets, both of which offer different discount programs, and expansion into new international markets. Government rebates increased by $69.7 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to an approximate $28.4 million increase in Medicaid rebates resulting from the Health Care Reform Act, $40.6 million from reimbursement rate increases in certain international markets and approvals in new markets and the inclusion of ABRAXANE sales subsequent to the October 2010 acquisition of Abraxis. Chargebacks and distributor service fees increased by $34.8 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to a $17.7 million increase in chargebacks resulting from both an increase in sales, including the addition of ABRAXANE, and an increase in certain chargeback rates, which are closely aligned with Medicaid rebate rates. Other increases included $5.6 million from TRICARE due to increased utilization in the current year, distributor service fees of $6.5 million and $2.3 million resulting from the Health Care Reform Act. 2009 compared to 2008: Returns and allowances decreased by $5.9 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to the completion of an inventory centralization and rationalization initiative conducted by a major pharmacy chain during 2009, decreased revenue from products with a higher return rate history in 2009 compared to 2008 and a decrease in ALKERAN returns due to the March 31, 2009 conclusion of the ALKERAN license with GSK. In addition, 2008 includes an increase in THALOMID returns resulting from the anticipated increase in the use of REVLIMID in multiple myeloma. 47 Table of Contents Discounts increased by $1.3 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to revenue increases in the United States and international markets, both of which offer different discount programs. Government rebates increased by $12.6 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to increased sales levels of REVLIMID and VIDAZA in the United States and international markets, as well as reimbursement approvals in new markets. Chargebacks and distributor service fees decreased by $11.5 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to reduced revenue from products with a higher chargeback history in 2009 compared to 2008 and a decrease in ALKERAN chargebacks, partially offset by an increase in international distributor service fees due to certain programs commenced in 2009. Collaborative Agreements and Other Revenue: Revenues from collaborative agreements and other sources decreased by $3.2 million to $10.5 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The decrease was primarily due to receipt of a $5.0 million milestone payment in 2009 which was not duplicated in 2010, partly offset by an increase in licensing fees and the inclusion of Abraxis other revenues subsequent to the October 2010 acquisition date. Revenues from collaborative agreements and other sources decreased by $1.2 million to $13.7 million in 2009 compared to 2008. The decrease was primarily due to the elimination of license fees and amortization of deferred revenues related to Pharmion subsequent to the March 7, 2008 acquisition and was partly offset by an increase in milestone payments received in 2009. Royalty Revenue: Royalty revenue decreased by $2.0 million to $106.8 million in 2010 compared to 2009. A $5.9 million decrease in residual payments earned by us based upon GSKs ALKERAN revenues subsequent to the conclusion of the ALKERAN license with GSK was partly offset by a net $3.9 million increase in royalties earned from Novartis based upon its FOCALIN XR and RITALIN sales. Royalty revenue increased by $6.6 million to $108.8 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to the 2009 inclusion of $9.0 million in residual ALKERAN payments earned by us based upon GSKs ALKERAN revenues subsequent to the conclusion of the ALKERAN license with GSK. Royalty revenue related to Novartis sales of RITALIN decreased by $2.1 million from 2008. Cost of Goods Sold (excluding amortization of acquired intangible assets): Cost of goods sold and related percentages for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 In thousands $ Cost of goods sold (excluding amortization of acquired intangible assets) $ 306,521 $ 216,289 $ 258,267 Increase (decrease) from prior year $ 90,232 $ (41,978 ) $ 128,056 Percent increase (decrease) from prior year 41.7 % (16.3 )% 98.3 % Percent of net product sales 8.7 % 8.4 % 12.1 % Cost of goods sold (excluding amortization of acquired intangible assets) increased by $90.2 million to $306.5 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase was primarily due to the inclusion of a $34.7 million inventory step up amortization adjustment related to sales of ABRAXANE subsequent to the October 15, 2010 acquisition date of Abraxis, in addition to increased sales of REVLIMID and VIDAZA, partly offset by the elimination of higher cost ALKERAN sales, resulting from the March 31, 2009 conclusion of the GSK license agreement. As a percent of net product sales, cost of goods sold (excluding amortization of acquired intangible assets) increased to 8.7% in the 2010 compared to 8.4% in 2009 primarily due to the inventory step up amortization for ABRAXANE. Excluding the step up adjustment, the cost of goods sold ratio for 2010 was 7.7%. Cost of goods sold (excluding amortization of acquired intangible assets) decreased by $42.0 million to $216.3 million in 2009 compared to 2008 partly due to the March 31, 2009 conclusion date of the ALKERAN license with GSK, reducing cost of goods sold by approximately $39.0 million compared to 2008. In addition, costs related to THALOMID decreased as a result of lower unit volumes. Finally, 2008 included a $24.6 million inventory step up adjustment related to the March 7, 2008 acquisition of Pharmion compared to an adjustment of $0.4 million included in 2009. The impact of these reductions was partly offset by higher costs related to increased 48 Table of Contents unit volumes for REVLIMID and VIDAZA. As a percent of net product sales, cost of goods sold (excluding amortization of acquired intangible assets) decreased to 8.4% in 2009 from 12.1% in 2008 primarily due to lower ALKERAN sales, which carried a higher cost to sales ratio relative to our other products, and the decrease in the inventory step up adjustment. Research and Development: Research and development expenses and related percentages for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 In thousands $ Research and development $ 1,128,495 $ 794,848 $ 931,218 Increase (decrease) from prior year $ 333,647 $ (136,370 ) $ 530,762 Percent increase (decrease) from prior year 42.0 % (14.6 )% 132.5 % Percent of total revenue 31.1 % 29.5 % 41.3 % Research and development expenses increased by $333.6 million to $1.128 billion in 2010 compared to 2009, partly due to an increase of $86.7 million in upfront payments related to research and development collaboration arrangements. A $121.2 million upfront payment was made to Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Agios, in 2010, compared to a combined $34.5 million in payments made to GlobeImmune, Inc., or GlobeImmune, and Array BioPharma, Inc., or Array, in 2009. In addition, 2010 included $65.6 million in expenses related to Abraxis and Gloucester subsequent to their acquisition dates, an increase of approximately $55.0 million in salary and benefits related to an increase in employees, an increase of approximately $50.0 million in research and development project spending and increases in spending in support of multiple programs across a broad range of diseases. Research and development expenses decreased by $136.4 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to a $303.1 million charge included in 2008 for a royalty obligation payment to Pfizer that related to the yet to be approved forms of VIDAZA partly offset by 2009 spending increases related to drug discovery and clinical research and development in support of multiple programs across a broad range of diseases. Included in 2009 were upfront payments of $30.0 million and $4.5 million to GlobeImmune and Array, respectively, related to research and development collaboration agreements. Included in 2008 was an upfront payment of $45.0 million made to Acceleron Pharma, Inc. related to a research and development collaboration agreement. The following table provides a breakdown of research and development expenses: 2010 2009 Increase In thousands $ Human pharmaceutical clinical programs $ 480,491 $ 371,189 $ 109,302 Other pharmaceutical programs(1) 505,518 323,702 181,816 Drug discovery and development 120,362 85,208 35,154 Placental stem cell 22,124 14,749 7,375 Total $ 1,128,495 $ 794,848 $ 333,647 (1) Other pharmaceutical programs include spending for toxicology, analytical research and development, quality and regulatory affairs and upfront payments for research and development collaboration arrangements. Research and development expenditures support multiple ongoing clinical proprietary development programs for REVLIMID and other IMiDs compounds; VIDAZA; ABRAXANE in melanoma, non small cell lung and pancreatic cancers; ABI compounds, which are targeted nanoparticle, albumin bound compounds for treatment of solid tumor cancers; amrubicin, our lead compound for small cell lung cancer; apremilast (CC 10004), our lead anti inflammatory compound that inhibits multiple proinflammatory mediators and which is currently being evaluated in Phase III clinical trials for the treatment of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis; pomalidomide, which is currently being evaluated in Phase I, II and III clinical trials; CC 11050, for which Phase II clinical trials are planned; our kinase inhibitor programs; as well as our cell therapy programs. 49 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative: Selling, general and administrative expenses and related percentages for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 In thousands $ Selling, general and administrative $ 950,634 $ 753,827 $ 685,547 Increase from prior year $ 196,807 $ 68,280 $ 244,585 Percent increase from prior year 26.1 % 10.0 % 55.5 % Percent of total revenue 26.2 % 28.0 % 30.4 % Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $196.8 million to $950.6 million in 2010 compared to 2009, partly due to the inclusion of $50.0 million in expenses related to former Abraxis and Gloucester subsequent to their acquisition dates, a $19.1 million increase in facilities costs and a $11.7 million increase in donations to non profit foundations. The remaining increase includes higher marketing and sales related expenses, resulting from ongoing product launch activities of VIDAZA in Europe and ISTODAX in the United States, in addition to the continued expansion of our international commercial activities and an increase in facilities costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $68.3 million to $753.8 million in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily reflecting increases in marketing and sales related expenses of $75.1 million, which were partly offset by a $6.7 million reduction in bad debt expense and other customer account charges. Marketing and sales related expenses in 2009 included product launch activities for REVLIMID, VIDAZA and THALOMID in Europe, Canada and Australia, in addition to VIDAZA relaunch expenses in the United States upon receipt of an expanded FDA approval to reflect new overall survival data. The increase in expense also reflects the continued expansion of our international commercial activities. Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets: Amortization of acquired intangible assets is summarized below for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: 2010 2009 2008 In thousands $ Abraxis acquisition $ 21,648 $ $ Gloucester acquisition 21,833 Pharmion acquisition 159,750 83,403 102,331 Penn T acquisition 1,636 Total amortization $ 203,231 $ 83,403 $ 103,967 Increase (decrease) from prior year $ 119,828 $ (20,564 ) $ 94,897 Amortization of acquired intangible assets increased by $119.8 million to $203.2 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to $95.8 million of incremental expense associated with an acceleration of amortization beginning in 2010 related to the VIDAZA intangible resulting from the acquisition of Pharmion. The revised monthly amortization reflects an updated sales forecast related to VIDAZA. An increase in amortization expense due to the initiation of amortization related to the Abraxis and Gloucester acquired intangibles was partly offset by a reduction in expense associated with certain developed product rights obtained in the Pharmion acquisition becoming fully amortized during 2009. Amortization of acquired intangible assets decreased by $20.6 million to $83.4 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to several intangible assets obtained in the Pharmion acquisition in March 2008 becoming fully amortized during the fourth quarter of 2008 and third quarter of 2009. Acquisition Related Charges and Restructuring, net: Acquisition related charges and restructuring, net was $47.2 million in 2010 and included $22.7 million in accretion of the contingent consideration related to the acquisition of Gloucester in January 2010 and $24.5 million in net costs related to the acquisition of Abraxis in October 2010. In addition to acquisition related fees of $21.4 million, the costs related to Abraxis included restructuring costs of $16.1 million, partly offset by a $13.0 favorable adjustment to the fair value of our liability related to publicly traded contingent value rights, or CVRs, that were issued as part of the acquisition of Abraxis. The restructuring costs are primarily severance related and are expected to be incurred in both 2011 and 2012. 50 Table of Contents Interest and Investment Income, Net: Interest and investment income, net is summarized below for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: 2010 2009 2008 In thousands $ Interest and investment income, net $ 44,757 $ 76,785 $ 84,835 Decrease from prior year $ (32,028 ) $ (8,050 ) $ (24,978 ) Percentage decrease from prior year (41.7 )% (9.5 )% (22.7 )% Interest and investment income, net decreased by $32.0 million to $44.8 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The decrease was primarily due to a $19.6 million net reduction in gains on sales of marketable securities in 2010 compared to 2009 and a $13.6 million reduction in interest income due to lower overall yields and the liquidation of securities to fund the Abraxis acquisition. Interest and investment income decreased by $8.1 million to $76.8 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to reduced yields on invested balances, partly offset by higher invested balances. Equity in Losses of Affiliated Companies: Under the equity method of accounting, we recorded losses of $1.9 million, $1.1 million and $9.7 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The loss for 2010 included $1.3 million in losses from former Abraxis equity method investments. The loss for 2008 included impairment losses of $6.0 million which were based on an evaluation of several factors, including an other than temporary decrease in fair value of an equity method investment below our cost. Interest Expense: Interest expense was $12.6 million, $2.0 million and $4.4 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The $10.6 million increase in 2010 compared to 2009 was due to the interest accrued on the $1.25 billion in senior notes issued in October 2010. Other income, net: Other income, net is summarized below for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: 2010 2009 2008 In thousands $ Other income (expense), net $ (7,220 ) $ 60,461 $ 24,722 Increase (decrease) in income from prior year $ (67,681 ) $ 35,739 $ 27,072 Other income, net decreased by $67.7 million in 2010 to a net expense of $7.2 million compared to an income of $60.5 million in 2009 primarily due to a reduction in net gains on foreign currency forward contracts that had not been designated as hedges entered into in order to offset net foreign exchange gains and losses. Other income increased by $35.7 million to $60.5 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to transaction exchange gains and net gains on foreign currency forward contracts that had not been designated as hedges. In addition, 2008 included an impairment loss of $4.1 million. Income Tax Provision: The income tax provision decreased by $66.5 million to $132.4 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The 2010 effective tax rate of 13.1% reflects the impact from our low tax Swiss manufacturing operations, our overall global mix of income, and tax deductions related to our acquisitions. The income tax provision in 2010 includes the favorable impact of a shift in earnings between the U.S. and lower tax foreign jurisdictions. The income tax provision in 2010 also includes certain discrete items including a tax benefit of $12.5 million related to the settlement of a tax examination, a tax benefit of $5.4 million which was primarily the result of filing our 2009 income tax returns with certain items being more favorable than originally estimated, and a tax benefit of $19.8 million for the reduction in a valuation allowance related to certain tax carryforwards, partially offset by an increase in unrecognized tax benefits related to certain ongoing income tax audits. The income tax provision increased by $34.2 million to $199.0 million in 2009 compared to 2008. The 2009 effective tax rate of 20.4% reflected the impact from our low tax Swiss manufacturing operations and our overall global mix of income. The income tax provision in 2009 included the favorable impact of a shift in earnings between the U.S. and lower tax foreign jurisdictions. The income tax provision in 2009 also included a $17.0 million net tax benefit which was primarily the result of filing our 2008 income tax returns with certain items being more 51 Table of Contents favorable than originally estimated, the reduction in a valuation allowance related to capital loss carryforwards, and the settlement of tax examinations, partially offset by an increase in unrecognized tax benefits related to certain ongoing income tax audits. Net income (loss): Net income (loss) and per common share amounts for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 In thousands $, except per share amounts Net income (loss) attributable to Celgene $ 880,512 $ 776,747 $ (1,533,653 ) Per common share amounts: Basic $ 1.90 $ 1.69 $ (3.46 ) Diluted(1) $ 1.88 $ 1.66 $ (3.46 ) Weighted average shares: Basic 462,298 459,304 442,620 Diluted 469,517 467,354 442,620 (1) In computing diluted earnings per share for 2008, no adjustment to the numerator or denominator was made due to the anti dilutive effect of any potential common stock as a result of our net loss. As of their maturity date, June 1, 2008, substantially all of our convertible notes were converted into shares of common stock. Net income for 2010 reflect the earnings impact from higher sales of REVLIMID and VIDAZA. The favorable impact of higher revenues was partly offset by increased spending for new product launches, research and development activities, expansion of our international operations and the additional costs and intangible amortization related to acquisitions. Net income for 2009 reflects the earnings impact from higher sales of REVLIMID and VIDAZA, which was partly due to sales increases in the United States and our continued expansion into new international markets and the granting of full marketing authorization by the European Commission, or E.C., of VIDAZA for specified treatment of adult patients. The earnings generated from increased sales were partly offset by increased spending on research and development, the costs related to new product launches and our ongoing expansion of international operations. The net loss for 2008 included $1.74 billion in IPRD charges related to our acquisition of Pharmion and a $303.1 million charge for the October 2008 royalty obligation payment to Pfizer related to unapproved forms of VIDAZA. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Increase (Decrease) 2010 2009 versus versus 2010 2009 2008 2009 2008 In thousands $ Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,181,556 $ 909,855 $ 182,187 $ 271,701 $ 727,668 Net cash used in investing activities $ (2,107,305 ) $ (856,078 ) $ (522,246 ) $ (1,251,227 ) $ (333,832 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 1,177,167 $ (61,872 ) $ 281,629 $ 1,239,039 $ (343,501 ) Operating Activities: Net cash provided by operating activities in 2010 increased by $271.7 million to $1,181.6 million as compared to 2009. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily attributable to an expansion of our operations and related increase in net earnings, partially offset by the increase in accounts receivable associated with expanding international sales, which take longer to collect and the timing of receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business. 52 Table of Contents Investing Activities: Net cash used in investing activities in 2010 increased by $1.251 billion to $2.107 billion as compared to a net cash use of $856.1 million in 2009. The 2010 investing activities are principally related to proceeds from the sales of marketable securities that were sold in preparation for the purchase of Abraxis and net cash used in the acquisition of Abraxis of $2.315 billion and the acquisition of Gloucester of $337.6 million. Net sales of marketable securities available for sale amounted to $659.7 million in 2010 compared to net purchases of $749.3 million in 2009. Financing Activities: Net cash provided by financing activities in 2010 was $1.177 billion compared to a net cash usage of $61.9 million in 2009. The $1.239 billion increase in net cash provided by financing activities in 2010 was primarily attributable to proceeds from the issuance of long term debt in 2010 that provided net cash of $1.237 billion. Cash, Cash Equivalents, Marketable Securities Available for Sale and Working Capital: Cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities available for sale and working capital for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: 2010 2010 2009 Increase In thousands $ Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities available for sale $ 2,601,301 $ 2,996,752 $ (395,451 ) Working capital(1) $ 2,835,427 $ 3,302,109 $ (466,682 ) (1) Includes cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities available for sale, accounts receivable, net of allowances, inventory and other current assets, less accounts payable, accrued expenses, income taxes payable and other current liabilities. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities Available for Sale: We invest our excess cash primarily in money market funds, U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. government sponsored agency securities, U.S. government sponsored agency mortgage backed securities, non U.S. government, agency and Supranational securities and global corporate debt securities. All liquid investments with maturities of three months or less from the date of purchase are classified as cash equivalents and all investments with maturities of greater than three months from the date of purchase are classified as marketable securities available for sale. We determine the appropriate classification of our investments in marketable debt and equity securities at the time of purchase. The $395.5 million decrease in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities available for sale at the end of 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the $2.315 billion net cash payment made for the Abraxis acquisition, $337.6 million net cash payment made for the Gloucester acquisition, $121.2 million upfront payment made to Agios related to a research and development collaboration arrangement and $183.1 million cash paid out under our share repurchase program announced in April 2009, partly offset by $1.237 billion in net proceeds from our debt issuance in October 2010 and cash generated from operations. Accounts Receivable, Net: Accounts receivable, net increased by $267.8 million to $706.4 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to increased U.S. and international sales of REVLIMID and VIDAZA among existing customers as well as new customers in countries we have recently entered and the inclusion of $52.7 million in accounts receivable related to our acquisition of Abraxis in October 2010. Days of sales outstanding at the end of 2010 increased to 59 days compared to 56 days in 2009. The increase in days of sales outstanding was primarily due to increased international sales in countries where payment terms are typically greater than 60 days, thereby extending collection periods beyond those in the United States. We expect this trend to continue as our international sales continue to expand. Inventory: Inventory balances increased by $159.4 million to $260.1 million at the end of 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to the inclusion of $136.7 million in ABRAXANE inventory, which included a $90.3 million inventory step up adjustment to fair value resulting from the acquisition of Abraxis in October 2010. Other Current Assets: Other current assets increased by $16.1 million to $275.0 million at the end of 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to increases in prepaid value added taxes, income taxes and an increase in the fair 53 Table of Contents value of foreign currency forward contracts, partly offset by a decrease in prepaid royalties related to VIDAZA sales and interest receivable on short term investments. Accounts Payable, Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities: Accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $550.0 million to $996.0 million at the end of 2010 compared to 2009. The increase was primarily due to the $171.9 million current portion of the contingent consideration related to the acquisition of Gloucester, increases in governmental rebates and Medicaid reimbursements, increased value added taxes, increased royalties and payroll related and other accruals. Income Taxes Payable (Current and Non Current): Income taxes payable increased by $94.1 million to $563.3 million at the end of 2010 compared to 2009 primarily from the current provision for income taxes of $236.3 million, mostly offset by tax payments of $122.0 million and a tax benefit of stock options of $32.5 million. We expect continued growth in our expenditures, particularly those related to research and development, clinical trials, commercialization of new products, international expansion and capital investments. However, we anticipate that existing cash and cash equivalent balances and marketable securities available for sale combined with cash generated from future net product sales, will provide sufficient capital resources to fund our normal operations for the foreseeable future. Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010: Payment Due By Period Less Than More than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years 5 Years Total In thousands $ Senior notes $ $ $ 500,000 $ 750,000 $ 1,250,000 Operating leases 36,679 42,398 29,117 28,953 137,147 Manufacturing facility note payable 4,388 8,563 8,563 4,281 25,795 Other contract commitments 164,216 116,215 59,577 31,151 371,159 Total $ 205,283 $ 167,176 $ 597,257 $ 814,385 $ 1,784,101 Senior Notes: On October 7, 2010, we issued a total of $1.25 billion principal amount of senior notes consisting of $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.45% Senior Notes due 2015 (the 2015 notes), $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.95% Senior Notes due 2020 (the 2020 notes) and $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.7% Senior Notes due 2040 (the 2040 notes and, together with the 2015 notes and the 2020 notes, referred to herein as the notes). The notes were issued at 99.854%, 99.745% and 99.813% of par, respectively, and the discount will be amortized as additional interest expense over the period from issuance through maturity. Offering costs of approximately $10.3 million have been recorded as debt issuance costs on our consolidated balance sheet and are amortized as additional interest expense using the effective interest rate method over the period from issuance through maturity. Operating leases: We lease office and research facilities under various operating lease agreements in the United States and various international markets. The non cancelable lease terms for the operating leases expire at various dates between 2010 and 2018 and include renewal options. In general, we are also required to reimburse the lessors for real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, maintenance and other operating costs associated with the leases. For more information on the major facilities that we occupy under lease arrangements refer to Part I, Item 2, Properties of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Manufacturing Facility Note Payable: In December 2006, we purchased an API manufacturing facility and certain other assets and liabilities from Siegfried Ltd. and Siegfried Dienste AG (together referred to herein as Siegfried) located in Zofingen, Switzerland. At December 31, 2010, the fair value of our note payable to Siegfried approximated the carrying value of the note of $25.0 million. 54 Table of Contents Other Contract Commitments: Other contract commitments include $362.5 million in contractual obligations related to product supply contracts. In addition, we have committed to invest $20.0 million in an investment fund over a ten year period, which is callable at any time. On December 31, 2010, our remaining investment commitment was $8.0 million. For more information refer to Note 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Collaboration Arrangements: Potential milestone payments total approximately $3.8 billion, including approximately $2.3 billion contingent on the achievement of various research, development and regulatory approval milestones and approximately $1.5 billion in sales based milestones. We have entered into certain research and development collaboration agreements, as identified in Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, with third parties that include the funding of certain development, manufacturing and commercialization efforts with the potential for future milestone and royalty payments upon the achievement of pre established developmental, regulatory and or commercial targets. Our obligation to fund these efforts is contingent upon continued involvement in the programs and or the lack of any adverse events which could cause the discontinuance of the programs. Due to the nature of these arrangements, the future potential payments are inherently uncertain, and accordingly no amounts have been recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2010 and 2009 contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. New Accounting Principles New Accounting Pronouncements: In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Accounting Standard Update, or ASU, No. 2009 13, Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, or ASU 2009 13, which amends existing revenue recognition accounting pronouncements that are currently within the scope of FASB Accounting Standards Codificationtm, or ASC, 605. This guidance eliminates the requirement to establish the fair value of undelivered products and services and instead provides for separate revenue recognition based upon managements estimate of the selling price for an undelivered item when there is no other means to determine the fair value of that undelivered item. ASU 2009 13 is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. We are currently evaluating the impact, if any, that the adoption of this amendment will have on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010 06, Improving Disclosures About Fair Value Measurements, or ASU 2010 06, which amends ASC 820 to add new requirements for disclosures about transfers into and out of Levels 1 and 2 and separate disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements relating to Level 3 measurements. ASU 2010 06 also clarifies existing fair value disclosures about the level of disaggregation and about inputs and valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Further, ASU 2010 06 amends guidance on employers disclosures about postretirement benefit plan assets under ASC 715 to require that disclosures be provided by classes of assets instead of by major categories of assets. ASU 2010 06 was effective for the first reporting period (including interim periods) beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the requirement to provide the Level 3 activity of purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a gross basis, which will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010, and for interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The section of the amendment pertaining to transfers into and out of Levels 1 and 2 was effective for us beginning January 1, 2010. The adoption of this section of the amendment did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements. The section of the amendment pertaining to Level 3 measurements will be effective for us beginning January 1, 2011. We are currently evaluating the impact, if any, that the adoption of this amendment will have on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010 17, Milestone Method of Revenue Recognition, or ASU 2010 17, to (1) limit the scope of this ASU to research or development arrangements and (2) require that guidance in this ASU be met for an entity to apply the milestone method (record the milestone payment in its entirety in the period received). However, the FASB clarified that, even if the requirements in ASU 2010 17 are met, entities would not be precluded from making an accounting policy election to apply another appropriate accounting policy that results in the deferral of some portion of the arrangement consideration. The guidance in ASU 2010 17 will apply to milestones in both single deliverable and multiple deliverable arrangements involving research or 55 Table of Contents development transactions. ASU 2010 17 will be effective for fiscal years (and interim periods within those fiscal years) beginning on or after June 15, 2010. Early application is permitted. Entities can apply this guidance prospectively to milestones achieved after adoption. However, retrospective application to all prior periods is also permitted. The adoption of this accounting standard will not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010 27, Fees Paid to the Federal Government by Pharmaceutical Manufacturers, or ASU 2010 27. ASU 2010 27 provides guidance concerning the recognition and classification of the new annual fee payable by branded prescription drug manufactures and importers on branded prescription drugs which was mandated under the U.S. Health Care Reform Act enacted in the United States in March 2010. Under this new accounting standard, the annual fee would be presented as a component of operating expenses and recognized over the calendar year. Such fees are payable using a straight line method of allocation unless another method better allocates the fee over the calendar year. This ASU is effective for calendar years beginning on or after December 31, 2010. As this standard relates only to classification, the adoption of this accounting standard will not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010 29, Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information, or ASU 2010 29. ASU 2010 29 clarifies disclosure requirements to require public entities that enter into business combinations that are material on an individual or aggregate basis to disclose pro forma information for business combinations that occurred in the current reporting period, including pro forma revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the acquisition date had been as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period only. ASU 2010 29 is effective for material business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after January 1, 2011 and early adoption is permitted. We have chosen early adoption of ASU 2010 29 and the pro forma information related to our acquisitions of Abraxis and Gloucester complies with the provisions of this standard (See Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K). Critical Accounting Estimates and Significant Accounting Policies A critical accounting policy is one that is both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operation and requires managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. While our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report, we believe the following accounting estimates and policies to be critical: Revenue Recognition: Revenue from the sale of products is recognized when title and risk of loss of the product is transferred to the customer. Provisions for discounts, early payments, rebates, sales returns and distributor chargebacks under terms customary in the industry are provided for in the same period the related sales are recorded. We record estimated reductions to revenue for volume based discounts and rebates at the time of the initial sale. The estimated reductions to revenue for such volume based discounts and rebates are based on the sales terms, historical experience and trend analysis. We recognize revenue from royalties based on licensees sales of our products or products using our technologies. Royalties are recognized as earned in accordance with the contract terms when royalties from licensees can be reasonably estimated and collectibility is reasonably assured. If royalties cannot be reasonably estimated or collectibility of a royalty amount is not reasonably assured, royalties are recognized as revenue when the cash is received. Gross to Net Sales Accruals: We record gross to net sales accruals for sales returns and allowances, sales discounts, government rebates, and chargebacks and distributor service fees. REVLIMID is distributed in the United States primarily through contracted pharmacies under the RevAssist program, which is a proprietary risk management distribution program tailored specifically to help ensure the safe and appropriate distribution and use of REVLIMID. Internationally, REVLIMID is distributed under mandatory risk management distribution programs tailored to meet local competent authorities specifications to help ensure the products safe and appropriate distribution and use. These programs may vary by country and, depending upon the country and the design of the risk management program, the product may be sold through hospitals or retail 56 Table of Contents pharmacies. THALOMID is distributed in the United States under our S.T.E.P.S. program which we developed and is a proprietary comprehensive education and risk management distribution program with the objective of providing for the safe and appropriate distribution and use of THALOMID. Internationally, THALOMID is distributed under mandatory risk management distribution programs tailored to meet local competent authorities specifications to help ensure the safe and appropriate distribution and use of THALOMID. These programs may vary by country and, depending upon the country and the design of the risk management program, the product may be sold through hospitals or retail pharmacies. VIDAZA and ABRAXANE are distributed through the more traditional pharmaceutical industry supply chain and are not subject to the same risk management distribution programs as THALOMID and REVLIMID. We base our sales returns allowance on estimated on hand retail/hospital inventories, measured end customer demand as reported by third party sources, actual returns history and other factors, such as the trend experience for lots where product is still being returned or inventory centralization and rationalization initiatives conducted by major pharmacy chains, as applicable. If the historical data we use to calculate these estimates do not properly reflect future returns, then a change in the allowance would be made in the period in which such a determination is made and revenues in that period could be materially affected. Under this methodology, we track actual returns by individual production lots. Returns on closed lots, that is, lots no longer eligible for return credits, are analyzed to determine historical returns experience. Returns on open lots, that is, lots still eligible for return credits, are monitored and compared with historical return trend rates. Any changes from the historical trend rates are considered in determining the current sales return allowance. REVLIMID is distributed primarily through hospitals and contracted pharmacies, lending itself to tighter controls of inventory quantities within the supply channel and, thus, resulting in lower returns activity to date. THALOMID is drop shipped directly to the prescribing pharmacy and, as a result, wholesalers do not stock the product. Sales discount accruals are based on payment terms extended to customers. Government rebate accruals are based on estimated payments due to governmental agencies for purchases made by third parties under various governmental programs. U.S. Medicaid rebate accruals are generally based on historical payment data and estimates of future Medicaid beneficiary utilization applied to the Medicaid unit rebate formula established by the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services. Full year 2010 revenues were negatively impacted by the U.S. Health Care Reform Act which increased the Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1% and extended that rebate to Medicaid Managed Care Organizations. We utilized historical patient data to estimate the incremental costs related to the Medicaid Managed Care Organizations. In addition, certain international markets have government sponsored programs that require rebates to be paid based on program specific rules and, accordingly, the rebate accruals are determined primarily on estimated eligible sales. Rebates or administrative fees are offered to certain wholesale customers, GPOs and end user customers, consistent with pharmaceutical industry practices. Settlement of rebates and fees may generally occur from one to 15 months from date of sale. We provide a provision for rebates at the time of sale based on the contracted rates and historical redemption rates. Upon receipt of chargeback, due to the availability of product and customer specific information on these programs, we then establish a specific provision for fees or rebates based on the specific terms of each agreement. Chargeback accruals are based on the differentials between product acquisition prices paid by wholesalers and lower government contract pricing paid by eligible customers covered under federally qualified programs. Distributor service fee accruals are based on contractual fees to be paid to the wholesale distributor for services provided. TRICARE is a health care program of the U.S. Department of Defense Military Health System that provides civilian health benefits for military personnel, military retirees and their dependents. TRICARE rebate accruals are based on estimated Department of Defense eligible sales multiplied by the TRICARE rebate formula. Income Taxes: We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for years in which the temporary differences are expected to reverse. We provide a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets will not be realized. 57 Table of Contents We account for interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions as part of our provision for income taxes. These unrecognized tax benefits relate primarily to issues common among multinational corporations in our industry. We apply a variety of methodologies in making these estimates which include studies performed by independent economists, advice from industry and subject experts, evaluation of public actions taken by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities, as well as our own industry experience. We provide estimates for unrecognized tax benefits. If our estimates are not representative of actual outcomes, our results of operations could be materially impacted. We periodically evaluate the likelihood of the realization of deferred tax assets, and reduce the carrying amount of these deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience by taxing jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income, carryforward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, various income tax strategies and other relevant factors. Significant judgment is required in making this assessment and, to the extent future expectations change, we would have to assess the recoverability of our deferred tax assets at that time. At December 31, 2010, it was more likely than not that we would realize our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances. Share Based Compensation: The cost of share based compensation is recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations based on the fair value of all awards granted, using the Black Scholes method of valuation. The fair value of each award is determined and the compensation cost is recognized over the service period required to obtain full vesting. Compensation cost to be recognized reflects an estimate of the number of awards expected to vest after taking into consideration an estimate of award forfeitures based on actual experience. Other Than Temporary Impairments of Available For Sale Marketable Securities: A decline in the market value of any available for sale marketable security below its cost that is deemed to be other than temporary results in a reduction in carrying amount to fair value. The impairment is charged to operations and a new cost basis for the security established. The determination of whether an available for sale marketable security is other than temporarily impaired requires significant judgment and requires consideration of available quantitative and qualitative evidence in evaluating the potential impairment. Factors evaluated to determine whether the investment is other than temporarily impaired include: significant deterioration in the issuers earnings performance, credit rating, asset quality, business prospects of the issuer, adverse changes in the general market conditions in which the issuer operates, length of time that the fair value has been below our cost, our expected future cash flows from the security, our intent not to sell and an evaluation as to whether it is more likely than not that we will not have to sell before recovery of our cost basis. Assumptions associated with these factors are subject to future market and economic conditions, which could differ from our assessment. Derivatives and Hedging Activities: All derivative instruments are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recorded each period in current earnings or other comprehensive income (loss), depending on whether a derivative instrument is designated as part of a hedging transaction and, if it is, the type of hedging transaction. For a derivative to qualify as a hedge at inception and throughout the hedged period, we formally document the nature and relationships between the hedging instruments and hedged item. We assess, both at inception and on an on going basis, whether the derivative instruments that are used in cash flow hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting the changes in cash flows of hedged items. We assess hedge effectiveness on a quarterly basis and record the gain or loss related to the ineffective portion of derivative instruments, if any, to current earnings. If we determine that a forecasted transaction is no longer probable of occurring, we discontinue hedge accounting and any related unrealized gain or loss on the derivative instrument is recognized in current earnings. We use derivative instruments, including those not designated as part of a hedging transaction, to manage our exposure to movements in foreign exchange and interest rates. The use of these derivative instruments modifies the exposure of these risks with the intent to reduce our risk or cost. We do not use derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes and are not a party to leveraged derivatives. Investment in Affiliated Companies: We apply the equity method of accounting to our investment in common stock of an affiliated company and certain investment funds, which primarily invest in companies conducting business in life sciences such as biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, medical technology, medical devices, diagnostics and health and wellness. 58 Table of Contents Equity investments are reviewed on a regular basis for possible impairment. If an investments fair value is determined to be less than its net carrying value and the decline is determined to be other than temporary, the investment is written down to its fair value. Such an evaluation is judgmental and dependent on specific facts and circumstances. Factors considered in determining whether an other than temporary decline in value has occurred include: market value or exit price of the investment based on either market quoted prices or future rounds of financing by the investee; length of time that the market value was below its cost basis; financial condition and business prospects of the investee; our intent and ability to retain the investment for a sufficient period of time to allow for recovery in market value of the investment; issues that raise concerns about the investees ability to continue as a going concern; and any other information that we may be aware of related to the investment. Accounting for Long Term Incentive Plans: We have established a Long Term Incentive Plan, or LTIP, designed to provide key officers and executives with performance based incentive opportunities contingent upon achievement of pre established corporate performance objectives covering a three year period. We currently have three three year performance cycles running concurrently ending December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013. Performance measures for each LTIP are based on the following components in the last year of the three year cycle: 25% on non GAAP earnings per share, 25% on non GAAP net income and 50% on total non GAAP revenue, as defined. Payouts may be in the range of 0% to 200% of the participants salary for the plans. Awards are payable in cash or, at our discretion, in our common stock based upon our stock price at the payout date. We accrue the long term incentive liability over each three year cycle. Prior to the end of a three year cycle, the accrual is based on an estimate of our level of achievement during the cycle. Upon a change in control, participants will be entitled to an immediate payment equal to their target award, or an award based on actual performance, if higher, through the date of the change in control. Accruals recorded for the LTIP entail making certain assumptions concerning future non GAAP earnings per share, non GAAP net income and non GAAP revenues, as defined; the actual results of which could be materially different than the assumptions used. Accruals for the LTIP are reviewed on a regular basis and revised accordingly so that the liability recorded reflects updated estimates of future payouts. In estimating the accruals, management considers actual results to date for the performance period, expected results for the remainder of the performance period, operating trends, product development, pricing and competition. Valuation of Goodwill, Acquired Intangible Assets and IPRD: We have recorded goodwill, acquired intangible assets and IPRD primarily through the acquisitions of Pharmion, Gloucester and Abraxis. When identifiable intangible assets, including in process research and development, are acquired, we determine the fair values of these assets as of the acquisition date. Discounted cash flow models are typically used in these valuations if quoted market prices are not available, and the models require the use of significant estimates and assumptions including but not limited to: projecting regulatory approvals, estimating future cash flows from product sales resulting from completed products and in process projects and developing appropriate discount rates and probability rates Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over fair value of net assets acquired in a business combination accounted for by the acquisition method of accounting and is not amortized, but subject to impairment testing at least annually or when a triggering event occurs that could indicate a potential impairment. We test our goodwill annually for impairment each November 30. We are organized as a single reporting unit and therefore the goodwill impairment test is done using our overall market value, as determined by our traded share price, as compared to our book value of net assets. Intangible assets with definite useful lives are amortized to their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment if certain events occur. Intangible assets related to IPRD product rights are treated as indefinite lived intangible assets and not amortized until the product is approved for sale by regulatory authorities in specified markets. At that time, we will determine the useful life of the asset, reclassify the asset out of 59 Table of Contents IPRD and begin amortization. Impairment testing is also performed at least annually or when a triggering event occurs that could indicate a potential impairment. Our IPRD product rights were obtained in the Gloucester and Abraxis acquisitions. The Gloucester related product rights will become definite lived intangibles when marketing approval is received for ISTODAX for treatment of PTCL in the United States and the European Union. The Abraxis related product rights will become definite lived intangibles when marketing approval is received for ABRAXANE for treatment of either NSCLC, pancreatic cancer or melanoma in a major market, typically either the United States or the European Union, or in a series of other countries, subject to certain specified conditions and management judgment. Valuation of Contingent Consideration Resulting from a Business Combination: We record contingent consideration resulting from a business combination at its fair value on the acquisition date, and for each subsequent reporting period revalue these obligations and record increases or decreases in their fair value as an adjustment to operating earnings in the consolidated statements of operations. Changes to contingent consideration obligations can result from movements in publicly traded share prices of CVRs, adjustments to discount rates and periods, updates in the assumed achievement or timing of any development milestones or changes in the probability of certain clinical events and changes in the assumed probability associated with regulatory approval. The assumptions related to determining the value of a contingent consideration include a significant amount of judgment and any changes in the assumptions could have a material impact on the amount of contingent consideration expense recorded in any given period. Our contingent consideration liabilities were acquired in the acquisitions of Gloucester and Abraxis. The fair value of the Gloucester contingent consideration liability is based on the discount rates, probabilities and estimated timing of two cash milestone payments to the former Gloucester shareholders. The fair value of the Abraxis contingent consideration liability is based on the quoted market price of the publicly traded CVRs. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The following discussion provides forward looking quantitative and qualitative information about our potential exposure to market risk. Market risk represents the potential loss arising from adverse changes in the value of financial instruments. The risk of loss is assessed based on the likelihood of adverse changes in fair values, cash flows or future earnings. We have established guidelines relative to the diversification and maturities of investments to maintain safety and liquidity. These guidelines are reviewed periodically and may be modified depending on market conditions. Although investments may be subject to credit risk, our investment policy specifies credit quality standards for our investments and limits the amount of credit exposure from any single issue, issuer or type of investment. At December 31, 2010, our market risk sensitive instruments consisted of marketable securities available for sale, our long term debt, our note payable and certain foreign currency forward contracts. Marketable Securities Available for Sale: At December 31, 2010, our marketable securities available for sale consisted of U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. government sponsored agency securities, U.S. government sponsored agency mortgage backed securities, non U.S. government, agency and Supranational securities, global corporate debt securities and marketable equity securities. U.S. government sponsored agency securities include general unsecured obligations either issued directly by or guaranteed by U.S. Government Sponsored Enterprises. U.S. government sponsored agency MBS include mortgage backed securities issued by the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Government National Mortgage Association. Non U.S. government, agency and Supranational securities, consist of direct obligations of highly rated governments of nations other than the United States, obligations of sponsored agencies and other entities that are guaranteed or supported by highly rated governments of nations other than the United States. Corporate debt global includes obligations issued by investment grade corporations including some issues that have been guaranteed by governments and government agencies. Marketable securities available for sale are carried at fair value, held for an unspecified period of time and are intended for use in meeting our ongoing liquidity needs. Unrealized gains and losses on available for sale securities, which are deemed to be temporary, are reported as a separate component of stockholders equity, 60 Table of Contents net of tax. The cost of debt securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. The amortization, along with realized gains and losses and other than temporary impairment charges, is included in interest and investment income, net. As of December 31, 2010, the principal amounts, fair values and related weighted average interest rates of our investments in debt securities classified as marketable securities available for sale were as follows: Duration Less than More than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years 5 Years Total In thousands $ Principal amount $ 435,227 $ 742,537 $ 38,994 $ 12,401 $ 1,229,159 Fair value $ 438,813 $ 755,827 $ 38,490 $ 12,774 $ 1,245,904 Average interest rate 0.5 % 1.0 % 3.7 % 2.6 % 0.9 % Long Term Debt: On October 7, 2010, we issued a total of $1.25 billion principal amount of senior notes consisting of $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.45% Senior Notes due 2015, $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.95% Senior Notes due 2020 and $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.7% Senior Notes due 2040. The notes were issued at 99.854%, 99.745% and 99.813% of par, respectively, and the discount amortized as additional interest expense over the period from issuance through maturity. Offering costs of approximately $10.3 million have been recorded as debt issuance costs on our consolidated balance sheet and are amortized as additional interest expense using the effective interest rate method over the period from issuance through maturity. Interest on the notes is payable semi annually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 each year beginning April 15, 2011 and the principal on each note is due in full at their respective maturity dates. The notes may be redeemed at our option, in whole or in part, at any time at a redemption price defined in a make whole clause equaling accrued and unpaid interest plus the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of interest and principal. If we experience a change of control accompanied by a downgrade of the debt to below investment grade, we will be required to offer to repurchase the notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. We are subject to covenants which limit our ability to pledge properties as security under borrowing arrangements and limit our ability to perform sale and leaseback transactions involving our property. At December 31, 2010, the fair value of our senior notes outstanding was $1.197 billion. Note Payable: In December 2006, we purchased an active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, manufacturing facility and certain other assets and liabilities from Siegfried. At December 31, 2010, the fair value of our note payable to Siegfried approximated the carrying value of the note of $25.0 million. Assuming other factors are held constant, an increase in interest rates generally will result in a decrease in the fair value of the note. The note is denominated in Swiss francs and its fair value will also be affected by changes in the U.S. dollar/Swiss franc exchange rate. The carrying value of the note reflects the U.S. dollar/Swiss franc exchange rate and Swiss interest rates. Foreign Currency Forward Contracts: We use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge specific forecasted transactions denominated in foreign currencies and to reduce exposures to foreign currency fluctuations of certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to protect against changes in anticipated foreign currency cash flows resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily associated with non functional currency denominated revenues and expenses of foreign subsidiaries. The foreign currency forward hedging contracts outstanding at December 31, 2010 and 2009 had settlement dates within 36 months. These foreign currency forward contracts are designated as cash flow hedges under ASC 815 and, accordingly, to the extent effective, any unrealized gains or losses on them are reported in other comprehensive income (loss), or OCI, and reclassified to operations in the same periods during which the underlying hedged transactions affect operations. 61 Table of Contents Any ineffectiveness on these foreign currency forward contracts is reported in other income, net. Foreign currency forward contracts entered into to hedge forecasted revenue and expenses were as follows: Notional Amount December 31, Foreign Currency 2010 2009 In thousands $ British Pound $ 58,440 $ Canadian Dollar 133,128 Euro 675,438 1,107,340 Japanese Yen 632,962 Swiss Franc 77,669 Others 54,644 Total $ 1,632,281 $ 1,107,340 We consider the impact of our own and the counterparties credit risk on the fair value of the contracts as well as the ability of each party to execute its obligations under the contract. As of December 31, 2010, credit risk did not materially change the fair value of our foreign currency forward contracts. We recognized an increase in net product sales for certain effective cash flow hedge instruments of $47.7 million for 2010 and a reduction in net product sales of $36.4 million for 2009. These settlements were recorded in the same period as the related forecasted sales occurred. We recognized a decrease in other income, net for the settlement of certain effective cash flow hedge instruments of $0.1 million for 2010 compared to an increase of $6.5 million for 2009. These settlements were recorded in the same period as the related forecasted expenses occurred. Changes in time value, which we excluded from the hedge effectiveness assessment, were included in other income, net. We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to reduce exposures to foreign currency fluctuations of certain recognized assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. These foreign currency forward contracts have not been designated as hedges under ASC 815 and, accordingly, any changes in their fair value are recognized in other income, net in the current period. The aggregate notional amount of the foreign currency forward non designated hedging contracts outstanding at December 31, 2010 and 2009 were $848.6 million and $483.2 million, respectively. Although not predictive in nature, we believe a hypothetical 10% threshold reflects a reasonably possible near term change in foreign currency rates. Assuming that the December 31, 2010 exchange rates were to change by a hypothetical 10%, the fair value of the foreign currency forward contracts would change by approximately $259.0 million. However, since the contracts either hedge specific forecasted intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies or relate to assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the entities functional currencies, any change in the fair value of the contract would be either reported in other comprehensive income and reclassified to earnings in the same periods during which the underlying hedged transactions affect earnings or remeasured through earnings each period along with the underlying asset or liability. On February 23, 2011, we entered into an interest rate swap contract to convert a portion of our interest rate exposure from fixed rate to floating rate to more closely align interest expense with interest income received on its cash equivalent and investment balances. The floating rate is benchmarked to LIBOR. The swap is designated as a fair value hedge on the fixed rate debt issue maturing October 2015. Since the specific terms and notional amount of the swap match those of the debt being hedged, it is assumed to be a highly effective hedge and all changes in fair value of the swaps will be recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets with no net impact recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. As of this filing, the total notional amount of debt hedged with an interest rate swap is $125.0 million. 62 
 
