FILE:MWV/MWV-8K-20020819121416.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): August 19, 2002 MEADWESTVACO CORPORATION (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) Delaware 001-31215 31-1797999 (State or Other (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Jurisdiction of Identification No.) Incorporation or Organization) One High Ridge Park 06905 Stamford, CT (Address of Principal Executive (Zip Code) Offices) (203) 461-7400 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) N/A (Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS On August 19, 2002, MeadWestvaco Corporation (the "Company") issued a statement describing developments in asbestos-related litigation involving the Company, and released a written series of questions and answers relating to this litigation. A copy of this statement is included as Exhibit 99.1 hereto, the text of the questions and answers is included as Exhibit 99.2 hereto, and each are incorporated by reference herein. ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (a) Financial statements of businesses acquired. Not applicable. (b) Pro forma financial information. Not applicable. (c) Exhibits 99.1. Statement, dated August 19, 2002. 99.2. Questions and Answers, dated August 19, 2002
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Dated: August 19, 2002 MEADWESTVACO CORPORATION By: \s\ John J. Carrara ------------------------------ Name: John J. Carrara Title: Assistant Secretary
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description - -------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- 99.1 Statement, dated August 19, 2002. 99.2 Questions and Answers, dated August 19, 2002.

Exhibit 99.1 A MESSAGE FROM JEROME F. TATAR, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD, AND JOHN A. LUKE, JR., PRESIDENT AND CEO Last week, MeadWestvaco filed its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2002, with the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC). In this filing, we reported that MeadWestvaco, together with scores of other companies, had been named as a defendant in hundreds of asbestos-related lawsuits. Most of these lawsuits were filed in the last quarter, and in keeping with our commitment to appropriate disclosure, we decided we should report this information to the SEC. We made this decision to report these claims despite our determination that virtually all the cases fail to identify any MeadWestvaco products or premises as the cause of injury to any one of the plaintiffs identified. In fact, we strongly believe that the company's actual exposure to liability from asbestos litigation is limited. At one time, Mead's specialty paper division manufactured industrial friction paper that contained asbestos. We ceased production two decades ago, and this product comprised at most a fraction of 1% of Mead's annual paper production. Mead sold the paper principally to a few auto-part manufacturers, who soaked the product in resin, and then encased the cured product inside fluid-filled automatic transmission assemblies. The use of Mead's friction paper in these assemblies provided no opportunity for the harmful emission of asbestos fibers to consumers. The claims recently filed against MeadWestvaco and other companies demonstrate the indiscriminate nature of this litigation offensive against companies whose responsibility for asbestos injuries is minimal or non-existent. These claims typically list hundreds of plaintiffs and defendants. The allegations generally fail to assert any specific connection between MeadWestvaco products or premises and any particular plaintiff's injuries. In fact, they typically fail to identify any MeadWestvaco products or premises at all. In our past experience, a large percentage of such claims were never substantiated, and were dismissed by the courts. We will continue vigorously to defend against claims made without basis in law or fact. While opportunities to settle claims may from time to time require the disbursal of funds by MeadWestvaco, our review of our exposure establishes that such payments will have no material effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations. MeadWestvaco Corporation, headquartered in Stamford, Conn., with annual sales of approximately $8 billion, is a leading global producer of packaging, coated and specialty papers, consumer and office products and specialty chemicals. The company operates in 33 countries, serves customers in approximately 100 nations, and employs more than 30,000 people worldwide. Using sustainable forestry practices, MeadWestvaco owns and manages 3.4 million acres of forests. For more information about MeadWestvaco, visit the company's website at www.meadwestvaco.com. # # # # #
Certain statements in this document and elsewhere by management of the company that are neither reported financial results nor other historical information are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such information includes, without limitation, the business outlook, assessment of market conditions, anticipated financial and operating results, strategies, future plans, contingencies and contemplated transactions of the company. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause or contribute to actual results of company operations, or the performance or achievements of each company, or industry results, to differ materially from those expressed, or implied by the forward-looking statements. In addition to any such risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed elsewhere herein, risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from those expressed or implied for the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, events or circumstances which affect the ability of MeadWestvaco to integrate successfully and achieve the anticipated benefits of the transaction; competitive pricing for the company's products; changes in raw materials pricing, energy and other costs; fluctuations in demand and changes in production capacities; changes to economic growth in the U.S. and international economies; government policies and regulations, including, but not limited to those affecting the environment and the tobacco industry; adverse results in current or future litigation; currency movements and other risk factors discussed in the company's Form 10-K for the transition period ended December 31, 2001 and in other filings made from time to time with the SEC. MeadWestvaco undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Investors are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures made on related subjects in the Company's reports filed with the SEC.

Exhibit 99.2 Q. Why did the Company disclose its asbestos situation this quarter? A. In recent months, there has been a national trend of increased asbestos claims against manufacturers. Consistent with this trend, MeadWestvaco experienced an increase in the level of asbestos filings during the last quarter. In keeping with its long-standing commitment to appropriate disclosure, the Company decided that it should disclose this development. On December 31, 2001, 22 asbestos personal injury lawsuits were pending against Mead; 32 lawsuits were pending against Westvaco. By March 31, 2002, an additional 98 lawsuits had been filed against MeadWestvaco. Over that same time period, courts dismissed 72 lawsuits (without any payment). Thus, the Company had 80 asbestos lawsuits pending at the end of the first quarter. As of August 17, 2002, there were about 500 lawsuits pending against the Company. Q. Is the increase in the number of cases recently filed related to product liability? A. The recent lawsuits naming MeadWestvaco, as well as hundreds of other companies, as a defendant contain no allegations identifying a particular MeadWestvaco product. Similarly, the complaints commonly do not specify an employment location operated by the Company. Instead, the recent increase in filings experienced by MeadWestvaco clearly seems to be part of a well-publicized national surge of new asbestos claims directed at manufacturers and facilities that only had the most peripheral involvement with asbestos. (See, e.g., RAND Institute for Civil Justice, Asbestos Litigation in the U.S.: A New Look at an Old Issue, August 2001). Q. What was the nature of MeadWestvaco's involvement with asbestos? A. MeadWestvaco's involvement in asbestos cases has been limited because the Company did not mine or produce asbestos. Mead's industrial specialty paper division once made asbestos-containing friction paper, primarily for use in automatic transmissions. The volume of asbestos paper produced was never more than a de minimus percentage of the total paper production of the former Mead Corporation. Small quantity production was also undertaken for other limited applications, as well as test runs. Q. Why is the Company so confident that it does not have material exposure to asbestos personal injury liability? A. The friction paper produced by the Specialty Papers Division was overwhelmingly used in the construction of automatic transmission parts. Friction paper
used in automatic transmissions is impregnated with resins and hardened by curing. This treatment binds any asbestos fibers in the product and prevents them from being inhaled. In addition, automatic transmissions are filled by pressurized hydraulic fluid, which means that the cured friction paper used in transmissions is constantly bathed in automatic transmission oil, preventing any asbestos in the paper from becoming airborne. Finally, the cured, soaked friction paper is all totally encased in the automatic transmission housing. For these reasons, it is virtually impossible for anyone in the general public to have been exposed to respirable asbestos from this friction paper. To the best of our knowledge, we have never received any specific allegation of harm to an ultimate consumer or to the general public from our asbestos-containing product. The Company has substantial insurance to cover its asbestos liability. The extent of that coverage has recently been analyzed and confirmed by an independent insurance consultant. Additionally, in working with its insurers on asbestos claims, MeadWestvaco has found that they have honored their duty to defend and to indemnify the Company under their policies. In its experience managing asbestos claims, the Company has never suffered an adverse judgment in trial court proceedings. Through the first quarter of 2002, courts have dismissed most asbestos cases filed against the Company. The Company has never paid - individually or in the aggregate - a material amount to settle asbestos cases. The Company maintained an excellent medical and industrial hygiene program. To the best of our knowledge, the Company has received only a few asbestos-related worker compensation claims in its entire history. Q. What would the exposure have likely been to workers in the converting and distribution of the product? A. MeadWestvaco has to date received only a negligible number of claims from workers involved in converting and distribution of the product. Approximately 172 Specialty Paper Division employees worked in the production of asbestos friction paper. Mead maintained an outstanding asbestos medical and industrial hygiene program. As a result, we have had only a few asbestos-related workplace exposure claims from our employees and from employees who worked with the Company's friction paper at customer locations. Again, all amounts paid to settle or to win dismissal of these claims have been immaterial -- individually and in the aggregate. Q. Can you tell us more about your asbestos friction paper production? A. The amount that was produced varied from year to year from 1956 until 1983. To the best of our knowledge, asbestos-containing friction paper never constituted more than a few tenths of 1% of the total annual paper production of the Mead Corporation.
Q. Does MeadWestvaco have insurance coverage for asbestos liabilities? A. A recent analysis by an independent insurance consulting firm determined that the Company has substantial insurance coverage, subject to applicable deductibles, for the relevant periods. Over the pertinent time period, MeadWestvaco has coverage from more than 50 insurance companies, including many of the leading insurers in the world. Additionally, in working with its insurers on asbestos claims, MeadWestvaco has found that the carriers have been honoring their duty to defend and indemnify the Company under their policies. Q. What outside legal counsel is advising you on asbestos? A. We have retained experienced local trial counsel to defend the interests of the Company in each jurisdiction where a case has been filed. We have also retained the international law firm of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher to serve as national coordinating counsel for asbestos liability matters. The Firm has extensive experience in asbestos issues and in managing litigation across the Country. The Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher partner leading the effort for the Company is a nationally-recognized expert on environmental issues and, in the past, served as the General Counsel of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Q. Do you have reserves for asbestos claims? A. The company believes that it has prudent reserves for its liabilities, including all legal matters.


