FILE:MWV/MWV-8K-20030319094023.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM 5.  OTHER EVENTS
In connection with a proposed filing on a Registration Statement on Form S-3 of a shelf registration covering $500 million of long-term debt, the company is filing pro forma financial information of the company for the year ended December 31, 2002. The merger of The Mead Corporation ("Mead") and Westvaco Corporation ("Westvaco") to form MeadWestvaco Corporation ("MeadWestvaco" or the "company") was completed on January 29, 2002.  For accounting purposes, the merger was treated as an acquisition of Mead by Westvaco.  Therefore, the historical financial statements of MeadWestvaco are the consolidated historical financial statements of Westvaco.  The unaudited pro forma financial  information presents, under the purchase method of accounting, unaudited pro forma combined statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2002 as if the business combination between Westvaco and Mead had been completed on January 1, 2002.  The information set forth below should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements of MeadWestvaco included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, filed on March 3, 2003.  The unaudited pro forma combined financial data is included only for the purpose of illustration, and does not necessarily indicate what the operating results would have been had the business combination between Westvaco and Mead been completed on the date indicated.
 
ITEM 7.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
MEADWESTVACO CORPORATION By /s/_          John J. Carrara          Assistant Secretary
John J. Carrara
         Date: March 19, 2003
 
 

In connection with a proposed filing on Form S-3 of a shelf registration statement covering $500 million of long-term debt, the company is filing  unaudited pro forma financial information of the company for the year ended December 31, 2002.  
Exhibit 99
On January 29, 2002, The Mead Corporation ("Mead") and Westvaco Corporation ("Westvaco") merged to form MeadWestvaco Corporation ("MeadWestvaco" or the "company"), creating a global company with leading positions in packaging, coated and specialty papers, consumer and office products, and specialty chemicals.  Mead and Westvaco announced their agreement in August 2001. The transaction was approved by the Boards of Directors and the shareholders of both companies at special meetings held on January 28, 2002.  Under the terms of the transaction, Mead shareholders received one share of MeadWestvaco stock for each share of Mead stock held, and Westvaco shareholders received 0.97 shares of MeadWestvaco stock for each share of Westvaco stock held.  Mead shareholders also received a cash payment of $1.20 per share paid by Mead. 
The merger was structured as a stock-for-stock exchange and was accounted for as an acquisition of Mead by Westvaco. The merger of Mead and Westvaco to form MeadWestvaco was completed on January 29, 2002.  The historical financial statements of MeadWestvaco are the consolidated historical financial statements of Westvaco. 
The purchase price for the acquisition, including transaction costs, has been allocated to assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on estimated fair values at the date of acquisition.  The stock-for-stock exchange resulted in the issuance of approximately 99.2 million shares of common stock to fund the value of the merger of $3.1 billion.  Since the date of the merger, the company adjusted the purchase price allocation for the acquisition due to refinements of values of certain property, plant, property, equipment and certain liabilities with corresponding adjustments to goodwill and deferred income taxes.  Included in the unaudited pro forma statement of operations are the January 2002 income statement effects of this purchase price allocation.  The final purchase price allocation is as follows:
The following table presents, under the purchase method of accounting, unaudited pro forma combined statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2002 as if the business combination between Westvaco and Mead had been completed on January 1, 2002.  The MeadWestvaco actual represents Westvaco for a full year and combined results since the date of the merger for approximately eleven months.  The information set forth below should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements of MeadWestvaco included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K  for the year ended December 31, 2002, filed on March 3, 2003.  The unaudited pro forma combined financial data is included only for the purpose of illustration, and does not necessarily indicate what the operating results would have been had the business combination between Westvaco and Mead been completed on the date indicated.
 
 
 
See accompanying Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Statements of Operations.
 


