FILE:MWV/MWV-8K-20040827155735.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
 
On August 13, 2004, MeadWestvaco Corporation issued a news release announcing the acquisition of all of the shares of Tilibra S.A. Produtos de Papelaria, a leading Brazilian-based producer of consumer and office products for the retail and commercial stationery channels. The purchase price was approximately $70 million, subject to post closing adjustments. The release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The Company is evaluating this acquisition to determine whether it is significant due to differences between Brazilian and U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. If the acquisition is deemed significant, the company will file the required Form 8-K/A as noted below.
 
The information furnished under Item 9 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.
 
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a) and (b) financial statements of businesses acquired and pro forma financial information
 
The requirement to file the financial statements and pro forma financial information required by Item 9.01 (a) and 9.01 (b) is currently being reviewed by the Company. If required, the Company will file the required financial statements and pro forma financial information under the cover of Form 8-K/A as soon as practicable but in no event later than October 26, 2004.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 Exhibit 99.1     News Release dated August 13, 2004.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
today announced it has acquired the business of Tilibra S.A. Produtos de Papelaria, a leading Brazilian-based producer of consumer and office products for the retail and commercial stationery channels. Terms of the transaction were not disclosed.
STAMFORD, CONN., August 13, 2004  MeadWestvaco Corporation (NYSE: MWV)
 
"With its broad line of school, home, and office products, Tilibra provides MeadWestvaco a unique opportunity to extend its product platform to a large market where the company has a proven record of growth," said Neil A. McLachlan, president of MeadWestvaco's Consumer & Office Products Division. "This acquisition is a key component of our international expansion efforts."
 
Tilibra, a family-owned business, was founded in 1928 and employs approximately 1,000 people in the city of Bauru, So Paulo state.
 
MeadWestvaco Corporation, headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, is a leading global producer of packaging, coated and specialty papers, consumer and office products and specialty chemicals. Among the principal markets it serves are the automotive, beverage, consumer products, healthcare, media and entertainment and publishing industries. The company operates in 29 countries and serves customers in nearly 100 nations. Its highly recognized consumer and office brands include AT-A-GLANCE, Cambridge, Columbian, DayRunner, Five Star, and Mead. MeadWestvaco manages strategically located forestlands according to stringent environmental standards and in conformity with the Sustainable Forestry Initiative.
 


