FILE:MWV/MWV-8K-20040331124212.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
ITEM 9.   Regulation FD Disclosure
On March 31, 2004, MeadWestvaco Corporation issued two press releases. The first press release, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, announced the completion of the sale of the 10,700-acre Bonneau Ferry tract of land in Berkeley County along the Cooper River.  The second press release, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2, announced the company's expected gain on the sale of forestlands and the outlook for the 1st quarter ended March 31, 2004.
The information furnished under Item 9 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
MEADWESTVACO CORPORATION By   
 /s/  John J. Carrara
         John J. Carrara          Assistant Secretary
         Date: March 31, 2004

Exhibit 99.1
 
MeadWestvaco Corporation Announces Sale of Bonneau Ferry Tract
DNR to Manage 10,700-Acre Property Acquired by The Conservation Fund
COLUMBIA, S.C., March 31, 2004 -
U.S. Senator Fritz Hollings, the State of South Carolina, The Conservation Fund and MeadWestvaco Corporation today announced the permanent protection of the
10,700-acre Bonneau Ferry tract of land in Berkeley County along the Cooper River. The Conservation Fund, a national organization that facilitates the purchase of private land to help maintain open spaces, purchased the property from MeadWestvaco for $47 million on behalf of the State of South Carolina and the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources (DNR). Senator Hollings secured $32.4 million in grants from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for the state to immediately acquire 7,315-acres of the Bonneau Ferry tract. The Conservation Fund will hold title to the remaining 3,385-acres until DNR obtains additional funding, according to DNR Director John Frampton. The final phase of the project is expected to be completed by late 2004 or early 2005. MeadWestvaco acquired this property in 1949 and has managed it as a working forest and a conference center while protecting its significant wildlife habitats and historic sites. The company made the decision to sell Bonneau Ferry following the merger of The Mead Corporation and Westvaco Corporation in 2002. Since that time, the company has worked closely with The Conservation Fund and the South Carolina DNR to ensure that the company's legacy of careful stewardship of this property continues. Frampton added that The Conservation Fund consistently demonstrates an unwavering commitment to natural resources and wildlife habitat conservation in South Carolina. Without their involvement, this and other monumental conservation and land protection projects in our state would not have been possible, Frampton said. Frampton also praised Senator Hollings and Governor Mark Sanford for their invaluable support of the Bonneau Ferry project. "Federal funding, obtained by Senator Hollings, has played an integral role in nearly every major conservation project in South Carolina, for example the ACE Basin in the Lowcountry and more recently the 12,439-acre Wee Tee State Forest project in Williamsburg and Georgetown counties." Frampton added that, "The personal effort, time and attention that Governor Sanford dedicated to Bonneau Ferry, played a vital role in helping us reach a timely agreement with all the partners involved in this important conservation project." "This administration has said from day one that preserving open spaces is critical to quality of life in South Carolina and maintaining the competitive advantage we have over other states," Governor Sanford said. "I got involved in this particular process because it represented a real opportunity for our state to do something to safeguard its unique natural beauty, and I'd credit Senator Hollings and everyone who helped us in reaching this agreement for their commitment to those goals." The Bonneau Ferry tract, home of bald eagles and endangered red cockaded woodpeckers, covers more than a third of the newly created 30,000-acre Cooper River Historic District. The tract lies between Mepkin Abbey and Cordesville and includes thousands of acres of timberland. Walls of a 1738 masonry house at Comingtee Plantation survive, as do 1783 granite markers of the old river road to Charleston. The tract also contains the ruins of a rice mill and remnants of rice fields. "Thanks to the extraordinary leadership and vision of Senator Hollings, Governor Sanford and MeadWestvaco CEO John A. Luke, Jr., the citizens of South Carolina will forever enjoy the natural, cultural, and historic wonders of Bonneau Ferry," said Larry Selzer, president of The Conservation Fund. "The Conservation Fund is proud to work with leading corporations such as MeadWestvaco, whose commitment to sustainable forestry and balanced conservation is to be applauded." Protecting Bonneau Ferry has long been a high priority of Senator Hollings. "This is a great day for South Carolina, and I would like to thank all of the partners involved for making this project a reality. With millions of people moving to the coast, and wild lands under constant threat of development, we have to be careful we don't destroy the natural resources and the quality of life that draw them. This project not only protects those lands to be purchased, but protects the estuaries and water resources, which support our seafood and tourism industries. As we all know, the government has significant budget challenges, and the only way for large projects like this to be successful is through a cooperative effort between federal and state governments, conservation organizations, private landowners, and the like," Hollings said. "We are delighted to be turning over the Bonneau Ferry tract to The Conservation Fund and the State of South Carolina," said John A. Luke, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer of MeadWestvaco. "MeadWestvaco has been a good steward of this property for more than a half century, and we are confident that this partnership will continue our legacy." The Conservation Fund received financial support from the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, Gaylord and Dorothy Donnelley Foundation, the Merck Family Fund and Anheuser-Busch. Headquartered in Arlington, Virginia, The Conservation Fund acts to protect the nation's land and water resources in partnership with other organizations, public agencies, foundations, corporations, and individuals. Seeking innovative conservation solutions for the 21st century, the Fund works to integrate economic and environmental goals. Since its founding in 1985, the Fund has helped its partners safeguard wildlife habitat, greenways, community "greenspace" and historic sites totaling more than 3.7 million acres throughout the nation.
MeadWestvaco Corporation, headquartered in Stamford, Conn., is a leading global producer of packaging, coated and specialty papers, consumer and office products, and specialty chemicals. Among the principal markets it serves are the automotive, beverage, consumer products, healthcare, media and entertainment, and publishing industries. The company operates in 29 countries and serves customers in nearly 100 nations. Its highly recognized consumer and office brands include AT-A-GLANCE, Cambridge, Columbian, Five Star, and Mead. MeadWestvaco manages strategically located forestlands according to stringent environmental standards and in conformity with the Sustainable Forestry Initiative. For more information, visit www.meadwestvaco.com.

STAMFORD, CONN., March 31, 2004 - MeadWestvaco Corporation (NYSE: MWV) today announced that it expects to recognize gains of approximately $68 million, or 21 cents per share, in the first quarter of 2004 on sales of 27,700 acres of forestlands with gross proceeds of approximately $74 million. The forestland proceeds include the sale of a 10,700-acre tract of land in South Carolina for $47 million, which was announced earlier today. For the first quarter of 2004, the company expects to report a net loss in the range of 10 to 15 cents per share. The anticipated loss includes the gain on the sales of forestlands, as well as costs of approximately 3 cents per share related to the company's productivity initiative. John A. Luke, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer, said, "Our first quarter results will reflect the continuing effects of a challenging marketplace including higher costs for wood and for market-related downtime in paper and paperboard, as well as the traditional seasonal weakness many of our businesses experience in the first quarter. We are, however, experiencing strengthening demand in our markets, particularly in papers and bleached board where we are no longer taking market-related downtime. We are also making good progress toward delivering profitable growth through our focus on higher value packaging solutions. Actions are well underway to reduce cost, improve working capital and earnings as part of the productivity initiative." MeadWestvaco will announce its full first quarter 2004 results on April 22, 2004, and will host a conference call to discuss the results on the same day. MeadWestvaco Corporation, headquartered in Stamford, Conn., is a leading global producer of packaging, coated and specialty papers, consumer and office products, and specialty chemicals. Among the principal markets it serves are the automotive, beverage, consumer products, healthcare, media and entertainment, and publishing industries. The company operates in 29 countries and serves customers in nearly 100 nations. Its highly recognized consumer and office brands include AT-A-GLANCE, Cambridge, Columbian, Five Star, and Mead. MeadWestvaco manages strategically located forestlands according to stringent environmental standards and in conformity with the Sustainable Forestry Initiative. For more information, visit www.meadwestvaco.com.
Exhibit 99.2
MEADWESTVACO                   
News Release
 
MEADWESTVACO CORPORATION
One High Ridge Park
Stamford Connecticut 06905
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Certain statements in this document and elsewhere by management of the company that are neither reported financial results nor other historical information are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such information includes, without limitation, the business outlook, assessment of market conditions, anticipated financial and operating results, strategies, future plans, contingencies and contemplated transactions of the company. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause or contribute to actual results of company operations, or the performance or achievements of each company, or industry results, to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In addition to any such risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed elsewhere herein, risks, uncertainties and other factors t hat could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from those expressed or implied for the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, events or circumstances which affect the ability of MeadWestvaco to realize improvements in operating earnings and cash flow expected from the company's productivity initiative; competitive pricing for the company's products; changes in raw materials pricing; energy and other costs; fluctuations in demand and changes in production capacities; changes to economic growth in the United States and international economies; government policies and regulations, including, but not limited to those affecting the environment and the tobacco industry; adverse results in current or future litigation, currency movements and other risk factors discussed in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and in other filings made from time to time with the SEC. MeadWestvaco undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forwar d-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Investors are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures made on related subjects in the company's reports filed with the SEC.
 
 


