FILE:MWV/MWV-8K-20050505172952.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
 
Effective April 30, 2005, MeadWestvaco Corporation ("MeadWestvaco" or "Seller" or "Company") completed the sale of its printing and writing papers business (the "Business") and related forestlands to Escanaba Timber LLC (formerly known as Maple Acquisition LLC) (" Escanaba Timber" or "Purchaser"), a Delaware limited liability company, pursuant to the Equity and Asset Purchase Agreement, as amended (the "Purchase Agreement") dated January 14, 2005 and amended on April 22, 2005. Other than in respect of the Purchase Agreement and the agreements entered into in connection therewith, there are no material relationships between MeadWestvaco and its affiliates, on the one hand, and the Purchaser, and its respective affiliates, on the other hand. The Purchase Agreement provides for the sale by MeadWestvaco, through a combination of asset and stock transfers, of its coated papers and carbonless papers businesses, which consists primarily of mills located in Chillicothe, Ohio; Escanaba, Michigan; Luke, Maryland; Rumford, Maine; and Wickliffe, Kentucky, and approximately 900,000 acres of forestlands in Illinois, Kentucky, Michigan, Missouri, Ohio and Tennessee, which provide wood to these mills (the "Forestlands"), to the Purchaser.
 
At the closing, the consideration paid by the Purchaser to the Seller was as follows: (a) $2.2 billion in cash (subject to certain adjustments), and (b) $100 million in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured payable-in-kind promissory notes (fair value of $75 million) of a subsidiary of the Purchaser. The promissory notes are floating rate notes that will bear interest at a rate of six-month LIBOR plus 700 basis points, which interest shall be payable-in-kind until maturity (8.5 years from the date of issuance) and shall compound semi-annually. Additionally, the final closing date working capital was adjusted in a manner that reduced the proceeds received by Seller by $30 million.
 
The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements of MeadWestvaco ("Pro formas") are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. These Pro formas assume the divestiture of the Business and Forestlands in accordance with the Purchase Agreement, and the pro forma balance sheet as of March 31, 2005 is based on the historical consolidated financial statements of the company giving effect to the divestiture as if it had occurred on March 31, 2005. The pro forma statements of operations for the quarters ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 and for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, are based on the historical consolidated financial statements of the company giving effect to the divestiture as if it had occurred on January 1, 2002. These Pro formas should be read in conjunction with the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. The Pro formas attached hereto help to illustrate the financial characteristics of the divestiture under one set of assumptions, but do not predict or suggest future results. The Pro formas also do not attempt to show what the financial condition or results of operations of the company would have been if the divestiture had occurred at March 31, 2005 or at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
 
The description of the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements of MeadWestvaco contained herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the unaudited proforma consolidated financial statements of MeadWestvaco.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Introduction
 
The following unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements give effect to the disposition of the printing and writing paper businesses and related forestlands.
 
Effective April 30, 2005, MeadWestvaco Corporation ("MeadWestvaco" or the "company" or "Seller") completed the sale, through a combination of asset and stock transfers, of its printing and writing papers business (the "Business"), which consists primarily of mills located in Chillicothe, Ohio; Escanaba, Michigan; Luke, Maryland; Rumford, Maine; and Wickliffe, Kentucky, and approximately 900,000 acres of forestlands in Illinois, Kentucky, Michigan, Missouri, Ohio and Tennessee, which provide wood to these mills (the "Forestlands"), to Escanaba Timber LLC (formerly Maple Acquisition LLC) ("Escanaba Timber" or "Purchaser"), a Delaware limited liability company. In consideration for the sale of the Business and the Forestlands, the Purchaser made a cash payment of $2.22 billion (subject to certain adjustments), and the Seller also received $100 million in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured payable-in-kind promissory notes (fair value of $75 million) of a subsidiary of the purchaser. The promissory notes are floating rate notes that will bear interest at a rate of six-month LIBOR plus 700 basis points, which interest shall be payable-in-kind until maturity (8.5 years from the date of issuance) and shall compound semi-annually.
 
The unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of operations for the quarters ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 and for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 are based on the historical consolidated statements of operations, and give effect to the disposition transaction as if it had occurred at the beginning of the earliest period presented. The unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet is based on the historical balance sheet as of March 31, 2005, and gives effect to the disposition transaction as if it had occurred on March 31, 2005.
 
The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements presented below are based on the assumptions and adjustments described in the accompanying notes and do not reflect any adjustments for non-recurring items or changes in operating strategies arising as a result of the disposition. The unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of operations are presented for illustrative purposes and do not purport to represent what results of operations actually would have been if the events described above had occurred as of the dates indicated or what such results would be for any future periods. The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements, and the accompanying notes, should be read in conjunction with the company's historical consolidated financial statements and related notes and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as of December 31, 2004 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as of March 31, 2005.
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements.
1.
Basis of Pro Forma Presentation
 
These unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of operations for the quarters ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 and for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, are based on the historical consolidated statements of operations, and give effect to the disposition transaction as if it had occurred at the beginning of the earliest period presented. The unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet is based on the historical balance sheet as of March 31, 2005, and gives effect to the disposition transaction as if it had occurred on March 31, 2005.
 
These unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements are based on the assumptions and adjustments described in the accompanying notes and do not reflect any adjustments for non-recurring items or changes in operating strategies arising as a result of the disposition. The unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of operations are presented for illustrative purposes and do not purport to represent what our results of operations actually would have been if the events described above had occurred as of the dates indicated or what such results would be for any future periods. The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements, and the accompanying notes, should be read in conjunction with the company's historical consolidated financial statements and related notes and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as of December 31, 2004 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as of March 31, 2005.
 
2.
Pro Forma Adjustments
 
Pro forma adjustments to the consolidated statements of operations and consolidated balance sheet are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


