FILE:MWV/MWV-8K-20050228104004.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On February 22, 2005, the Compensation and Organization Development Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee") of MeadWestvaco Corporation established criteria for awards under the company's Annual and Long-term Incentive Plan (approved by the company's shareholders on February 27, 2001 and amended and restated as of February 26, 2002, the "Incentive Plan") and the company's Restricted Stock Plan (approved by the company's shareholders on April 25, 1996, the "Restricted Stock Plan").
 
Under the Annual portion of the Incentive Plan, the Committee established the following performance objectives and assigned the weightings set forth below.
 
 
The minimum payout under the Annual portion of the Incentive Plan for the 2005 calendar year is determined by plan formula and could be 0% of the participant's target. The maximum award possible under the Annual portion of the Incentive Plan is 200% of the participant's target payout. The individual annual target amount for each of our senior executive officers ranges from 55-110% of salary, which amount is payable in a lump sum.
 
Under the Long-Term portion of the Incentive Plan and the Restricted Stock Plan, the Committee established a three year performance period beginning January 1, 2005 and ending December 31, 2007 (the "Performance Period"), with the following performance objectives and assigned the weightings set forth below.
 
 
This award, including restricted stock, is subject to (i) a three-year vesting restriction expiring on the third anniversary of the Grant Date and (ii) the satisfaction of the performance objectives during the Performance Period. The minimum payout under the Long-Term portion of the Incentive Plan is zero. If threshold criteria are achieved, payment can be 50% of the participant's target. The maximum award possible under the Long-Term portion of the Incentive
Plan is 150% of the participant's target payout. The total potential Long-Term Award would be payable one-third in cash (under the Long-Term portion of the Incentive Plan) and two-thirds in restricted stock valued at February 22, 2005 (the "Grant Date" and granted under the Restricted Stock Plan using the Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement filed as an Exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K). The individual aggregate long-term target amounts for our senior executive officers range from 150-450% of salary. Awards (including cash and stock portions) are subject to Committee review and exercise of negative discretion. Awards would be payable in 2008.
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
On February 22, 2005, you were granted an award of shares of MeadWestvaco Corporation (the "Company") common stock, which represents a target equity award assuming certain performance levels by the Company. These shares are restricted and will become fully vested upon the third anniversary of the award date, subject to the Company's satisfactory completion of performance objectives designated by the Compensation and Organization Development Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors of the Company.
            
 
The current total value of the award is $.
                        
 
The award is subject to the following restrictions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The determination whether theses objectives have been satisfied shall be made by the Committee in its sole discretion. Depending on the level of performance achieved, all or a portion of your award may be adjusted to reflect actual performance achieved.
 
 
 
For this purpose, but subject to more specific definitions provided in the Plan:
 
"" generally means (x) involuntary actual termination of employment, absent cause, or (y) constructive termination (e.g., material reduction in
Qualifying Termination
position and duties, relocation, reduction in base salary and other reductions in benefit or compensation opportunities as set forth in the MeadWestvaco Restricted Stock Plan, as amended) within two-years following a "Change of Control" (other than a "Merger of Equals").
 
generally means (A) an acquisition of 20% of stock or voting rights, (B) a contested change in a majority of the Company's board or (C) consummation of certain business combinations (e.g., mergers or asset sales) unless (i) 60% or more of the stock and voting rights are retained by Company; (ii) a majority of the surviving company board were members of the Company's board, and (iii) no new shareholder owns 20% or more of the stock of the resulting corporation, or (D) shareholder approval of a complete liquidation of the Company.
Change of Control"
 
" generally means a business combination which during the first year after the combination, (A) at least 50% of the members of the continuing board were members of the Company's board (B) the CEO position in the surviving company is occupied by an employee of the Company before the combination , (C) a majority of the leadership positions reporting directly to the CEO of the surviving company are occupied by individuals employed by the Company before the business combination.
"Merger of Equals
and
either
or
 
 
By your signature and the Company's signature below, you and the Company agree that this award is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the Company's Restricted Stock Plan, as amended.
 


