FILE:MWV/MWV-8K-20051219135738.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Upon the approval of the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors of MeadWestvaco Corporation ("MeadWestvaco") on December 15, 2005, MeadWestvaco entered into Amendment No. 1, dated as of December 1, 2005 (the "Amendment"), to the Credit Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2004, by and among MeadWestvaco, the Banks party thereto, The Bank of New York, as Administrative Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association and Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agents, Bank of America, N.A. and Barclays Bank PLC, as Documentation Agents, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Trust Company, ING Capital LLC, UBS AG, Stamford Branch and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Managing Agents, and Commerzbank AG, New York and Grand Cayman Branches, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, SunTrust Bank and William Street Commitment Corporation, as Co-Agents (the "Agreement").
 
MeadWestvaco has had, and from time to time expects to continue to have, various banking and financial advisory relationships with the several lenders under the facility.
 
Pursuant to the Amendment, among other things, the Agreement was amended to reduce the aggregate committed availability under the credit facility from $1 billion to $750 million. The maturity date for the credit facility has been extended from December 1, 2009 to December 1, 2010. In addition, the price charged for both drawn and undrawn amounts under the facility has been reduced as set forth in the amendment.
 
The Amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The description of the Amendment contained herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amendment.
 
 
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1 Amendment No. 1, dated as of December 1, 2005, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2004, by and among MeadWestvaco Corporation, the Banks party thereto, The Bank of New York, as Administrative Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association and Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agents, Bank of America, N.A. and Barclays Bank PLC, as Documentation Agents, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Trust Company, ING Capital LLC, UBS AG, Stamford Branch and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Managing Agents, and Commerzbank AG, New York and Grand Cayman Branches, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, SunTrust Bank and William Street Commitment Corporation, as Co-Agents.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
AMENDMENT NO. 1 (this ""), dated as of December 1, 2005, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2004, by and among MeadWestvaco Corporation, a Delaware corporation, the Banks party thereto, The Bank of New York, as Administrative Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association and Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agents, Bank of America, N.A. and Barclays Bank PLC, as Documentation Agents, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Trust Company, ING Capital LLC, UBS AG, Stamford Branch and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Managing Agents, and Commerzbank AG, New York and Grand Cayman Branches, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, SunTrust Bank and William Street Commitment Corporation, as Co-Agents, (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "").
Amendment
Credit Agreement
 
 
I. The parties hereto desire to amend the Credit Agreement to reduce the aggregate Commitments, extend the Maturity Date, and change the pricing, all to the extent set forth herein and subject to the terms and conditions hereof.
 
II. Unless the context otherwise requires, capitalized terms used herein and not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Credit Agreement.
 
Accordingly, in consideration of the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
1. The first paragraph and the table appearing in the defined term "Applicable Percentage" contained in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement are hereby amended and restated in their entirety as follows:
 
"Applicable Percentage" means (i) with respect to Committed Euro-Dollar Borrowings, Committed Alternate Currency Borrowings, Swingline Loans and the fee referred to in Section 2.8(c)(i), at all times during which the applicable Pricing Level set forth below is in effect, the percentage set forth below for such Pricing Level under the heading "Applicable Percentage and LC Fee", (ii) with respect to the fee referred to in Section 2.8(a), at all times during which the applicable Pricing Level set forth below is in effect, the percentage set forth below for such Pricing Level under the heading "Facility Fee Rate", and (iii) with respect to the fee referred to in Section 2.8(b), at all times during which the applicable Pricing Level set forth below is in effect, the percentage set forth below for such Pricing Level under the heading "Utilization Fee Rate":
 
2. The defined term "Commitment" contained in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the word "hereof" contained therein and inserting in its place the words "to Amendment No. 1 to this Credit Agreement".
 
3. The defined term "Maturity Date" contained in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the date "December 1, 2009" contained therein and inserting in its place the date "December 1, 2010".
 
4. Section 2.8(b) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the percentage "0.125%" appearing therein and inserting the words "the Applicable Percentage" in its place.
 
5. Paragraphs 1 through 4 hereof shall not be effective unless and until the Administrative Agent shall have received from each Person listed on the signature pages hereto either (a) a counterpart of this Amendment signed on behalf of such Person or (b) written evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include facsimile transmission of a signed signature page of this Amendment) that such Person has signed a counterpart of this Amendment.
 
6. The Borrower hereby (i) reaffirms and admits the validity and enforceability of each Loan Document and its obligations thereunder, and agrees and admits that it has no defense to or offset against any such obligation, and (ii) represents and warrants that no Default has occurred and is continuing and that all of the representations and warranties contained in the Loan Documents are true and correct, except as the context thereof otherwise requires and except for those representations and warranties which by their terms or by necessary implication are expressly limited to a state of facts existing at a time prior to the date hereof, or such other matters relating thereto as are identified in a writing to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and are satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders.
 
7. This Amendment may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures hereto were upon the same instrument. This Amendment constitutes the entire agreement and understanding among the parties hereto and supersedes any and all prior agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof.
 
8. Each Loan Document shall in all other respects remain in full force and effect.
 
9. THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment No. 1 to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


