FILE:MWV/MWV-8K-20051026153437.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
On October 25, 2005, the Board of Directors of MeadWestvaco Corporation elected Vice Admiral Edward M. Straw a member of the Board of Directors of the corporation. Mr. Straw will serve as a member of the Audit Committee and the Committee on Safety, Health and the Environment. Mr. Straw is not related to any (i) director or executive officer of the company, (ii) persons nominated or chosen by the company to become directors or executive officers, (iii) beneficial owner of more than 5% of the company's securities, or (iv) to any immediate family members of any such persons. There are no transactions, or series of similar transactions, or any currently proposed transactions, or series of similar transactions, to which the Company is to be a party, in which the amount involved exceeds $60,000, and in which Mr. Straw had, or will have, a direct or indirect material interest.
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the News Release announcing the election of Vice Admiral Edward M. Straw to the Board of Directors of the corporation.
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
STAMFORD, CONN., October 26, 2005 - MeadWestvaco Corporation (NYSE: MWV) today announced the appointment of Edward M. Straw, former president of Global Operations for Este Lauder Companies and retired three-star Admiral, to the company's Board of Directors, effective October 25, 2005.
 
During his tenure at Este Lauder Companies, Mr. Straw oversaw research and development, package engineering, global sourcing, manufacturing, distribution, inventory management, quality assurance, security and information systems. Prior to joining the Este Lauder Companies, he served as senior vice president, Global Supply Chain and Manufacturing at Compaq Computer Corporation, and as president of Ryder Integrated Logistics, Inc.
 
Prior to joining the private sector, Mr. Straw had a distinguished 35-year career in the U.S. Navy, retiring as a three-star admiral in 1996. During his military service, he was chief executive officer of the Defense Logistics Agency, the largest military logistics command supporting the American armed forces.
 
"We are very pleased to welcome Ed to the MeadWestvaco board," said John A. Luke, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer of MeadWestvaco. "Ed's extensive background and knowledge of a consumer packaging business, as well as his experience in global manufacturing, logistics and distribution, will be a great asset to our company. I am confident that his insight and contributions will benefit MeadWestvaco as we strive for global leadership in packaging solutions and capture growth opportunities in emerging markets around the world."
 
Mr. Straw holds a Master of Business Administration degree from George Washington University and a Bachelor of Science degree from the U.S. Naval Academy. He is also a graduate of the National War College.
 
MeadWestvaco, headquartered in Stamford, Conn., is a global packaging company that delivers high-value packaging solutions and products to the world's most recognized companies in the food and beverage, media and entertainment, personal care, cosmetic and healthcare industries. The company also has market-leading positions in its Consumer & Office Products, Specialty Chemicals and Specialty Papers businesses. MeadWestvaco, with operations in more than 29 countries, has been selected for the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, and manages all of its forestlands in accordance with internationally recognized forest certification standards. For more information, please visit www.meadwestvaco.com.


