FILE:MWV/MWV-8K-20050118100115.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See ITEM 7.01 below.
 
 
On January 18, 2005, MeadWestvaco Corporation issued a news release and conducted a conference call announcing that it has reached a definitive agreement to sell its Papers business and associated assets. A copy of the Company's news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and other presentation materials used in the conference call are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and Exhibit 99.3.
 
The information furnished under Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, Exhibit 99.2, and Exhibit 99.3, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Stamford, Conn., January 18, 2005  MeadWestvaco Corporation (NYSE: MWV) today announced that it has reached a definitive agreement to sell its Papers business and associated assets for $2.3 billion to a new company controlled by Cerberus Capital Management L.P., a private, New York-based investment firm.
 
"This transaction marks an important strategic step for MeadWestvaco," said John A. Luke, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "It makes us a more focused company, able to deliver stronger, more consistent financial returns. Immediately, the sale allows us to reduce the company's debt, return value to shareholders and position the company for profitable growth. It also enables us to concentrate more of our resources on capturing growth opportunities in the global packaging markets.
 
"This sale monetizes the value of our efforts to create the leading Coated Papers franchise in North America," Mr. Luke continued. "Over the last several years, we have reduced costs and gained market share in a challenging economic environment, and this sale creates a new Papers business that is well positioned to compete as a stand-alone company."
 
After the closing, MeadWestvaco will have more than $6.0 billion in annual revenues, with about three-quarters coming from the packaging business and about one-third coming from international sources, and approximately 24,000 employees. The company will focus on expanding its higher margin packaging business geographically by leveraging its strong positions in North America and Europe to penetrate growth markets in Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America. Additionally, the company will continue to benefit from strong market positions in Consumer and Office Products, Specialty Chemicals and Specialty Papers.
 
The sale is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals and purchaser's financing, and is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2005.
 
MeadWestvaco expects the transaction to result in after-tax net proceeds of approximately $2.1 billion at closing, which it will use to improve its overall capital structure. The company expects to use approximately $900 million to $1.1 billion of the proceeds to pay down debt and between $500 million and $700 million to return value to shareholders through stock repurchases. At the completion of the capital restructuring, the company expects its debt to capital ratio to be 40 percent or better. The remaining cash will be available either for strategic growth opportunities or to further pay down debt and return value to shareholders.
 
MeadWestvaco estimates that the transaction will result in a one-time after-tax accounting loss of between $650 and $675 million, the majority of which will be recorded in the fourth quarter of 2004. In addition, the Papers business operating results will be reported as discontinued operations in MeadWestvaco's consolidated financial statements beginning in the first quarter of 2005. The Papers business has approximately $2.3 billion in annual sales.
 
Under the terms of the agreement, the new company will acquire MeadWestvaco's Papers business, which consists primarily of mills located in Chillicothe, Ohio; Escanaba, Michigan; Luke, Maryland; Rumford, Maine; and Wickliffe, Kentucky. These mills have a combined annual capacity of approximately 2.05 million tons of coated paper, 290,000 tons of carbonless paper and 110,000 tons of uncoated paper.
 
The sale also includes approximately 900,000 acres of forestlands in Illinois, Kentucky, Michigan, Missouri, Ohio and Tennessee, which provide wood to these mills. After the sale of the Papers business, MeadWestvaco will own approximately 1.2 million acres of forestland.
 
The acquiring company will be privately held and headquartered in Dayton, Ohio, with the current Papers management team continuing to lead the business. Peter H. Vogel, Jr., current president of MeadWestvaco's Papers Group, will become chief executive officer of the new company. Approximately 6,300 employees of the Papers business are expected to join the new company, including corporate staff who have been exclusively dedicated to supporting that business.
 
"Separation from MeadWestvaco gives the Papers business a tremendous opportunity to build on our leading position with customers in the marketplace," said Mr. Vogel. "In Cerberus, we have a strong financial partner committed to the business. We have an outstanding group of employees, who together have a great opportunity to make us successful."
 
Goldman, Sachs & Co. and UBS Investment Bank are acting as financial advisors to MeadWestvaco. Greenhill & Co. LLC provided the board of directors of MeadWestvaco with a fairness opinion. MeadWestvaco was represented by the law firm of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz.
 
Conference Call
 
MeadWestvaco is hosting a conference call to discuss the sale of its Papers Group today at 10 a.m. (ET), with access available via the Internet on the company's website and telephone. To access via the Internet, go to the company's home page at www.meadwestvaco.com and access the link to Investor Information, then Financial Calendar, and look for the link to the webcast. Investors may participate in the live conference call by dialing 1 (888) 423-3280 (toll-free domestic) or 1 (612) 332-0335 (international); passcode: MeadWestvaco. Please call to register at least 10 minutes before
 
 
the conference call begins. A replay of the call will be available for two weeks via telephone starting at 1:30 p.m. (ET) on January 18 and can be accessed at 1 (800) 475-6701 (toll-free domestic) or 1 (320) 365-3844 (international); access code: 766302.
 
About MeadWestvaco
 
MeadWestvaco Corporation, headquartered in Stamford, Conn., is a leading global producer of packaging, coated and specialty papers, consumer and office products, and specialty chemicals. The company operates in 29 countries and serves customers in nearly 100 nations, and has been recognized for economic, social and environmental sustainability through selection for the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes. MeadWestvaco manages strategically located forestlands according to stringent environmental standards and in conformity with the Sustainable Forestry Initiative. For more information, visit www.meadwestvaco.com.
 
About Cerberus Capital Management, L. P.
 
Headquartered in New York, Cerberus Capital Management, L.P. and its affiliated entities manage funds and accounts with capital in excess of $14 billion.
 
Certain statements in this document and elsewhere by management of the company that are neither reported financial results nor other historical information are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such information includes, without limitation, the business outlook, assessment of market conditions, anticipated financial and operating results, strategies, future plans, contingencies and contemplated transactions of the company. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause or contribute to actual results of company operations, or the performance or achievements of each company, or industry results, to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In addition to any such risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed elsewhere herein, risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from those expressed or implied for the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, events or circumstances which affect the ability of MeadWestvaco to realize improvements in operating earnings and cash flow expected from the company's productivity initiative; competitive pricing for the company's products; changes in raw materials pricing; energy and other costs; fluctuations in demand and changes in production capacities; changes to economic growth in the United States and international economies; government policies and regulations, including, but not limited to those affecting the environment and the tobacco industry; adverse results in current or future litigation, currency movements and other risk factors discussed in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and in other filings made from time to time with the SEC. MeadWestvaco undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Investors are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures made on related subjects in the company's reports filed with the SEC.
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
TITLE SLIDE
 
:
MARK POMERLEAU
 
SLIDE 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
With me today are:
 
 
 
 
I'd now like to turn the call over to John.
 
:
JOHN LUKE
 
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
 
SLIDE 3
 
As Mark indicated, this morning we announced an agreement to sell our Papers business to Cerberus Capital Management for proceeds of $2.3 billion. In a few minutes Mark Rajkowski will provide details on the terms of the agreement. Before turning to Mark, I will focus on what this transaction means to us strategically.
 
In short, this sale is a transformational event for MeadWestvaco. First, it will make us a more focused company, able to deliver stronger, more consistent financial returns, and will free us up to concentrate our resources on capturing the profitable growth opportunities present in the global packaging markets. When this transaction is closed, MeadWestvaco will have greater global balance, increased stability of earnings and cash-flows, and a stronger balance sheet.
 
Second, the agreement marks the culmination of the achievement of our commitment to build the leading Coated Papers business in North America. Over almost three years, in very challenging economic and industry conditions, we have enhanced the value of our Papers business by reducing costs and by gaining market share. This sale enables us to monetize this effort and, at the same time, positions the Papers business to compete as a stand-alone company.
 
SLIDE 4
 
Now that we have done what we set out to do in our Papers Group, we will concentrate our attention on the businesses where we have the greatest opportunities to generate higher and more consistent returns  doing so through innovation, customer focus and continued productivity.
 
SLIDE 5
 
Very importantly, we intend to capitalize globally on our leadership position in differentiated, value-added packaging solutions  and our attractive Consumer & Office Products and Specialty Papers and Chemicals businesses.
 
The fundamentals of these markets are strong in terms of size, rate of growth and profit potential  particularly in
 
emerging markets in Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe  and we are determined to capitalize on this opportunity.
 
SLIDE 6
 
Looking specifically at packaging, we are uniquely positioned to compete across the full spectrum of the value chain, with demonstrated excellence in paperboard production; world-class design and converting operations; and a strong position in integrated packaging systems.
 
As we go forward, we will be focused more sharply than ever on the worldwide packaging marketplace. We will have over $6 billion in annual revenue, roughly three-quarters of which will come from packaging following the completion of this transaction. Moreover, about one-third of our revenue will come from international markets, with significant opportunities to increase that further.
 
I'll now turn the floor over to Mark Rajkowski for a review of the financial details of the transaction we announced this morning.
 
:
MARK RAJKOWSKI
 
SLIDE 7
 
Thanks, John. The sale of our Papers business helps us accomplish several goals. First and foremost, it increases the return profile of the company and will accelerate achieving our target of above cost-of-capital returns. Secondly, it improves the stability of our earnings and cash-flow by removing our most asset intensive and cyclical business. And finally, this transaction will also enable us to accelerate our debt paydown and strengthen our balance sheet.
 
Over the past several months, we've held discussions with a number of strategic and financial buyers  we are convinced that this is the right deal at the right time for both companies. The sale creates a financially sound Papers business that's positioned to compete through renewed focus, and delivers substantial cash to us now.
 
Simply put, through this transaction, MeadWestvaco will become a much stronger and more focused company, with substantial financial flexibility to pursue opportunities that will increase returns for our shareholders.
 
I'll now briefly discuss the financial impact of today's announcement.
 
SLIDE 8
 
The transaction consists of the sale of substantially all of the assets and related liabilities of our Papers business for $2.3 billion in cash.
 
Included in the agreement are all 5 of our printing- and writing-paper mills, with a combined capacity of 2 million tons per year of coated paper and almost 300 thousand tons per year of carbonless paper.
 
The agreement also includes approximately 900 thousand acres of forestland that supply wood to these mills. After the sale of the Papers business, MeadWestvaco will own approximately 1.2 million acres of forestland.
 
SLIDE 9
 
The after-tax cash proceeds from the transaction are expected to be approximately $2.1 billion, which will be used primarily to improve our overall capital structure as follows:
 
 
 
 
Upon completion of our capital restructuring, we expect to achieve a debt-to-capital ratio of 40 percent or better.
 
The transaction is expected to result in a one-time after-tax accounting loss of between $650 and $675 million, the
 
majority of which we expect will be recorded in the fourth quarter 2004. This includes approximately $530 million for goodwill and other asset step-up associated with the Papers business, recorded in purchase accounting at the time of the MeadWestvaco merger.
 
 
SLIDE 10
 
As you know, we will report our fourth quarter results on January 31
st
, at which time, we will review our results in detail and give you an update on our key markets. As of today, we have not yet finished closing our books for the year, and we're still in the process of determining the amount of the charge related to this transaction to be recorded in the fourth quarter.
 
I can tell you that, with regard to the fourth quarter, we expect to report that each of our business segments  Packaging, Papers, Consumer and Office Products and
 
Specialty Chemicals  will show operating results as good as, or better than, the fourth quarter of 2003. Moreover, demand during the fourth quarter remained firm in each of our key markets, albeit at a seasonally lower level. However, the results of operations in the quarter for the Papers segment were challenged for all the reasons we indicated at the end of last quarter  seasonality, scheduled maintenance, higher raw material costs as well as lower available inventories. In addition to these factors during the quarter, our Papers facilities simply did not operate that well. Before charges related to this deal, we expect to report a small loss for the Papers segment, despite the fact that market conditions remained strong.
 
Consequently, as a result of the performance in our Papers segment, we expect to report overall fourth quarter operating results for the company  before gains on forestlands, charges related to restructuring and charges related to this
 
transaction  in the range of 18 to 23 cents per share. We will, of course, provide greater detail on January 31
st
.
 
SLIDE 11
 
As part of the sale of our Papers business, we are also in the process of thoroughly examining our corporate infrastructure, and will take actions to reduce our overhead costs in line with the size and structure of our new company going forward. We expect to take additional charges in connection with these actions. At this stage, we don't know the precise amount or timing of the charges; however, we expect to incur them in 2005 and 2006, and we expect that the cash charges associated with these actions will not exceed $25 million. We will share information as it becomes available.
 
Beginning in the first quarter of 2005, the results of operations for the Papers business will be reported as
 
discontinued operations, and all prior periods will be restated for comparative purposes.
 
The closing of the deal is likely to be in the second quarter of this year.
 
I'll now turn the call over to Jim Buzzard who will discuss some of the immediate initiatives we are undertaking to ensure we execute on our strategy.
 
:
JIM BUZZARD
 
SLIDE 12
 
Thanks, Mark.
 
As John indicated earlier, after the sale of our Papers business is completed, we will be a leading global packaging business  able to seize the opportunity to accelerate our initiatives to differentiate and win in our chosen market segments.
 
SLIDE 13
 
Our consumer and office products and specialty businesses also will greatly benefit from our sharpened focus. As many of you know, these businesses already are leaders within their respective markets. Their success proves that the combination of continuous innovation and focused growth is a good formula for winning in any marketplace.
 
SLIDE 14
 
As we capitalize on our unique combination of assets and capabilities to achieve our goals, we will remain disciplined in our investment decisions; highly focused on increasing return on capital; and dedicated to continuing to deliver on our productivity commitments. We are tackling this in three phases:
 
First, we will continue to aggressively attack our cost structure and better manage our resources through our previously announced productivity initiatives. We are on track toward achieving the two-year, $500 million goal we announced a year ago. We will complete this at the end of 2005  on time and on target.
 
Second, as Mark noted earlier, we have already begun to address our overall cost structure in light of the sale of the Papers business. We will ensure that our corporate infrastructure is right for the new business  not only in terms of size but also efficiency and effectiveness.
 
And as a third phase, we have begun to outline the program that will succeed the current initiative which will be completed at the end of this year. This new program will include initiatives to reduce costs across our global business functions, optimize our supply chain, further reduce G&A costs, and achieve operational excellence across our operating platform.
 
I'd like to emphasis the fact that the bulk of our productivity work has been underway for some time, and that it is independent of the sale of our Papers business. For us, this is the way in which we operate and will continue to run our business.
 
We look forward to sharing information on our progress toward these initiatives, and we will continue to report on them quarterly.
 
Back to you, John.
 
:
JOHN LUKE
 
Thanks, Jim.
 
SLIDE 15
 
In summary, we believe we have a winning formula for future growth that's market focused and rooted in our core strengths. Over the coming year we look forward to continuing to share with you a more in-depth look at our capabilities, the opportunities before us  and our plans to capitalize on those opportunities.
 
SLIDE 16
 
I would now like to open the floor to your questions.
 
MARK POMERLEAU (Following Q&A)
 
That concludes the Q&A portion of our call. Before we close, I'll remind you that slides which accompanied the presentation are on our website.
 
SLIDE 17
 
They provide color and clarity and include a GAAP reconciliation to the 4Q range of estimated results that we referred to in the call.
 
A replay of this call will be available beginning at 1:30PM EST today and continue for the next two weeks. You can access the call at 800-475-6701 access code 766302. The recorded call is also available on our website at MeadWestvaco.com.
 
Thank you for joining us.
 

 
Exhibit 99.3
A Global Packaging Company
John A. Luke, Jr.
Chairman and CEO
James A. Buzzard
President
E. Mark Rajkowski
Senior Vice President and CFO
January 18, 2005
 
Forward-Looking Statement
Certain statements in this document and elsewhere by management of the company that are neither reported financial results nor other historical information are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such information includes, without limitation, the business outlook, assessment of market conditions, anticipated financial and operating results, strategies, future plans, contingencies and contemplated transactions of the company. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause or contribute to actual results of company operations, or the performance or achievements of each company, or industry results, to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In addition to any such risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed elsewhere herein, risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from those expressed or implied for the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, events or circumstances which affect the ability of MeadWestvaco to realize improvements in operating earnings and cash flow expected from the company's productivity initiative; competitive pricing for the company's products; changes in raw materials pricing; energy and other costs; fluctuations in demand and changes in production capacities; changes to economic growth in the United States and international economies; government policies and regulations, including, but not limited to those affecting the environment and the tobacco industry; adverse results in current or future litigation, currency movements and other risk factors discussed in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and in other filings made from time to time with the SEC. MeadWestvaco undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Investors are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures made on related subjects in the company's reports filed with the SEC.
2
 
Strategic Rationale
A focused global packaging company
Stronger, more consistent financial returns Frees up company to pursue profitable growth opportunities in global packaging markets Stronger balance sheet and greater financial flexibility
More competitive Papers business
Productivity improvements; market-share gains
Enables MWV to monetize improved business
Creates financially sound, competitive stand-alone Papers company
3
 
Focused, more profitable company Increased earnings stability Enhanced returns through innovation, customer focus, productivity 4
Transforming The Portfolio
Papers
28%
Specialty Chemicals
5%
Consumer & Office Products
13%
54%
Sales $8 Bn
Packaging
Consumer & Office Products
Specialty Chemicals
19%
7%
74%
Packaging
Sales $6 Bn +
4
 
Capitalize on Our Strengths
Global leadership position in differentiated, value-added packaging
Attractive Consumer & Office Products, Specialty Chemicals and Specialty Papers businesses
Identifiable, higher margin growth opportunities
Emerging markets  Asia, Latin America, Eastern Europe
Rewards for innovative solution
5
 
Paperboard
Packaging Value Chain Mix
2004
Packaging Systems
18%
Design & Services
4%
Converting
21%
57%
6
 
Substantial cash to MWV
Financially sound Papers company
Transaction: Overview
Achieves several goals:
Increased return profile
Improved earnings, cash-flow stability Accelerated debt paydown Strengthened balance sheet
The right deal at the right time
7
 
5 mills; 6,300 employees Coated paper = 2 mm tons/year Carbonless paper = 290,000 tons/year Forestlands = 900,000 acres
Transaction: Summary
Total value: $2.3 billion cash upon closing
Included in the sale:
8
 
Majority will be recorded in 4Q04 $530 million for goodwill and other asset step-up
Transaction: Financial Details
Approximately $2.1 billion cash after-tax: $900 million$1.1 billion: Debt pay down $500$700 million: Share repurchase Remainder:
Strategic growth opportunities
Further debt reduction/returns to shareholders
Debt to capital ratio of 40% or better upon completion of capital restructuring After-tax accounting loss: $650$675 million
9
 
*Operating EPS excludes gains on forestland, restructuring charges, and accounting loss related to the Papers business. See GAAP reconciliation on slide 17.
Financial Impact: 4Q04
Overall MWV 4Q04 segment operating results improved over 4Q03 Demand remained firm in each of our key markets
Papers business 4Q04 results impacted by previously announcedfactors:
Seasonality
Scheduled maintenance Higher raw material costs Sold-out inventories
Expect 4Q04 operating EPS* of $0.18 to $0.23
Details on 4Q04 provided on January 31 conference call
10
 
Report Papers business as discontinued operations in 1Q05
Closing expected 2Q05
Financial Impact
Overhead costs reduced for new size and structure
Corporate overhead reductions will result in additional restructuring charges in 2005 and 2006
Cash charges not to exceed $25 million
11
 
Target growth opportunities in emerging markets
Solid Global Packaging Business
Asia
9%
Europe
22%
Americas
14%
55%
Sales $4 Billion +
U.S.
Leverage strong positions in N.A. and Europe
12
 
Asphalt
Sales In Complementary Businesses
Consumer & Office Products
Time Management & Office Products
24%
Envelope Products
30%
38%
School & Consumer Products
Other
8%
Sales $1 Billion +
Specialty Chemicals
Ink Resins
21%
Other Markets
40%
11%
28%
Automotive
Sales $352 Million
13
 
Achieving Our Goals
Completion of ongoing productivity initiatives $500 million goal
On track for end of 2005 target
Align overhead structure with new business after closing
Transformation of organizational structure
14
 
Large global growth opportunities
Strong capabilities & platform that can be leveraged Leadership in growing markets Rewards for innovative solutions Consistent returns
Summary:
A Winning Formula for Future Growth
15
 
Questions
17
 
4Q04: Range of Estimated Results Reconciliation to GAAP
For the quarter ended
December 31, 2004
Low End High End
Range Range
Expected net income per share before unusual items $.18 $.23
Add: Gains on forestland sales .09 .09
Less: Restructuring charges .12 .12
Less: Charges related to the Paper business disposition 2.70 2.82
Expected net loss per share (GAAP) $ (2.55) $ (2.62)
Presented above is the reconciliation of the low and high ends of the range for the Company's non-GAAP expected fourth quarter net income per share before unusual items to GAAP net loss per share. The company has presented this non-GAAP measures as it believes that this presentation is more indicative of the fourth quarter operating results.
17
 
A Global Packaging Company
January 18, 2005


