FILE:MWV/MWV-8K-20061005171143.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
On October 5, 2006, MeadWestvaco issued a news release announcing the appointment of James M. Kilts to the company's Board of Directors. He will be formally elected at the October 24, 2006 board meeting at which time his committee appointments will be determined. A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information is being furnished under Item 5.02 "Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers" of Form 8-K. Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 5, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
RICHMOND, VA., October 5, 2006  MeadWestvaco Corporation (NYSE: MWV) today announced that James M. Kilts, 58, has been named to MeadWestvaco's Board of Directors. He will be formally elected at the October 2006 board meeting.
Mr. Kilts, who is a founding partner with Centerview Partners, New York, was chairman, president and chief executive officer of the Gillette Company, Boston, which joined with The Procter & Gamble Company last year in the largest merger ever in the consumer products sector. As a vice chairman of Procter & Gamble, he then oversaw the consolidation of the Gillette and Procter & Gamble businesses. Before joining Gillette, Mr. Kilts was president and chief executive officer of Nabisco, and prior to that he was head of Kraft Foods, and later, the worldwide food business of Altria. He started his career with General Foods Corporation.
"I am extremely pleased to have someone of Jim's caliber and capabilities join the board of MeadWestvaco," said John A. Luke, Jr., MeadWestvaco's chairman and chief executive officer. "His deep understanding of the global consumer products business will be a tremendous asset as we work to become the packaging provider of choice to the world's most recognized consumer brands."
"MeadWestvaco is a global packaging leader," said Mr. Kilts. "I look forward to helping the company realize new possibilities for value creation in consumer markets worldwide."
In addition to MeadWestvaco, Mr. Kilts is a member of the board of directors of The New York Times Company and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, and he serves as a member of Citigroup's International Advisory Board. He also serves on the board of trustees of Knox College and the University of Chicago, and is chairman of the Advisory Council of the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business.
Mr. Kilts is a graduate of Knox College in Galesburg, Illinois, and he earned a master of business administration degree from the University of Chicago.
MeadWestvaco is a global packaging company that delivers high-value packaging solutions and products to the world's most recognized companies in the food and beverage, media and entertainment, personal care, cosmetic and healthcare industries. The company also has market-leading positions in its Consumer & Office Products, Specialty Chemicals and Specialty Papers businesses. MeadWestvaco, with operations in more than 29 countries, has been selected for the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, and manages all of its forestlands in accordance with internationally recognized forest certification standards. For more information, please visit
www.meadwestvaco.com.


