FILE:MWV/MWV-8K-20060303155229.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
I. Action for Annual Incentives
On February 27, 2006, the Compensation and Organization Development Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee") of MeadWestvaco Corporation (the "Company") established criteria for annual incentive awards under the Company's 2005 Performance Incentive Plan (approved by the company's shareholders on April 25, 2005, the "Plan").
Under the annual portion of the Plan, the Committee established target objectives under the following performance criteria and assigned the weightings set forth below.
 
Payments under the annual incentive portion of the Plan for 2006 are subject to the additional requirement that the Company generate sufficient cash to cover dividends paid and capital needed to maintain equipment, and comply with safety and environmental standards.
The minimum payout under the annual incentive portion of the Plan for the 2006 calendar year is determined by plan formula and could be 0% of the participant's target. Payouts for performance below the target level will be based on the Company's proportional progress made toward the target. The maximum award possible under the annual incentive portion of the Plan is 200% of the participant's target. Individual annual target amounts for each of our senior executive officers ranges from 55-110% of base salary and are payable in a lump sum.
II. Action for Long-Term Incentive awards (performance based restricted stock units and non-qualified stock options)
A. Performance based restricted stock units
Under the long-term portion of the Plan, the Committee established a three-year performance period beginning January 1, 2006 and ending December 31, 2008 (the "Performance Period"), with the following performance objectives and assigned the weightings set forth below.
 
This long-term award, which is delivered in performance-based restricted stock units, is subject to (i) a three-year vesting restriction expiring on the third anniversary of the Grant Date and (ii) the satisfaction of the performance objectives during the Performance Period. The minimum payout under the long-term portion of the Plan is zero. Payouts for performance below the target level will be based on the Company's proportional progress made toward the target. The maximum award possible under the long-term portion of the Plan is 200% of the participant's target.
This potential long-term award is payable in performance based restricted stock units valued at February 27, 2006 (the "Grant Date") granted under the Plan using the Form of Award Agreement attached hereto and which is incorporated by reference herein and filed as Exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K. In recognition of the at-risk nature of long-term compensation, the individual aggregate long-term target awards, when combined with the non-qualified stock options grants for our senior executive officers range from 110%-450% of base salary. The performance based restricted stock units are subject to Committee review and exercise of negative discretion based on performance levels achieved. Awards would be payable in 2009.
99.1
B. Non-qualified Stock Options
The Committee also awarded non-qualified stock options covering shares issuable under the Plan subject to a three year pro rata vesting schedule, which will expire on the third anniversary of the Grant Date. Option awards were granted with an exercise price based on the fair market value of Company shares valued as of February 27, 2006 (the "Grant Date") and were granted under the Plan subject to the "Terms and Conditions  Stock Option Awards for 2006" attached hereto and which is incorporated by reference herein and filed as Exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
99.2
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
On February 27, 2006 (the ""), you were granted an award (the "") of up to restricted stock units, representing your potential equity award (subject to certain adjustments described herein) if the Company achieves its Stretch level performance goals. Your target equity award (assuming the Company achieves its Target level performance goals) is restricted stock units (the "") (subject to certain adjustments described herein). Each restricted stock unit subject to this Award represents the right to receive one share of MeadWestvaco Corporation (the "") common stock, $0.01 par value per share (the ""), subject to the conditions set forth in this written agreement (the "") and the Company's 2005 Performance Incentive Plan (the ""). Neither you nor any beneficiary or other person claiming under or through you shall have any right, title, interest, or privilege in or to any Shares allocated or reserved for the purpose of the Plan or subject to the Award except as to such Shares, if any, as shall have been issued to you hereunder. However, your Award is evidenced by this Agreement setting forth the terms and conditions attached to the Award as described below.
Award Date
Award
            
            
Target Units
Company
Shares
Agreement
Plan
The current total value of the award is $.
            
The award is subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to continued employment through the third anniversary of the Award Date, the vesting of your Award is contingent upon the Company achieving by the end of the three-year performance period beginning January 1, 2006 and ending on December 31, 2008 (the "") certain performance goals with respect to return on invested capital and revenue from new products, as approved by the Committee. The number of restricted stock units that vest will be determined in accordance with these goals.
Performance Period
In the event that the Company's performance falls below the Target level performance goals, the number of Vested Units shall be determined by linear interpolation, subject to Committee discretion. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in no event will more that 200% of the number of Target Units become vested.
Following the end of the Performance Period and the collection of relevant data necessary to determine the extent to which the performance goals have been satisfied, the Committee will determine: (a) the percentage of return on invested capital and revenue from new products that was achieved by the Company over the Performance Period; and (b) the percentage of the Award that vested as of the last day of the Performance Period as a result of such achievement. The Committee shall make these determinations in its sole discretion. To the extent required under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, the level of achievement of the performance goals shall be evidenced by the Committee's written certification. For the avoidance of doubt, any restricted stock units subject to this Award that do not vest in accordance with the forgoing shall expire without consideration at the end of the Performance Period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
transferred, assigned, pledged or otherwise encumbered or disposed of prior to the issuance of such Shares pursuant to Paragraph 3 above. The Company may cancel your Award if you attempt to assign or transfer it in a manner inconsistent with this Paragraph 4.
 
 
 
Unvested Units that become Vested Units under this Paragraph 5 shall not be delivered to the Participant (or Beneficiary, if applicable) in Shares, until after the close of the Performance Period, subject to the Company's satisfactory completion of performance objectives (set forth above) as approved by the Committee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
stock units as dividends, if any are declared, and shall be subject to the same restrictions and conditions as the restricted stock units subject to the Award with respect to which they were credited (including, but not limited to, the forfeiture provisions set forth in Paragraphs 1 and 5 above). Notwithstanding the foregoing, no such additional restricted stock units will be credited with respect to any dividend declared by the Company in connection with which the Award is adjusted pursuant to Section 4.1 of the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By your signature and the Company's signature below, you and the Company agree that this Award is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Company's 2005 Performance Incentive Plan.
 
 
 
Effective as of , the undersigned hereby irrevocably elects (the "") to defer receipt of certain shares of common stock (the "") of MeadWestvaco Corporation, (the "") related to the restricted stock units (the "") awarded under the MeadWestvaco Corporation 2005 Performance Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time (the "") and subject to the terms and conditions of your award agreement. This deferral shall be made in accordance with the terms and provisions outlined in this Election in the manner and amount set forth below.
                    
Election
Shares
Company
Award
Plan
In making this election, the following rules apply:
 
 
 
 
Manner of Distribution
In general, all Awards are payable in Shares; including any dividends that would be credited on such Shares prior to vesting and during any deferral period as provided in Paragraph 3 below. Subject to the terms and conditions of the award agreement and the Plan and applicable legal requirements, all of the Shares you are entitled to receive on the Settlement Date specified in this Election will be transferred to you on such Settlement Date.
Amount of the Deferral
I hereby irrevocably elect to defer distribution of % of the restricted stock units subject to the Award. [Note: Deferrals may only be made in 25% increments].
    
Duration of the Deferral
Distribution of that portion of the Award specified above shall be deferred until:
, 20 [enter any date after the third anniversary of the date the Award was granted], but in no event later than the termination of my employment with the Company.
                    
    
    
Terms and Conditions
By signing this form, you acknowledge your understanding and acceptance of the following:
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


