FILE:MWV/MWV-8K-20060428174056.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Compensation of Non-Employee Directors
Effective April 25, 2006, the compensation program for non-employee directors has been modified and the form and amount of compensation consist of the following components:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annual retainers are payable in a lump sum.
ITEM 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On April 25, 2006, at the 2006 Annual meeting of Stockholders of MeadWestvaco Corporation ("Company"), the stockholders approved two proposals to amended the Company's Certificate of Incorporation to provide for the annual election of directors and to remove the requirement that directors may only be removed prior to the expiration of his or her term if 75 percent of the voting shares outstanding vote in favor of the directors' removal. In accordance with the two proposals, Article VII of the Certificate of Incorporation has been revised to read as follows:
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances, the number of directors constituting the Whole Board shall be fixed from time to time exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board.
Unless and except to the extent that the By-Laws of the Corporation shall so require, the election of directors of the Corporation need not be by written ballot.
Until the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2009, the directors, other than those who may be elected by the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, shall be and are divided into classes. The directors elected at the annual meeting of stockholders held in 2004 shall serve for a term ending on the date of the annual meeting of
stockholders to be held in 2007; the directors elected at the annual meeting of stockholders held in 2005 shall serve for a term ending on the date of the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2008; and the directors elected at the annual meeting of stockholders held in 2006 shall serve for a term ending on the date of the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2009. Members of each class shall hold office until their successors shall have been duly elected and qualified. At each annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation commencing with the 2007 annual meeting, (1) directors elected to succeed those directors whose terms then expire shall be elected by a plurality vote of all votes cast at such meeting to hold office for a term expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders after their election, with each director to hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified, and (2) only if authorized by a resolution of the Board of Directors, directors may be elected to fill any vacancy on the Board of Directors, regardless of how such vacancy shall have been created.
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, and unless the Board of Directors otherwise determines, any vacancy resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause, and any newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors, may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, and any director so chosen shall hold office for the remainder of the term that was being served by the director whose absence creates the vacancy, or, in the case of a vacancy created by an increase in the number of directors, a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders, and in each case until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of authorized directors constituting the total number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Advance notice of stockholder nominations for the election of directors and of business to be brought by stockholders before any meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be given in the manner provided in the By-Laws.
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, any director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed from office at any time, by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class; provided, however, that, if a director's term was scheduled at the time of its commencement to extend beyond the next annual meeting of stockholders, such removal may only be for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75 percent of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class.
The amended Certificate of Incorporation reflecting the foregoing is filed as Exhibit 99.1.
In connection with the adoption of the above amendments to the Company's Certificate of Incorporation, on April 25, 2006, the Board of Directors adopted conforming changes to the Company's By-laws. Article II of the By-laws, Sections 2.1, 2.3 and 2.4 have been revised to read as follows:
SECTION 2.1.  The business and property of the Corporation shall be managed and controlled by the Board of
General Powers, Number, Qualifications and Term of Office.
Directors. The Board of Directors shall consist of a number of directors to be determined from time to time only by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors.
Until the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2009, the directors shall be and are divided into classes. The directors elected at the annual meeting of stockholders held in 2004 shall serve for a term ending on the date of the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2007; the directors elected at the annual meeting of stockholders held in 2005 shall serve for a term ending on the date of the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2008; and the directors elected at the annual meeting of stockholders held in 2006 shall serve for a term ending on the date of the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2009. At each annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation commencing with the 2007 annual meeting, directors elected to succeed those directors whose terms then expire shall hold office for a term expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders after their election. Each director of the Corporation shall hold office as provided above and until his or her successor shall have been elected and qualified.
SECTION 2.3. . Subject to Section 2.1 of this Article, directors shall be elected annually in the manner provided in these Bylaws. At each annual or special meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors, at which a quorum is present, the persons receiving the greatest number of votes shall be the directors. Any vacancies on the Board of Directors caused by death, removal, resignation or any other cause and any newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors, may be filled only by a majority of the directors then in office, even though less than a quorum, at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors, and any director so elected shall hold office for the remainder of the term that was being served by the director whose absence creates the vacancy, or, in the case of a vacancy created by an increase in the number of directors, a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders, and in each case until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified.
Election of Directors; Vacancies; New Directorships
SECTION 2.4. . Any director may be removed without cause, at any time, by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding shares of all classes and series of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, at a special meeting of stockholders duly called and held for the purpose or at an annual meeting of stockholders; provided, however, that, if a director's term was scheduled at the time of its commencement to extend beyond the next annual meeting of stockholders, such removal may only be for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75 percent of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding shares of all classes and series of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class.
Removal of Directors
The amended By-laws reflecting the foregoing is filed as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
MeadWestvaco Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, does hereby certify:
 
The name of the corporation (which is hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation") is:
The address of the Corporation's registered office in the State of Delaware is The Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name of the Corporation's registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
The purpose of the Corporation shall be to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized and incorporated under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
The total number of shares of stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is 630,000,000, consisting of 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.01 per share (hereinafter referred to as "Preferred Stock"), and 600,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share (hereinafter referred to as "Common Stock").
Shares of Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series. The Board of Directors is hereby authorized to provide for the issuance of shares of Preferred Stock in series and, by filing a certificate pursuant to the applicable law of the State of Delaware (hereinafter referred to as a "Preferred Stock Designation"), to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each such series and to fix the designation, powers, preferences and special rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, and increase and decrease the number of shares of any such series (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding).
The Common Stock shall be subject to the express terms of the Preferred Stock and any series thereof. Except as may be provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or in a Preferred Stock Designation, the holders of shares of Common Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each such share upon all questions presented to the stockholders, the Common Stock shall have the exclusive right to vote for the election of directors and for all other purposes, and holders of Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to receive notice of any meeting of stockholders at which they are not entitled to vote.
The Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of the Corporation (the "Series A Preferred Stock") is hereby created. The Series A Preferred Stock shall have the following designation, powers, preferences and special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions:
Section 1. . The shares of such series shall be designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" and the number of shares constituting the Series A Preferred Stock shall be 6,000,000. Such number of shares may be increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors; provided, that no decrease shall reduce the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock to a number less than the number of shares then outstanding plus the number of shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options, rights or warrants or upon the conversion of any outstanding securities issued by the Corporation convertible into Series A Preferred Stock.
Designation and Amount
Section 2. .
Dividends and Distributions
(A) Subject to the rights of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Stock (or any similar stock) ranking prior and superior to the Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock, in preference to the holders of Common Stock, and of any other junior stock, shall be entitled to
 
receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, quarterly dividends payable in cash on the first day of March, June, September and December in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a "Quarterly Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (a) $1 or (b) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 100 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 100 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions, other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Common Stock since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
(B) The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (A) of this Section immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); provided that, in the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $1 per share on the Series A Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.
(C) Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the shares of Series A Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be
 
allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.
Section 3. . The holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:
Voting Rights
(A) Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 100 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
(B) Except as otherwise provided herein, in any Certificate of Designations creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock, or by law, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock and any other capital stock of the Corporation having general voting rights shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation.
(C) Except as set forth herein, or as otherwise provided by law, holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action.
Section 4. .
Certain Restrictions
(A) Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not:
(i) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock;
 
(ii) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled;
(iii) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock, provided that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such junior stock in exchange for shares of any stock of the Corporation ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock; or
(iv) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Series A Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.
(B) The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under paragraph (A) of this Section 4, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.
Section 5. . Any shares of Series A Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein, in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, or in any Certificate of Designations creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock or as otherwise required by law.
Reacquired Shares
Section 6. . Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, no distribution shall be made (1) to the holders of shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have received $100 per share, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment, provided that the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive an aggregate amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 100 times the aggregate amount to
Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up
 
be distributed per share to holders of shares of Common Stock, or (2) to the holders of shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except distributions made ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are entitled upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the aggregate amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under the proviso in clause (1) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
Section 7. In case the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed into an amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 100 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
Consolidation, Merger, etc.
Section 8. . The shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable.
No Redemption
Section 9. . The Series A Preferred Stock shall rank, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets, junior to all series of any other class of the Corporation's Preferred Stock.
Rank
Section 10. . This Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation shall not be amended in any manner which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series A Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class.
Amendment
 
In furtherance of, and not in limitation of, the powers conferred by law, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized and empowered to adopt, amend or repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation; , , that the By-Laws adopted by the Board of Directors under the powers hereby conferred may be amended or repealed by the Board of Directors or by the stockholders having voting power with respect thereto; , that, notwithstanding any other provision of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or any provision of law which might otherwise permit a lesser vote or no vote, but in addition to any affirmative vote of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock required by law, this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or any Preferred Stock Designation, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75 percent of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock (as defined in the next sentence), voting together as a single class, shall be required in order for the stockholders to adopt, amend or repeal any provision of the By-Laws.
provided
however
provided, further
For the purposes of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, "Voting Stock" shall mean the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.
Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation and may not be effected by any consent in writing in lieu of a meeting of such stockholders.
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board or by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies (the "Whole Board").
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances, the number of directors constituting the Whole Board shall be fixed from time to time exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board.
Unless and except to the extent that the By-Laws of the Corporation shall so require, the election of directors of the Corporation need not be by written ballot.
 
Until the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2009, the directors, other than those who may be elected by the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, shall be and are divided into classes. The directors elected at the annual meeting of stockholders held in 2004 shall serve for a term ending on the date of the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2007; the directors elected at the annual meeting of stockholders held in 2005 shall serve for a term ending on the date of the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2008; and the directors elected at the annual meeting of stockholders held in 2006 shall serve for a term ending on the date of the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2009. Members of each class shall hold office until their successors shall have been duly elected and qualified. At each annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation commencing with the 2007 annual meeting, (1) directors elected to succeed those directors whose terms then expire shall be elected by a plurality vote of all votes cast at such meeting to hold office for a term expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders after their election, with each director to hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified, and (2) only if authorized by a resolution of the Board of Directors, directors may be elected to fill any vacancy on the Board of Directors, regardless of how such vacancy shall have been created.
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, and unless the Board of Directors otherwise determines, any vacancy resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause, and any newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors, may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, and any director so chosen shall hold office for the remainder of the term that was being served by the director whose absence creates the vacancy, or, in the case of a vacancy created by an increase in the number of directors, a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders, and in each case until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of authorized directors constituting the total number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Advance notice of stockholder nominations for the election of directors and of business to be brought by stockholders before any meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be given in the manner provided in the By-Laws.
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, any director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed from office at any time, by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class; provided, however, that, if a director's term was scheduled at the time of its commencement to extend beyond the next annual meeting of stockholders, such removal may only be for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75 percent of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class.
 
A director of the Corporation shall not be personally liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except to the extent such exemption from liability or limitation thereof is not permitted under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended. Any amendment or repeal of this Article VIII shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the Corporation existing hereunder in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to such amendment or repeal.
Except as may be expressly provided in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Corporation reserves the right at any time and from time to time to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or a Preferred Stock Designation, and any other provisions authorized by the laws of the State of Delaware at the time in force may be added or inserted, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed herein or by applicable law, and all rights, preferences and privileges of whatsoever nature conferred upon stockholders, directors or any other persons whomsoever by and pursuant to this Restated Certificate of Incorporation in its present form or as hereafter amended are granted subject to the right reserved in this Article IX; , , that any amendment or repeal of Article VIII of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall not adversely affect any right or protection existing hereunder in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to such amendment or repeal; and , , that no Preferred Stock Designation shall be amended after the issuance of any shares of the series of Preferred Stock created thereby, except in accordance with the terms of such Preferred Stock Designation and the requirements of applicable law.
provided
however
provided
further
April 2006
 

Exhibit 99.2
Bylaws
of
MeadWestvaco Corporation
April 2006
 
 
Page
1 - 1
SECTION 1.1. . The annual meeting of stockholders for the election of directors and all special meetings for that or for any other purpose shall be held at such time and place, either within or without the State of Delaware as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors.
Place of Meetings
SECTION 1.2.  The annual meeting of stockholders for elections of directors, and for the transaction of such other business as may be required or authorized to be transacted by stockholders, shall be held on such date and time as designated from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Annual Meetings.
SECTION 1.3.  A special meeting of stockholders for any purpose may be called at any time only by order of the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution approved by a majority of the Board of Directors, by the Chairman of the Board, or by the President. At any such special meeting the only business transacted shall be in accordance with the purposes specified in the notice calling such meeting.
Special Meetings.
SECTION 1.4. . Except as may otherwise be provided by statute or the Certificate of Incorporation, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary shall cause written notice of the place, date and hour for holding each annual and special meeting of stockholders to be given not less than ten days nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting by mailing the notice, postage prepaid, to the stockholder at his post office address as it appears on the records of the Corporation. Notice of each special meeting shall contain a statement of the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. Except as otherwise provided by statute, no notice of an adjourned meeting need be given other than by announcement at the meeting which is being adjourned of the time and place of the adjourned meeting.
Notice of Meetings
SECTION 1.5. . Any previously scheduled annual or special meeting of stockholders may be postponed by resolution of the Board of Directors, upon public notice given prior to the date scheduled for such meeting.
Postponement
SECTION 1.6. . The holders of shares of the outstanding stock of the Corporation representing a majority of the total votes entitled to be cast at any meeting of stockholders, if present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business unless a larger proportion shall be required by statute or the Certificate of Incorporation. The Chairman of a meeting of stockholders may adjourn such meeting from time to time, whether or not there is a quorum of stockholders at such meeting. In the absence of a quorum at any stockholders' meeting, the stockholders present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote may, by majority vote, adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall attend. At any such adjourned meeting, at which a quorum shall be present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called. The lack of the required quorum at any meeting of stockholders for action upon any particular matter, shall not prevent action at such meeting upon other matters which may properly come before the meeting, if the quorum required for taking action upon such other matters shall be present.
Quorum
SECTION 1.7. . The Chairman of the Board shall call meetings of the stockholders to order and shall act as Chairman. If there is no Chairman of the Board, or in the event of his absence or disability, the President, or in the event of his absence or disability, one of the Executive Vice Presidents (in order of first designation as an Executive Vice President) present, or in absence of all Executive Vice Presidents, one of the Senior Vice Presidents (in order of first designation as a Senior Vice President) present, or in the absence also of all Senior Vice Presidents, one of the Vice Presidents (in order of first designation as a Vice President) present, shall call meetings of the stockholders to order and shall act as Chairman thereof. The Secretary of the Corporation, or any person appointed by the Chairman, shall act as Secretary of the meeting of stockholders.
Chairman; Secretary
SECTION 1.8. . The Board of Directors in advance of any meeting of stockholders shall appoint two or more inspectors of election to act at such meeting or any adjournment thereof. In the event of the failure of the Directors to make such appointments, or if any inspector shall for any reason fail to attend or to act at any meeting, or shall for any reason cease to be an inspector before completion of his duties, the appointments shall be made by the Chairman of the meeting.
Inspectors of Election; Opening and Closing the Polls
Page
1 - 2
The Chairman of the meeting shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting.
SECTION 1.9. . At each meeting of the stockholders each stockholder entitled to vote thereat shall, except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, be entitled to one vote in person or by proxy for each share of the stock of the Corporation registered in his name on the books of the Corporation on the date fixed pursuant to Section 6.4 of these Bylaws as the record date fixed for such meeting.
Voting
At each meeting of the stockholders at which a quorum is present, all matters (except as otherwise provided in Section 2.4 or Section 7.7 of these Bylaws, in the Certificate of Incorporation, or by statute) shall be decided by the affirmative vote of the majority of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at such meeting and entitled to vote on the subject matter.
The Board of Directors, in its discretion, or the officer of the Corporation presiding at the meeting of stockholders, in his discretion, may require that any votes cast at such meeting shall be by written ballot.
SECTION 1.10. . Any action by stockholders of the Corporation shall be taken at a meeting of stockholders and no corporate action may be taken by written consent of stockholders entitled to vote upon such action.
Meeting Required
SECTION 1.11. . The proposal of business, other than nominations, which are governed by Section 2.5 of these Bylaws, to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting, (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 1.11.
Notification of Proposals
For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) of the first paragraph of this Section 1.11, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and such other business must otherwise be a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 90th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the seventh day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to the business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner; if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner and (ii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner.
Only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.11. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was proposed in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.11 and, if any proposed business is not in compliance with this Section 1.11, to declare that such defective proposal shall be disregarded.
For purposes of this Section 1.11, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act").
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1.11, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 1.11. Nothing in this Section 1.11 shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.
Page
2 - 1
SECTION 2.1.  The business and property of the Corporation shall be managed and controlled by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall consist of a number of directors to be determined from time to time only by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors.
General Powers, Number, Qualifications and Term of Office.
Until the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2009, the directors shall be and are divided into classes. The directors elected at the annual meeting of stockholders held in 2004 shall serve for a term ending on the date of the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2007; the directors elected at the annual meeting of stockholders held in 2005 shall serve for a term ending on the date of the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2008; and the directors elected at the annual meeting of stockholders held in 2006 shall serve for a term ending on the date of the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2009. At each annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation commencing with the 2007 annual meeting, directors elected to succeed those directors whose terms then expire shall hold office for a term expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders after their election. Each director of the Corporation shall hold office as provided above and until his or her successor shall have been elected and qualified.
SECTION 2.2. . No person shall serve as a director of the Corporation following the annual meeting of stockholders after attaining age 70; that any director who will attain the age of 72 prior to the 2004 annual meeting of stockholders may serve as a director of the Corporation until immediately prior to such annual meeting.
Age Limitation
provided
SECTION 2.3. . Subject to Section 2.1 of this Article, directors shall be elected annually in the manner provided in these Bylaws. At each annual or special meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors, at which a quorum is present, the persons receiving the greatest number of votes shall be the directors. Any vacancies on the Board of Directors caused by death, removal, resignation or any other cause and any newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors, may be filled only by a majority of the directors then in office, even though less than a quorum, at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors, and any director so elected shall hold office for the remainder of the term that was being served by the director whose absence creates the vacancy, or, in the case of a vacancy created by an increase in the number of directors, a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders, and in each case until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified..
Election of Directors; Vacancies; New Directorships
SECTION 2.4. . Any director may be removed without cause, at any time, by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding shares of all classes and series of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, at a special meeting of stockholders duly called and held for the purpose or at an annual meeting of stockholders; provided, however, that, if a director's term was scheduled at the time of its commencement to extend beyond the next annual meeting of stockholders, such removal may only be for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75 percent of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding shares of all classes and series of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class.
Removal of Directors
SECTION 2.5. . Nominations for the election of directors may be made by the Board of Directors or by any stockholder entitled to vote for the election of directors. Any stockholder entitled to vote for the election of directors at a meeting may nominate persons for election as directors only if written notice of such stockholder's intent to make such nomination is given, either by personal delivery or by the United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary of the Corporation, not later than (i) with respect to an election to be held at an annual meeting of stockholders, 90 days in advance of such meeting, and (ii) with respect to an election to be held at a special meeting of stockholders for the election of directors, the close of business on the seventh day following the date on which notice of such meeting is first given to stockholders. Each such notice shall set forth: (a) the name and address of the stockholder who intends to make the nomination and of the person or persons to be nominated, (b) a representation that such stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice, (c) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by such stockholder, (d) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by such stockholder as would have been required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission had each nominee been nominated, or intended to be nominated by the Board of Directors, and (e) the consent of each nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation if so elected. The chairman of the meeting may refuse to acknowledge the nomination of any person not made in compliance with the foregoing procedures.
Notification of Nomination
SECTION 2.6. . The Board of Directors may hold its meetings at such place or places, within or without the State of Delaware, as it may from time to time determine. In the absence of any such determination, such meetings shall be held at the principal business office of the Corporation. Any meeting may be held upon direction to the Secretary by the Chairman of the Board, or, in his absence, by the President at any place, provided that notice of the place of such meeting, whether regular or special, shall be given in the manner provided in Section 2.9 of this Article.
Place of Meetings
Page
2 - 2
SECTION 2.7. .Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held in each year on such dates as a resolution of the Board of Directors may designate at the beginning of each year. Any regular meeting of the Board may be dispensed with upon order of the Board of Directors, or by the Chairman of the Board, or, in his absence, the President if notice thereof is given to each director at least one day prior to the date scheduled for the meeting. If any day fixed for a regular meeting shall be a legal holiday, then such meeting shall be held on the next succeeding business day not a legal holiday. No notice shall be required for any regular meeting of the Board, except that notice of the place of such meeting shall be given (as provided in Section 2.9) if such meeting is to be held at a place other than the principal business office of the Corporation or if the meeting is held on a date other than that established at the beginning of each year by a resolution of the Board of Directors.
Regular Meetings
 
SECTION 2.8. .Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held whenever called by the direction of the Chairman of the Board, the President, an Executive Vice President, or a majority of the Board of Directors then in office.
Special Meetings
 
SECTION 2.9. .Notice of the place, day and hour of every special meeting of the Board of Directors shall be given by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary to each director at least twelve hours before the meeting, by telephone, telegraph or cable, telecopier or e-mail, or by delivery to him personally or to his residence or usual place of business, or by mailing such notice at least three days before the meeting, postage prepaid, to him at his last known post office address according to the records of the Corporation. Except as provided by statute, or by Section 4.3 or Section 7.7 of these Bylaws, such notice need not state the business to be transacted at any special meeting. No notice of any adjourned meeting of the Board of Directors need be given. A meeting may be held at any time without notice if all the directors are present or if those not present waive notice of the meeting in accordance with Section 7.6 of these Bylaws.
Notice of Special Meetings
 
SECTION 2.10. . A whole number of directors equal to at least a majority of the total number of directors as determined by resolution in accordance with Section 2.1, regardless of any vacancies, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting except to fill vacancies in accordance with Section 2.1 and Section 2.3 of this Article, and the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors unless otherwise provided by statute or these Bylaws. In the absence of a quorum, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice until a quorum be had. At any such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally scheduled. The directors present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough directors to leave less than a quorum.
Quorum and Manner of Acting
SECTION 2.11. .At each meeting of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board shall act as Chairman. If there is no Chairman of the Board, or in the event of his absence or disability, the President or in his absence or disability, one of the Executive Vice Presidents who is also a director, or in their absence, a director chosen by a majority of the directors present, shall act as Chairman. The Secretary, or in his absence or disability, an Assistant Secretary, or any person appointed by the Chairman of the meeting, shall act as Secretary of the meeting.
Chairman; Secretary
 
SECTION 2.12. .Each director except a director who is an active employee of the Corporation in receipt of a salary shall be paid such sums as director's fees as shall be fixed by the Board of Directors. Each director may be reimbursed for all expenses incurred in attending meetings of the Board of Directors and in transacting any business on behalf of the Corporation as a director. Nothing in this Section 2.12 shall be construed to preclude a director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
Compensation
 
SECTION 2.13. .Each director, officer and employee, past or present, of the Corporation, and each person who serves or may have served at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer or employee of another corporation and their respective heirs, administrators and executors, shall be indemnified by the Corporation in accordance with, and to the fullest extent provided by, the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as it may from time to time be amended. Each agent of the Corporation and each person who serves or may have served at the request of the Corporation as an agent of another corporation, or as an employee or agent of any partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise may, in the discretion of the Board of Directors, be indemnified by the Corporation to the same extent as provided herein with respect to directors, officers and employees of the Corporation.
Indemnity
 
Page
3 - 1
SECTION 3.1..The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. Such resolution shall specify a designation by which a committee shall be known, shall fix its powers and authority, and may fix the term of office of its members. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors, or in the Bylaws of the Corporation, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; except as otherwise provided by statute.
 
Committees of Directors
 
SECTION 3.2. .The members of committees of directors shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. Subject to Section 3.1, any member of a committee of directors may be removed at any time and any vacancy in any such committee may be filled by majority vote of the whole Board of Directors.
Removal; Vacancies
 
SECTION 3.3. .The Board of Directors may by resolution determine from time to time the compensation, if any, including reimbursement for expenses, of members of any committee of directors for services rendered to the Corporation as a member of any such committee.
Compensation
 
Page
4 - 1
SECTION 4.1. .The officers of the Corporation shall be chosen by the Board of Directors and shall be a Chairman of the Board, a President, one or more Vice Presidents, a Secretary and a Treasurer. Officers of the Corporation may also include a Controller, Assistant Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers, and Assistant Controllers. One or more persons may hold any two of such offices. The Chairman of the Board shall be chosen from the Board of Directors and the Chairman or the President shall be designated by the Board of Directors as the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation. Subject to the direction of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer shall have general supervision of the business and affairs of the Corporation and over its officers, employees and agents with such powers and duties incident to being Chief Executive Officer of a corporation, and as are provided for him in these Bylaws. In addition, the Chief Executive Officer shall exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may add additional titles to any office to indicate seniority or additional responsibility.
Number
 
SECTION 4.2. .The officers shall be chosen annually by the Board of Directors at its first regular meeting following the annual meeting of stockholders and each shall hold office until the corresponding meeting in the next year and until his successor shall have been elected and shall qualify, or until his earlier death or resignation or until he shall have been removed in the manner provided in Section 4.3. Any vacancy in any office shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting.
Election; Term of Office and Qualifications
 
SECTION 4.3. .Other than the Chairman of the Board, any officer may be removed from office, either with or without cause, by the Chief Executive Officer or, the majority of the whole Board of Directors at a special meeting called for that purpose, or at a regular meeting.
Removal
 
SECTION 4.4. .The Board of Directors shall have authority to determine any and all salaries of employees of the Corporation. The Board may by resolution authorize a committee of directors (none of whom shall be an officer or employee of the Corporation) to fix any such salaries. Salaries not determined by the Board of Directors, or by a committee of directors, may be fixed by the Chief Executive Officer.
Salaries
 
SECTION 4.5. .The Chairman of the Board shall be an officer and employee of the Corporation and shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board shall have all powers and perform all duties incident to the office of a Chairman of the Board of a corporation, and as are provided for him in these Bylaws, and shall exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors. If there is no President or in the event of his or her death or disability, the Chairman of the Board shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the President.
The Chairman of the Board
 
SECTION 4.6. .The President shall have all powers and perform all duties incident to the office of the President as are provided for him in these Bylaws and shall exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer.
The President
 
SECTION 4.7. .The Vice Presidents shall have such powers and perform such duties as are provided for them in these Bylaws and as may be assigned to them, or any of them, by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer or the Chairman of the Board. The Executive Vice Presidents (in order of first designation as an Executive Vice President), in the event of the death or disability of the President and the Chairman of the Board, shall perform all the duties of the President and when so acting shall have the powers of the President. In the event of the death or disability of the President, the Chairman of the Board (if such Person is an officer of the Corporation) and all Executive Vice Presidents, the available Senior Vice President (in order of first designation as a Senior Vice President), or in the event of the death or disability also of all Senior Vice Presidents, the Vice President who is available and was first elected a Vice President prior to all other available Vice Presidents shall perform all the duties of the President and when so acting shall have the powers of the President. A Vice President performing the duties and exercising the powers of the President shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Chief Executive Officer if there is no Chairman of the Board or in the event of the death or disability of the Chairman of the Board.
The Vice Presidents
 
SECTION 4.8. .The Assistant Vice Presidents shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to them, or any of them, by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
The Assistant Vice Presidents
 
Page
4 - 2
SECTION 4.9. .The Secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept in books provided for the purpose, the minutes of the meeting of stockholders and of the Board of Directors and any minutes of Committees of the Board of Directors; shall see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws and as required by statute; shall be custodian of the records and of the corporate seal or seals of the Corporation; and shall cause the corporate seal to be affixed to any document the execution of which, on behalf of the Corporation, under its seal, is duly authorized and when so affixed, may attest the same. The Secretary shall have all powers and perform all duties incident to the office of a secretary of a corporation and as are provided for in these Bylaws and shall exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as may be assigned by the Board of Directors, or, as to matters not related to the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or, as to matters related to the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board.
The Secretary
 
SECTION 4.10. . In the absence or disability of the Secretary, the Assistant Secretary designated by the Secretary shall perform all the duties of the Secretary and, when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Secretary. The Assistant Secretaries shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as are provided for them in these Bylaws and as may be assigned to them, or any of them, by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary.
The Assistant Secretaries
SECTION 4.11. . The Treasurer shall have general charge of and general responsibility for all funds, securities, and receipts of the Corporation and shall deposit, or cause to be deposited, in the name of the Corporation, all moneys or other valuable effects in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as shall from time to time be designated in accordance with Section 5.2 of these Bylaws. He shall have all powers and perform all duties incident to the office of a treasurer of a corporation and as are provided for him in these Bylaws and shall exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
The Treasurer
SECTION 4.12. . In the absence or disability of the Treasurer, the Assistant Treasurer designated by the Treasurer shall perform all the duties of the Treasurer and, when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Treasurer. The Assistant Treasurers shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as are provided for them in these Bylaws and as may be assigned to them, or any of them, by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Treasurer.
The Assistant Treasurers
SECTION 4.13. . The Controller shall have general charge and supervision of financial reports; he shall maintain adequate records of all assets, liabilities and transactions of the Corporation; he shall keep the books and accounts and cause adequate audits thereof to be made regularly; he shall exercise a general check upon the disbursements of funds of the Corporation; and in general shall perform all duties incident to the office of a controller of a corporation, and shall exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
The Controller
SECTION 4.14. . In the absence or disability of the Controller, the Assistant Controller designated by the Controller shall perform all the duties of the Controller and, when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Controller. The Assistant Controllers shall exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to them, or any of them, by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Controller.
The Assistant Controllers
Page
5 - 1
SECTION 5.1. . Except as may be otherwise provided by statute or by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, the Secretary, the Treasurer, and each of them, may make, sign, endorse, verify, acknowledge and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, all deeds, leases and other conveyances, contracts, agreements, checks, notes, drafts and other commercial paper, bonds, assignments, bills of sale, releases, reports and all other instruments and documents deemed necessary or advisable by the officer or officers executing the same for carrying on the business and affairs of the Corporation, subject, however, to Section 5.4 relating to stock certificates of the Corporation, to Section 5.5 relating to execution of proxies and to Section 5.6 relating to securities held by the Corporation.
Contracts, Agreements, Checks and Other Instruments
SECTION 5.2. . Except as otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, any two of the following officers: the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, and the Treasurer may from time to time, (1) open and keep in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, with such banks, trust companies or other depositories as they may designate, general and special bank accounts for the funds of the Corporation, (2) terminate any such bank accounts and (3) select and contract to rent and maintain safe deposit boxes with depositories as they may designate and terminate such contracts and authorize access to any safe deposit box by any two employees designated for such purposes, at least one of whom shall be an officer, and revoke such authority. Any such action by two of the officers as specified above shall be made by an instrument in writing signed by such two officers.
Bank Accounts; Deposits; Checks, Drafts and Orders Issued in the Corporation's Name
All funds and securities of the Corporation shall be deposited in such banks, trust companies and other depositories as are designated by the Board of Directors or by the aforesaid officers in the manner hereinabove provided, and for the purpose of such deposits, the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, the Secretary, the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, and each of them, or any other person or persons authorized by the Board of Directors, may endorse, assign and deliver checks, notes, drafts, and other orders for the payment of money which are payable to the Corporation. Except as otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, all checks, drafts or orders for the payment of money, drawn in the name of the Corporation, may be signed by the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Executive or Senior Vice President, the Secretary or the Treasurer or by any other officers or any employees of the Corporation who shall from time to time be designated to sign checks, drafts, or orders on all accounts or on any specific account of the Corporation by an "instrument of designation" signed by any two of the following officers: the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Executive or Senior Vice President, and the Treasurer.
SECTION 5.3. . The Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, the Treasurer or the Secretary may appoint such managers and attorneys and agents of the Corporation (who also may be employees of the Corporation) as may be deemed desirable who shall serve for such periods, have such powers, bear such titles and perform such duties as the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, the Treasurer or the Secretary may from time to time prescribe.
Delegation of Authority
SECTION 5.4. . All certificates of stock issued by the Corporation shall be executed in accordance with Section 6.1 of these Bylaws.
Stock Certificates
SECTION 5.5. . Stock in other corporations, which may from time to time be held by the Corporation, may be represented and voted at any meeting of stockholders of such other corporation by proxy executed in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Executive Vice President or the Treasurer, with the corporate seal affixed and attested by the Secretary.
Voting of Stock in Other Corporations
SECTION 5.6. . The Chairman of the Board, the President or any Executive or Senior Vice President, the Treasurer or the Secretary are authorized to sell, transfer, endorse and assign any and all shares of stock, bonds and other securities owned by or standing in the name of the Corporation. The executing officers or officer may execute and deliver in the name and on behalf of the Corporation any instrument deemed necessary or advisable by the executing officers or officer to accomplish such transactions.
Sale and Transfer of Securities
Page
6 - 1
SECTION 6.1. . Each holder of stock shall be entitled to have a certificate or certificates, certifying the number and kind of shares owned by him in the Corporation signed by the Chairman of the Board, the President or an Executive Vice President and the Secretary and sealed with the seal of the Corporation. Where such certificate is signed by a transfer agent and by a registrar, the signatures of Corporation officers and the corporate seal may be facsimile, engraved or printed. In case any officer who shall have signed, or whose facsimile signature shall have been used on any such certificate, shall cease to be such officer of the Corporation, whether caused by death, resignation or otherwise, before such certificate shall have been delivered by the Corporation, such certificate shall nevertheless be deemed to have been adopted by the Corporation and may be issued and delivered as though the person who signed the same, or whose facsimile signature shall have been used thereon, had not ceased to be such officer of the Corporation. The certificates for shares of the capital stock of the Corporation shall be in such forms as shall be approved by the Board of Directors.
Certificates of Stock
SECTION 6.2. . Shares of stock shall be transferable only on the books of the Corporation by the holder thereof, in person or by duly authorized attorney, upon the surrender of the certificate, properly endorsed, representing the shares to be transferred.
Transfer of Stock
SECTION 6.3. . The Corporation may have a transfer agent and a registrar of its stock for different locations appointed by the Board of Directors from time to time. The Board of Directors may direct that the functions of transfer agent and registrar be combined and appoint a single agency to perform both functions at one or more locations. Duties of the transfer agent, registrar and combined agency may be defined from time to time by the Board of Directors. No certificate of stock shall be valid until countersigned by a transfer agent and until registered by a registrar even if both functions are performed by a single agency.
Transfer Agents and Registrars
SECTION 6.4. . The Board of Directors shall have power to fix in advance a record date to determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof or to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action and such record date shall not be more than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of any meeting, nor more than sixty days prior to any other action.
Record Dates
Page
7 - 1
SECTION 7.1. . The Corporation's principal office, principal place of business, and principal business office shall be at One High Ridge Park, Stamford, Connecticut. In the State of Delaware the Corporation's registered office shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. The Corporation may also have other offices at such other places as the business of the Corporation may require.
Offices
SECTION 7.2. . The corporate seal of the Corporation shall have inscribed thereon the following words and figures: MeadWestvaco Corporation 2001 Incorporated Delaware. The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or otherwise reproduced. A duplicate seal or duplicate seals may be provided and kept for the necessary purposes of the Corporation.
Seal
SECTION 7.3. . The Board of Directors may determine from time to time whether, and, if allowed, when and under what conditions and regulations, the books and records of the Corporation, or any of them, shall be open to the inspection of stockholders, and the rights of stockholders in this respect are and shall be limited accordingly (except as otherwise provided by statute). Under no circumstances shall any stockholder have the right to inspect any book or record or receive any statement for an improper or illegal purpose. Subject to the provisions of statutes relating thereto, the books and records of the Corporation may be kept outside the State of Delaware at such places as may be from time to time designated by the Board of Directors.
Books and Records
SECTION 7.4. . Unless otherwise ordered by the Board of Directors, the fiscal year of the Corporation shall be twelve calendar months beginning on the first day of January in each year.
Fiscal Year
SECTION 7.5. . The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors shall appoint annually an independent public accountant or firm of independent public accountants to audit the books of the Corporation for each fiscal year; this appointment shall be subject to shareholder ratification at the annual meeting next succeeding the appointment.
Independent Public Accountants
SECTION 7.6. . Any shareholder or director may waive any notice required to be given by law or by the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws; provided that such waiver shall be in writing and signed by such shareholder or director or by the duly authorized attorney of the shareholder, either before or after the meeting, notice of which is being waived.
Waiver of Notice
SECTION 7.7. . The Board of Directors shall have power to make, alter and amend any Bylaws of the Corporation by a vote of a majority of the whole Board at any regular meeting of the Board of Directors, or any special meeting of the Board if notice of the proposed Bylaw, alteration or amendment be contained in the notice of such special meeting; provided, however, that no Bylaw shall be deemed made, altered or amended, by the Board of Directors unless the resolution authorizing the same shall specifically state that a Bylaw is thereby being made, altered or amended. Except as otherwise provided in these Bylaws or the Certificate of Incorporation, the shareholders of the Corporation may make, alter, amend or repeal any Bylaws of the Corporation by the affirmative vote of the majority of the stock entitled to vote at any annual or special meeting.
Amendments
Certificate
I certify that this is a true and correct copy of the bylaws of MeadWestvaco Corporation.
 


