FILE:MWV/MWV-8K-20061030185008.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On October 24, 2006, the Board if Directors of MeadWestvaco Corporation approved amendments to the Company's defined benefit retirement plans for salaried and non-bargained hourly employees ("Retirement Plan") as well the company's defined contribution 401(k) savings plans for all salaried and hourly employees ("Savings Plan").
Beginning January 2007, Retirement Plan benefits for new employees will accrue under a cash balance formula. In January 2008, employees under age 40 will begin to accrue benefits under a cash balance formula and employees over age 40 will have the option to accrue benefits under the cash balance or the existing final average pay or multiplier formulas.
Beginning January 2007, employees in the Savings Plan will have the option of diversifying company matching contributions which are invested in the MeadWestvaco Stock Fund among other investment funds in the Plan.
As a result of these benefit plan changes, executive officers of the company, including Named Executive Officers, will be covered by these initiatives. In addition, these benefit changes apply to the company's benefit restoration plans, which are designed to restore benefits that are not available under the company's qualified retirement and 401(k) savings plans because of compensation limitations imposed by federal laws. These plans' benefit formulas mirror the benefits provided under the Retirement Plan and the Savings Plan, but are not subject to the benefit limitations applicable to those plans under the Internal Revenue Code. Benefits provided under such plans are unfunded liabilities of the company. The company's retirement restoration plan was filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.32 to the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 30, 2006
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Richmond, VA, October 30, 2006  MeadWestvaco Corporation (NYSE: MWV) today announced it will update its U.S. defined benefit pension plan covering salaried and non-union hourly employees; some of the changes to the plan will take effect January 1, 2007. The company is adding a cash balance formula within its existing retirement plan, which will provide eligible employees with a lump sum distribution of vested pension plan benefits upon termination of employment. These changes are being made to provide employees with a more portable and flexible retirement program that grows at a stable and predictable rate.
According to the new cash balance formula, eligible employees will receive an annual contribution from the company at a specific percentage of eligible pay based on an employee's combined age and years of service that grows at a guaranteed rate of interest until retirement or termination of employment. Beginning January 1, 2007, all new employees will accrue benefits under the new cash balance formula. Current employees will transition to the new cash balance formula on January 1, 2008, and those age 40 and over will have the option to remain in the current pension formula or transition to the new formula. The changes do not affect MeadWestvaco's current U.S. retirees, former employees with vested benefits or employees who retire prior to December 31, 2007.
"MeadWestvaco has been listening to its employees and carefully researching retirement planning trends to determine the best possible defined benefit program," said Linda V. Schreiner, senior vice president, MeadWestvaco. "As our company has changed over the years to focus more intently on developing innovative consumer packaging solutions, so in turn has our workforce. The implementation of this new cash balance formula provides more options to employees, while ensuring that MeadWestvaco continues to provide outstanding retirement benefits for our employees."
MeadWestvaco will provide educational materials and training for employees over the next several months to answer all questions prior to the shift to the new cash balance formula taking effect in 2008. All benefits accrued under the current final average pay formula will not change.
About MeadWestvaco
MeadWestvaco is a global packaging company that delivers high-value packaging solutions and products to the world's most recognized companies in the food and beverage, media and entertainment, personal care, home and garden, cosmetic and healthcare industries. The company also has market-leading positions in its Consumer & Office Products, Specialty Chemicals and Specialty Papers businesses. MeadWestvaco, with operations in more than 29 countries, has been selected for the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, and manages all of its forestlands in accordance with internationally recognized forest certification standards. For more information, please visit .
www.meadwestvaco.com


