FILE:MWV/MWV-8K-20060126161820.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1 - Registrant's Business and Operations
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
On January 24, 2006, MeadWestvaco Corporation (the "company") announced that Timothy H. Powers was named to the company's Board of Directors, effective January 24, 2006. Mr. Powers will serve as a member of the Audit Committee. Mr. Powers is the chairman, president and chief executive officer of Hubbell, Inc. ("Hubbell"). Hubbell is primarily engaged in the engineering, manufacturing and sale of electrical and electronic products. Mr. Powers was appointed as president and chief executive officer of Hubbell in 2001 and subsequently elected chairman of its Board of Directors in 2004. He joined Hubbell in 1998 and previously served as senior vice president and chief financial officer. Mr. Powers is also the chairman of the National Electrical Manufacturers Association. There are no transactions, or series of similar transactions, or any currently proposed transactions, to which the company is to be a party, in which the amount involved exceeds $60,000, and in which Mr. Powers had, or will have, a direct or indirect material interest.
 
The company's press release, dated January 24, 2006, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
STAMFORD, CONN., January 24, 2006 - MeadWestvaco Corporation (NYSE: MWV) today announced Timothy H. Powers, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Hubbell, Inc., has been appointed to the company's Board of Directors, effective January 24, 2006.
 
At Hubbell, an international manufacturer of electrical and electronic products for commercial, industrial, residential, utility, and telecommunications markets, Mr. Powers was appointed as president and chief executive officer in 2001, and subsequently elected chairman of the Board of Directors in 2004. He joined Hubbell's senior management in 1998 as senior vice president and chief financial officer. Prior to joining Hubbell, Mr. Powers held senior positions in finance and business development with ABB, Inc., and BBC Brown Boveri, Inc.
 
"We are very pleased to welcome Tim to the MeadWestvaco board," said John A. Luke, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer of MeadWestvaco. "His extensive experience and insight will further strengthen our Board, and the company as a whole, as we strive for global leadership in packaging and packaging solutions."
 
Mr. Powers serves as chairman of the National Electrical Manufacturers Association and IDEA, an organization that sets the standards for the electrical industry.
 
He holds a Master of Business Administration degree from John Carroll University and a Bachelor of Arts degree from Wittenburg University.
 
MeadWestvaco, headquartered in Stamford, Conn., is a global packaging company that delivers high-value packaging solutions and products to the world's most recognized companies in the food and beverage, media and entertainment, personal care, cosmetic and healthcare industries. The company also has market-leading positions in its Consumer & Office Products, Specialty Chemicals and Specialty Papers businesses. MeadWestvaco, with operations in more than 29 countries, has been selected for the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, and manages all of its forestlands in accordance with internationally recognized forest certification standards. For more information, please visit www.meadwestvaco.com.


