FILE:MWV/MWV-8K-20070302132409.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
I. Establishment of 2007 Annual Incentive Award Criteria
On February 26, 2007, the Compensation and Organization Development Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee") of MeadWestvaco Corporation (the "Company") established criteria for annual incentive awards under the Company's 2005 Performance Incentive Plan (approved by the company's shareholders on April 25, 2005, the "Plan"). Certain designated employees, including all the Company's senior executive officers, participate in the Plan and are eligible to receive an annual incentive award under the Plan.
Under the annual portion of the Plan, the Committee established target objectives under the following performance criteria and assigned the weightings set forth below.
 
Payments under the annual incentive portion of the Plan for 2007 are subject to the additional requirement that the Company generate sufficient cash to cover dividends paid and capital needed to maintain equipment, and comply with safety and environmental standards.
The minimum payout under the annual incentive portion of the Plan for the 2007 calendar year is determined by plan formula and could be 0% of the participant's target. Possible payouts range from 50% of target for threshold performance to 200% of target for stretch performance. With respect to performance below the target level, payouts will be based on the Company's proportional progress made toward the target. However, there shall be no payout for performance below the threshold level. The maximum award possible under the annual incentive portion of the Plan is 200% of the participant's target. Individual annual target amounts for each of our senior executive officers ranges from 55-110% of base salary and are payable in a lump sum.
II. Establishment of 2007 Long-Term Incentive Award Criteria (performance-based restricted stock units and non-qualified stock options)
Under the long-term portion of the Plan, the Committee established a three-year performance period beginning January 1, 2007 and ending December 31, 2009 (the "Performance Period"), with the following performance objectives and assigned the weightings set forth below.
 
The Company's senior executive officers, as well as other designated employees, are eligible for long-term incentive awards under the Plan. These long-term awards, which are delivered in performance-based restricted stock units valued at February 26, 2007 (the "Grant Date"), are subject to (i) a three-year vesting restriction expiring on the third anniversary of the Grant Date and (ii) the satisfaction of the performance objectives during the Performance Period. The minimum payout under the long-term portion of the Plan is zero. Payouts for performance below the target level will be based on the Company's proportional progress made toward the target, however, there shall be no payout below the threshold level. The maximum award possible under the long-term portion of the Plan is 200% of the participant's target.
These potential long-term awards were granted under the Plan using the Form of Award Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The description of these awards is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Form of Award Agreement. In recognition of the at-risk nature of long-term compensation, the individual aggregate long-term target awards, when combined with the non-qualified stock options grants for our senior executive officers range from 150%-450% of base salary.
The performance based restricted stock units are subject to Committee review and exercise of negative discretion based on performance levels achieved. These potential long-term awards would be payable in 2010.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 2, 2007
 

Exhibit 10.1
The performance-based restricted stock unit award is subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to continued employment through the third anniversary of the Award Date, the vesting of your Award is contingent upon the Company achieving by the end of the three-year performance period beginning January 1, 2007 and ending on December 31, 2009 (the "") certain performance goals with respect to return on invested capital and revenue from new products, as approved by the Committee. The number of restricted stock units that vest will be determined in accordance with these goals.
Performance Period
In the event that the Company's performance falls below the Target level performance goals, the number of Vested Units shall be determined by linear interpolation; provided, that no portion of your Award shall vest in the event the Company's performance level falls below the Threshold level performance goals. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in no event will more than 200% of the number of Target Units become vested.
Following the end of the Performance Period and the collection of relevant data necessary to determine the extent to which the performance goals have been satisfied, the Committee will determine: (a) the percentage of return on invested capital during the third year of the Performance Period and revenue from new products that was achieved by the Company over the Performance Period; and (b) the percentage of the Award that vested as of the last day of the Performance Period as a result of such achievement. The Committee shall make these determinations in its sole discretion. To the extent required under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, the level of achievement of the performance goals shall be evidenced by the Committee's written certification. For the avoidance of doubt, any restricted stock units subject to this Award that do not vest in accordance with the forgoing shall expire without consideration at the end of the Performance Period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unvested Units that become Vested Units under this Paragraph 5 shall not be delivered to the Participant (or Beneficiary, if applicable) in Shares, until after the close of the Performance Period, subject to the Company's satisfactory completion of performance objectives (set forth above) as approved by the Committee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By your signature and the Company's signature below, you and the Company agree that this Award is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Company's 2005 Performance Incentive Plan, you agree to be bound by the terms of the Plan and this Agreement, and you agree that all decisions and determinations of the Committee with respect to the Award shall be final and binding.
 


