FILE:MWV/MWV-8K-20070924203046.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On September 24, 2007, MeadWestvaco Corporation issued a news release. A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
This information is being furnished under Item 8.01 "Other Events" of Form 8-K. Such information, including the Exhibit attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: September 24, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
RICHMOND, VA  September 24, 2007  MeadWestvaco Corporation (NYSE: MWV) today announced it has completed the sale of its 62,000 acres of forestland in Elkins, West Virginia, for $93.1 million. The forestland was sold to Penn Virginia Operating Co., LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Penn Virginia Resource Partners, L.P. (NYSE: PVR).
About MeadWestvaco
MeadWestvaco Corporation (NYSE: MWV) provides packaging solutions to many of the world's most-admired brands in the food and beverage, media and entertainment, personal care, home and garden, cosmetics, and healthcare industries. The company has market-leading positions in its Consumer & Office Products and Specialty Chemicals businesses, and operates in more than 30 countries. MeadWestvaco manages all of its forestlands in accordance with internationally recognized forest certification standards, and has been named to the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for the fourth consecutive year. For more information, please visit us at .
www.meadwestvaco.com


