FILE:MWV/MWV-8K-20110629133536.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 28, 2011, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of MeadWestvaco Corporation (the "Company") elected Alan D. Wilson as Director of the Company. Mr. Wilson was appointed to serve on the Board's Compensation and Organization Development Committee and the Committee on Safety, Health and the Environment. Mr. Wilson is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of McCormick & Company, Incorporated, a global leader in flavor and provider of spices, seasoning mixes, condiments, and other flavorful products to the entire food industry - retail outlets, food manufacturers and foodservice businesses. He has served in a variety of executive management roles at McCormick since joining the company in 1993. Previously, Mr. Wilson worked for nine years at Procter & Gamble, where he held progressively responsible positions in product supply, procurement and manufacturing.
Mr. Wilson currently serves on the Board of Directors of the Grocery Manufacturer's Association, the leading trade association for the food, beverage and consumer packaged goods industry. He also serves on the Board of Directors of the Greater Baltimore Committee and the Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation, and on the Maryland Economic Development Commission and the Business Roundtable for Education. He is President of the Alumni Board of the University of Tennessee, Knoxville and a member of the Board of Visitors of the University of Maryland, Baltimore County. Mr. Wilson is a graduate of the University of Tennessee in Knoxville, Tennessee.
Mr. Wilson will receive compensation consistent with the terms of the Company's Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors. Such compensation includes a pro-rata amount of: (1) an annual cash retainer, and (2) an annual grant of stock units which is distributed in the form of the Company's common stock upon termination of a director's board membership.
 
A copy of the Company's press release announcing the election of Mr. Wilson to the Board is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
PRESS RELEASE
 
RICHMOND, VA (June 28, 2011)MeadWestvaco Corporation's (NYSE: MWV) Board of Directors today elected Alan D. Wilson a director of the company. Mr. Wilson brings extensive consumer products knowledge and experience in the food industry to help guide MWV's global packaging business.
Mr. Wilson is chairman, president and chief executive officer of McCormick & Company, Incorporated, a global leader in flavor and provider of spices, seasoning mixes, condiments, and other flavorful products to the entire food industry - retail outlets, food manufacturers and foodservice businesses. He has served in a variety of executive management roles at McCormick since joining the company in 1993. Previously, Mr. Wilson worked for nine years at Procter & Gamble, where he held progressively responsible positions in product supply, procurement and manufacturing.
Mr. Wilson currently serves on the Board of Directors of the Grocery Manufacturer's Association, the leading trade association for the food, beverage and consumer packaged goods industry. He also serves on the Board of Directors of the Greater Baltimore Committee and the Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation, and on the Maryland Economic Development Commission and the Business Roundtable for Education. He is President of the Alumni Board of the University of Tennessee, Knoxville and a member of the Board of Visitors of the University of Maryland, Baltimore County.
Mr. Wilson is a graduate of the University of Tennessee in Knoxville, Tennessee.
About MWV
MeadWestvaco Corporation (NYSE: MWV), provides packaging solutions to many of the world's most-admired brands in the healthcare, beauty and personal care, food, beverage, home and garden, and tobacco industries. The company's businesses also include Consumer & Office Products, Specialty Chemicals, and the Community Development and Land Management Group, which sustainably manages the company's land holdings to support its operations, and to provide for conservation, recreation and development opportunities. With 17,500 employees worldwide, MWV operates in 30 countries and serves customers in more than 100 nations. MWV manages all of its forestlands in accordance with internationally recognized forest certification standards, and has been named to the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for seven consecutive years. For more information, please visit .
www.mwv.com


