FILE:MWV/MWV-8K-20110328171311.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 28, 2011, an amendment to MeadWestvaco Corporation's Proxy Statement was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. A copy of the amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information is being furnished under Item 7.01 "Regulation FD Disclosure" of Form 8-K. Such information, including the Exhibit attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
 
Filed by the Registrant                              Filed by a Party other than the Registrant  
x
Check the appropriate box:
 
 
 
 
On page 31 of MeadWestvaco Corporation's Proxy Statement under the heading 2010 Long-Term Compensation Awards (Equity) the company provides additional information relating to the design, operation and goal setting process for the 2010 Long-Term Compensation Awards. As previously disclosed, the company introduced economic profit ("EP") as a key performance metric in its long-term incentive equity plan. EP equals after-tax actual EBIT (calculated using a planned operational tax rate), less the company's weighted cost of capital, applied to the capital employed (net debt plus total equity). In determining EP, adjustments are made for pension (asset, income and liability), historical (pre-2010) goodwill and intangibles (asset, expense and liability), and non-operational items such as restructuring charges and alternative fuels mixtures tax credits.
The EP performance goal is designed to reward financial returns that exceed the company's cost of capital. Performance-based restricted stock unit awards granted in 2010 vest based on cumulative change in EP over a specified period of time. EP is a long-term performance goal that the Compensation & Organization Development Committee ("Committee") believes will most directly translate into shareholder value.
As previously disclosed, performance-based restricted stock unit awards granted in 2010 are:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Set forth below is additional information regarding the EP performance goal:
 
 
 
 
 


