FILE:MWV/MWV-8K-20120228134228.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 27, 2012, the Board of Directors ("Board") of MeadWestvaco Corporation (the "Company") elected Gracia C. Martore as Director of the Company. Ms. Martore was appointed to serve on the Board's Audit Committee and Finance Committee. Ms. Martore is President and Chief Executive Officer of Gannett Co., Inc., a leading media and marketing solutions company with a diverse portfolio of broadcast, digital, mobile and publishing companies. She has served in a variety of executive management roles at Gannett since joining the company in 1985. Previously, Ms. Martore worked for twelve years in the banking industry.
Ms. Martore currently serves on the Board of Directors of Gannett Co., Inc. and Factory Mutual Insurance Company. She also serves on the Advisory Board of Florence Crittendon. Ms. Martore is a graduate of Wellesley College.
Ms. Martore will receive compensation consistent with the terms of the Company's Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors. Such compensation includes a pro-rata amount of: (1) an annual cash retainer, (2) an annual grant of stock units which is distributed in the form of the Company's common stock upon termination of a director's board membership, and (3) an annual cash retainer for service on the Audit Committee.
A copy of the Company's press release announcing the election of Ms. Martore to the Board is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
PRESS RELEASE
Media Contact
Scott Openshaw
: +1 804-444-6011
Tel
mediainquiries@mwv.com
RICHMOND, VA (February 27, 2012)MeadWestvaco Corporation's (NYSE: ) board of directors today elected Gracia C. Martore a director of the company. Ms. Martore brings strong financial and management experience, media and marketing expertise, and unique consumer insight that will help guide MWV's global packaging business.
MWV
Ms. Martore, 60 years old, is president and chief executive officer of Gannett Co., Inc.(NYSE: ), a leading media and marketing solutions company with a diverse portfolio of broadcast, digital, mobile and publishing companies.
GCI
Martore joined Gannett in 1985 as assistant treasurer. She became a vice president in the treasury group in 1993 and added investor relations duties in 1995. Martore was named treasurer and vice president, investor relations in 1998. She was promoted to senior vice president of finance in addition to her treasurer's responsibilities in 2001. In 2003, Martore became senior vice president and chief financial officer and was appointed to Gannett's management committee. In 2005, she became executive vice president and chief financial officer. In 2010, Martore was named president and chief operating officer. Prior to joining Gannett, she worked for 12 years in the banking industry.
As a member of the MWV board of directors, Ms. Martore's duties will include her participation on the audit committee and the finance committee.
Martore serves on the boards of directors of Gannett Co. Inc. and FM Global and the advisory board of Florence Crittendon.
A former Wellesley Scholar for academic excellence, Ms. Martore graduated from Wellesley College in 1973.
About MWV
MeadWestvaco Corporation (NYSE: MWV), provides packaging solutions to many of the world's most-admired brands in the healthcare, beauty and personal care, food, beverage, home and garden, and tobacco industries. The company's businesses also include Consumer & Office Products, Specialty Chemicals, and the Community Development and Land Management Group, which sustainably manages the company's land holdings to support its operations, and to provide for conservation, recreation and development opportunities. With 17,500 employees worldwide, MWV operates in 30 countries and serves customers in more than 100 nations. MWV manages all of its forestlands in accordance with internationally recognized forest certification standards, and has been named to the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for eight consecutive years. For more information, please visit .
www.mwv.com


