FILE:MWV/MWV-8K-20120503104943.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 1, 2012, MeadWestavco Corporation (the "Company" or "MeadWestvaco") issued a press release announcing the completion of the spin-off of its Consumer & Office Products business and subsequent merger of that business with ACCO Brands Corporation (the "Transaction"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. As a result of the Transaction, MeadWestvaco shareholders received 0.32986547 shares of ACCO Brands Corporation common stock for each share of MeadWestvaco common stock they owned of record as of April 24, 2012, resulting in their collective ownership on May 1, 2012 of 50.5% of the issued and outstanding shares of ACCO Brands Corporation common stock. Under the terms of the Transaction, including a working capital adjustment, MeadWestvaco received aggregate consideration of $433 million on a tax-free basis, subject to certain potential post-closing adjustments.
 
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information
The unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of operations of the Company for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 and for the three years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, and the unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet of the Company as of March 31, 2012 are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
PRESS RELEASE
 
RICHMOND, Va., May 1, 2012MeadWestvaco Corporation (NYSE: ), a , today announced it has completed the spin-off and merger of its Consumer & Office Products business with ACCO Brands Corporation (NYSE: ).
MWV
global leader in packaging solutions
ACCO
As a result of the transaction, in addition to retaining the shares of MeadWestvaco Corporation common stock they currently own, MeadWestvaco Corporation stockholders received today 0.32986547 shares of ACCO Brands for each share of MeadWestvaco Corporation they owned of record as of April 24, 2012. No fractional shares of ACCO Brands Corporation were issued, and MeadWestvaco Corporation stockholders received cash in lieu of any fractional shares. Under the terms of the transaction, including a working capital adjustment, MeadWestvaco received $433 million on a tax-free basis, subject to post-closing adjustments.
"By spinning off the Consumer & Office Products business and merging it with ACCO Brands, we have created an industry leader in consumer and office products," said John A. Luke, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "This transaction creates substantial value for both companies' stockholders, and enhances MWV's focus on packaging solutions for the world's leading brands."
For more information please visit:
http://phx.corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?c=111517&p=irol-merge
About MWV
MeadWestvaco Corporation (NYSE: MWV), provides packaging solutions to many of the world's most-admired brands in the healthcare, beauty and personal care, food, beverage, home and garden, and tobacco industries. The company's businesses also include Specialty Chemicals, and the Community Development and Land Management Group, which sustainably manages the company's land holdings to support its operations, and to provide for conservation, recreation and development opportunities. With 15,000 employees worldwide, MWV operates in 30 countries and serves customers in more than 100 nations. MWV manages all of its forestlands in accordance with internationally recognized forest certification standards, and has been named to the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for eight consecutive years. For more information, please visit .
www.mwv.com

Exhibit 99.2
Introduction
The following unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements give effect to the spin-off of MeadWestvaco Corporation's (the "Company" or "MeadWestvaco") Consumer & Office Products business and subsequent merger of that business with ACCO Brands Corporation ("ACCO Brands").
Effective May 1, 2012, MeadWestvaco completed the spin-off of its Consumer & Office Products business and subsequent merger of that business with ACCO Brands (the "Transaction"). As a result of the Transaction, MeadWestvaco shareholders received 0.32986547 shares of ACCO Brands for each share of MeadWestvaco they owned of record as of April 24, 2012, resulting in their collective ownership on May 1, 2012 of 50.5% of the issued and outstanding shares of ACCO Brands. Under the terms of the Transaction, including a working capital adjustment, MeadWestvaco received aggregate consideration of $433 million on a tax-free basis, subject to certain potential post-closing adjustments.
The unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 and for the three years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are based on the historical consolidated statements of operations and give effect to the Transaction as if it had occurred at the beginning of the earliest period presented. The unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet is based on the historical consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2012, and gives effect to the Transaction as if it had occurred on March 31, 2012.
The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements are based on the assumptions and adjustments described in the accompanying notes and do not reflect any adjustments for non-recurring items or changes in operating strategies arising as a result of the Transaction. However, in the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary to present fairly the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements have been made. The unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of operations are presented for illustrative purposes and do not purport to represent what results of operations actually would have been if the events described above had occurred as of the dates indicated or what such results would be for any future periods.
The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements, and the accompanying notes, should be read in conjunction with the Company's historical consolidated financial statements and related note disclosures, as well as "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2012.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of operations of MeadWestvaco for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 and for the three years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, are based on the historical consolidated statements of operations, and give effect to the Transaction as if it had occurred at the beginning of the earliest period presented. The unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet of the Company is based on the historical consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2012, and gives effect to the Transaction as if it had occurred on March 31, 2012.
These unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements are based on the assumptions and adjustments described below and do not reflect any adjustments for non-recurring items or changes in operating strategies arising as a result of the Transaction. However, in the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary to present fairly the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements have been made. These unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of operations are presented for illustrative purposes and do not purport to represent what our results of operations actually would have been if the events described above had occurred as of the dates indicated or what such results would be for any future periods.
These unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements, and the accompanying notes, should be read in conjunction with the company's historical consolidated financial statements and related note disclosures, as well as "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2012.
 
Pro forma adjustments to the unaudited consolidated financial statements are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 


