FILE:MWV/MWV-8K-20120306104259.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Senior Vice President of MeadWestvaco Corporation (the "Company"), Ms. Linda V. Schreiner, has established a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan (the "Trading Plan") to sell Company stock acquired through her exercise of employee stock options that will expire May 24, 2012. Her individual Trading Plan is described below.
Ms. Schreiner's Trading Plan provides for the sale of shares of Company stock that she may acquire upon exercise of employee stock options on 20,000 shares of Company stock for the purpose of covering the costs, taxes, fees and commissions that may be incurred upon the exercise of the employee stock options. The exercise price of those options is currently above the Company's stock price. Planned sales under her Trading Plan will commence no earlier than April 5, 2012, provided that the price of Company stock achieves specified levels. Her Trading Plan terminates on May 24, 2012, the date the employee stock options expire.
Ms. Schreiner's Trading Plan covers the exercise of approximately 5% of her outstanding vested employee stock options. Ms. Schreiner's Trading Plan will not impact her current holdings in Company stock, which is well above the Company's stock ownership guidelines for executives.
10b5-1 Plans Generally
The Trading Plan described above was adopted in accordance with guidelines specified under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the Company's policies regarding transactions in its securities. Rule 10b5-1 permits individuals who are not in possession of material, non-public information at the time the plan is adopted to establish pre-arranged plans to buy or sell company stock. Once a plan is established, the individual retains no discretion over purchases or sales under the plan, and the transactions are executed through a broker on or after specified dates, whether or not the individual subsequently acquires material non-public information about the Company.
Any transactions under this Trading Plan will be disclosed publicly through Form 144 and Form 4 filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission when due.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


