FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20030721164153.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Registrant's earnings release dated July 21, 2003, regarding its second quarter 2003 results of operations and financial condition attached hereto as Exhibit 99 is incorporated by reference herein. This information is being furnished under Item 12 of Form 8-K and is being presented under Item 9 in accordance with the Commission's interim guidance regarding Form 8-K Item 11 and Item 12 filing requirements, as set forth in Release No. 33-8216.
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: The statements contained in this report on Form 8-K are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the company or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see the text under the heading "Cautionary Statements Regarding Future Results of Operations" in Item 1 of TI's most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
News Release
C-03037
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: All results are reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
 
DALLAS (July 21, 2003)Texas Instruments Incorporated (NYSE: TXN) today reported that second-quarter revenue of $2339 million increased 7 percent sequentially due to seasonal growth in Educational & Productivity Solutions (E&PS) as well as growth in Semiconductor. Revenue grew 8 percent compared with the year-ago quarter due to growth in Semiconductor.
 
Semiconductor revenue increased 3 percent sequentially as growth from a broad range of semiconductor products offset a sequential decline in wireless. Compared with the year-ago quarter, Semiconductor revenue increased 9 percent due to growth in demand across most product lines.
 
Revenue from the wireless market was down 5 percent sequentially and was up 16 percent from the year-ago quarter. Despite the sequential decline, wireless revenue was higher than the company expected in its June 10 financial update due to strong customer demand during
 
the last few days of the quarter. Broadband revenue grew 44 percent on a sequential basis and 84 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. Analog revenue grew 5 percent sequentially and 4 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. DSP revenue was about even sequentially and grew 21 percent compared with the year-ago quarter.
 
Sensors & Controls revenue increased 3 percent sequentially and 4 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. In a seasonally strong quarter, E&PS revenue increased 104 percent sequentially and 4 percent compared with the year-ago period.
 
In the second quarter, the company incurred $49 million in restructuring charges. Of that total, $43 million is included in cost of revenue, and $6 million is in selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense. TI expects an additional $100 million in restructuring charges by the end of 2004. These charges are related to job reductions and will be distributed over the quarters in which jobs are eliminated. When completed, the restructuring actions are expected to result in about $105 million of annual savings, of which $65 million will be in Semiconductor and $40 million will be in Sensors & Controls.
 
Gross profit of $877 million increased 2 percent sequentially and 3 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. Gross profit margin was 37.5 percent of revenue, a decrease of 1.8 percentage points sequentially and 2.1 percentage points compared with the year-ago quarter primarily due to restructuring charges.
 
Research and development (R&D) expense of $424 million was up 4 percent sequentially and 5 percent compared with the year-ago quarter due to increased product development activity within Semiconductor, especially for wireless products.
 
SG&A expense of $328 million increased 9 percent sequentially and 10 percent compared with the year-ago period primarily due to higher G&A expenses, including lease termination and restructuring expenses. Seasonally higher E&PS marketing expenses also contributed to the sequential growth in SG&A.
 
Operating profit of $125 million, or 5.3 percent of revenue, decreased $28 million sequentially and $30 million compared with the year-ago quarter due to restructuring charges.
 
Other income (expense) net (OI&E) of $36 million includes interest income, investment gains (losses) and other items. OI&E increased sequentially and compared with the year-ago quarter due to lower net investment losses as well as a $10 million charge in the first quarter associated with the redemption of convertible notes originally issued by Burr-Brown Corporation, which was acquired by TI. Interest expense of $10 million declined on a sequential basis and compared with the year-ago quarter due to the company's lower debt level.
 
Net income in the quarter was $121 million, or $0.07 per share. The effective tax rate for the quarter was 20 percent, lower than previously expected due to a revision in the company's expected tax rate for the year and the resulting cumulative catch-up tax benefit of $3 million.
 
TI orders of $2311 million and Semiconductor orders of $1901 million in the second quarter were about even sequentially and compared with the year-ago period. The Semiconductor book-to-bill ratio was 0.99 for the second quarter, compared with 1.03 in the prior quarter.
 
"TI's revenue growth in the second quarter demonstrates the benefit of diversity in our products and markets as sequential growth across almost all of our major product lines more than offset a decline in wireless. We believe TI continues to gain share in critical markets, including broadband communications, digital signal processing and analog," said Tom Engibous, TI chairman, president and CEO.
 
"Important product milestones were reached during the quarter, including demonstration of the world's first 1-gigahertz DSP and the first product made using our new high-performance analog manufacturing process that provides best-in-class performance and integration benefits for precision data converters and amplifiers," Engibous said. "We also announced our entry into the CDMA wireless market with standard chipsets that we'll be sampling this quarter. Toward the end of the quarter, we announced selection of the site for our next 300-millimeter wafer fab, further establishing TI's position as one of the world's very few semiconductor companies with the manufacturing technology and financial strength to compete successfully over the long term."
 
Total cash (cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments and long-term cash investments) of $4183 million increased by $38 million compared with the end of the prior
 
quarter and increased by $709 million from the end of the year-ago quarter. Cash flow from operations increased to $378 million compared with $196 million in the prior quarter due to working capital, and decreased slightly compared with $387 million in the year-ago quarter. Capital expenditures were $162 million in the second quarter, up from $132 million in the first quarter and down from $177 million in the year-ago quarter.
 
Accounts receivable increased sequentially by $75 million due to seasonally higher sales of E&PS products. Accounts receivable were about even with the year-ago quarter. Days sales outstanding were 55 days at the end of the second quarter compared with 56 days in the prior quarter and 60 days in the year-ago quarter.
 
Inventory increased by $118 million sequentially primarily to support reduced product lead times. In addition, delays by certain wireless customers of product shipments from second quarter into third quarter and a normal seasonal increase in E&PS contributed to higher inventory. Compared with the year-ago quarter, inventory increased $180 million primarily due to the higher revenue level and to support reduced product leadtimes. Days of inventory increased to 62 days at the end of the second quarter compared with 60 days at the end of the prior quarter and 56 days at the end of the year-ago quarter
.
 
Outlook
 
TI intends to provide a mid-quarter update to its financial outlook on September 9 by issuing a press release and holding a conference call. Both will be available on the company's web site.
 
For the third quarter of 2003, TI expects total revenue to be in the range of $2290 million to $2490 million. Inside that total, Semiconductor revenue is expected to be in the range of $1890 million to $2050 million; Sensors & Controls revenue is expected to be in the range of $230 million to $250 million; and E&PS revenue is expected to be in the range of $170 million to $190 million.
 
TI expects earnings per share to be in the range of $0.19 to $0.23, including a $0.13 per share contribution from the company's previously announced sale of 24.7 million shares of Micron Technology, Inc. common stock. Restructuring charges in the third quarter are expected to be about $45 million.
 
For 2003, TI continues to expect: R&D to be about $1.7 billion capital expenditures to be about $800 million; and depreciation to be about $1.4 billion. The effective tax rate for the year is expected to be about 22 percent, exclusive of the tax impact of the Micron stock transaction, compared with the company's previous estimate of 24 percent.
;
 
 
 
* Income for the second quarter of 2003 includes, in millions of dollars, a charge of $49, of which $26 is for the initial phase of restructuring associated with moving certain production lines in the Sensors & Controls business from Attleboro to other TI sites and $23 is for the initial phase of restructuring to achieve manufacturing efficiencies in the Semiconductor business. The $49 restructuring charge is primarily for severance cost. Of the $49, $43 is included in cost of revenue and $6 is in selling, general and administrative expense. Income for the first quarter of 2003 includes, in millions of dollars, a charge of $10 in other income (expense) net from the redemption of $250 million in convertible notes. Income for the second quarter of 2002 includes, in millions of dollars, net gains of $16, of which $20 is the reversal of a warranty reserve taken against the gain on the sale of the software business unit in 1997 because the warranty period had expired. Of the $16 net gains, $20 is included in other income, $5 is in selling, general and administrative expense, $2 is a reduction in cost of revenue and $1 is in research and development expense.
 
Income includes, in millions of dollars, acquisition-related amortization of $25, $28 and $29 for the second and first quarters of 2003 and the second quarter of 2002.
 
** Diluted earnings per common share are based on average common and dilutive potential common shares outstanding (1762.6 million shares, 1753.4 million shares and 1774.4 million shares for the second and first quarters of 2003 and the second quarter of 2002).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Semiconductor
 
 
 
 
quarter due to a $30 million catch-up royalty in the second quarter of 2002 from a new semiconductor cross-license agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2Q Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sensors & Controls
 
 
 
 
Educational & Productivity Solutions (E&PS)
 
 
 
 
Additional Financial Information
 
 
 
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "foresees," "forecasts," "estimates" or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, such statements in this report that describe the company's business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the company or its management:
 
 -  Market demand for semiconductors, particularly for digital signal processors and analog chips in key markets, such as telecommunications and computers;
 
 -  TI's ability to maintain or improve profit margins, including its ability to utilize its manufacturing facilities at sufficient levels to cover its fixed operating costs, in an intensely competitive and cyclical industry;
 
 -  TI's ability to develop, manufacture and market innovative products in a rapidly changing technological environment;
 
 -  TI's ability to compete in products and prices in an intensely competitive industry;
 
 -  TI's ability to maintain and enforce a strong intellectual property portfolio and obtain needed licenses from third parties;
 
 -  Consolidation of TI's patent licensees and market conditions reducing royalty payments to TI;
 
 -  Timely completion and successful integration of announced acquisitions;
 
 -  Economic, social and political conditions in the countries in which TI, its customers or its suppliers operate, including security risks, possible disruptions in transportation networks and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;
 
 -  Losses or curtailments of purchases from key customers or the timing of customer inventory adjustments;
 
 -  Availability of raw materials and critical manufacturing equipment;
 
 -  TI's ability to recruit and retain skilled personnel;
 
 -  Fluctuations in the market value of TI's investments and in interest rates; and
 
 -  Timely implementation of new manufacturing technologies and installation of manufacturing equipment.
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading "Cautionary Statements Regarding Future Results of Operations" in Item 1 of the company's most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this report are made only as of the date of publication, and the company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Texas Instruments Incorporated provides innovative DSP and Analog technologies to meet our customers' real world signal processing requirements. In addition to Semiconductor, the company's businesses include Sensors & Controls and Educational & Productivity Solutions. TI is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and has manufacturing, design or sales operations in more than 25 countries.
 
Texas Instruments is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TXN. More information is located on the World Wide Web at .
www.ti.com
 
TI Trademarks:
Digital Light Processing
DLP
OMAP
 
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 


