FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20030415161749.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7. Exhibits
 
 
ITEM 9. Regulation FD Disclosure (ITEM 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition)
 
The Registrant's earnings release dated April 15, 2003, regarding its first quarter 2003 results of operations and financial condition attached hereto as Exhibit 99 is incorporated by reference herein. This information is being furnished under Item 12 of Form 8-K and is being presented under Item 9 in accordance with the Commission's interim guidance regarding Form 8-K Item 11 and Item 12 filing requirements, as set forth in Release No. 33-8216.
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: The statements contained in this report on Form 8-K are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the company or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see the text under the heading "Cautionary Statements Regarding Future Results of Operations" in Item 1 of TI's most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
.
Note:
All results are reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP
 
DALLAS (April 15, 2003)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (NYSE: TXN) today reported that first-quarter revenue increased 2 percent sequentially and 20 percent compared with the year-ago period due to growth in Semiconductor. Higher Semiconductor factory utilization and lower depreciation expense contributed to an increase in earnings.
 
Semiconductor revenue grew 2 percent sequentially due to higher shipments of digital signal processors (DSP) and Digital Light Processing
TM
(DLP
TM
) products Compared with the year-ago quarter, Semiconductor revenue increased 23 percent due to growth in DSP, Analog and DLP productsDSP revenue grew 6 percent sequentially and 31 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. Analog revenue declined 4 percent sequentially and grew 15 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. Revenue from the wireless market was about even with the fourth quarter and increased 39 percent from the year-ago quarter.
.
.
 
Sensors & Controls revenue increased 5 percent sequentially and 11 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. Educational & Productivity Solutions (E&PS) revenue declined 2 percent sequentially and 10 percent compared with the year-ago period.
 
 
Gross profit of $862 million increased 12 percent sequentially and 41 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. Gross profit margin expanded to 39.3 percent of revenue, an increase of 3.5 percentage points sequentially and 5.9 percentage points compared with the year-ago quarter. Higher Semiconductor factory utilization levels and lower depreciation expense were responsible for the higher gross profit and margin.
 
Research and development (R&D) expense of $408 million was about even sequentially and increased 5 percent compared with the year-ago quarter due to increased product development activity in Semiconductor, especially for wireless products.
 
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense of $301 million increased 4 percent sequentially and 13 percent from the year-ago period primarily due to higher sales and marketing expenses.
 
Operating profit of $153 million, or 7.0 percent of revenue, increased $86 million sequentially and $197 million compared with the year-ago quarter. The increase in operating profit was primarily due to gains in Semiconductor.
 
Other income (expense) net (OI&E) of $14 million includes interest income, investment gains (losses) and other items. OI&E in the first quarter increased sequentially and compared with the year-ago quarter. In the fourth quarter of 2002, the company recorded a $638 million non-cash write-down of its Micron Technology, Inc. common stock, which TI received in connection with the sale of its memory business unit to Micron in 1998. The write-down reduced fourth-quarter earnings per share (EPS) by $0.37. Interest expense of $13 million decreased on a sequential basis and compared with the year-ago quarter primarily due to the company's lower debt level.
 
Net income in the quarter was $117 million, or $0.07 per share. The effective tax rate for the quarter was 24 percent. In line with the company's outlook issued in the fourth-quarter earnings announcement, the first quarter's results include $28 million of amortization of acquisition-
 
related costs and a $10 million charge associated with the redemption of $250 million in convertible notes. These notes were issued in February of 2000 by Burr-Brown Corporation, which was acquired by TI in August of 2000.
 
Orders of $2295 million in the first quarter increased 10 percent sequentially and 20 percent from the year-ago period. Semiconductor orders of $1914 million increased 9 percent sequentially and 24 percent from the year-ago period. Semiconductor book-to-bill rose to 1.03 compared with 0.96 in the previous quarter.
 
"TI's semiconductor position strengthened in the first quarter as we introduced the world's fastest DSP, the world's first fully functional wireless digital baseband made with 90-nanometer process technology and the world's first concept design for integrating three different wireless technologies - Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and 2.5G - in personal digital devices," said Tom Engibous, TI chairman, president and CEO. "TI's momentum was reflected in market share gains for 2002 in both DSP and Analog. We have noted before that revenue growth in our Semiconductor business would fall through to profit margins at a high rate, and we saw that in the first quarter. Semiconductor gross margin rose to 40 percent, and operating margin gained more than 300 basis points."
 
 
Total cash (cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments and long-term cash investments) of $4145 million was about even with the end of the prior quarter and increased by $696 million from the year-ago quarter. Cash flow from operations decreased to $196 million compared with $744 million in the prior quarter and $296 million in the year-ago quarter due to a tax refund in the year-ago quarter as well as an increase in the first quarter of 2003 in accounts receivable and inventory levels. Capital expenditures were $132 million in the first quarter, down from $236 million in the fourth quarter and up from $120 million in the year-ago quarter.
 
Accounts receivable of $1365 million increased sequentially by $148 million due to stronger end-of-quarter shipments in the first quarter compared with the fourth quarter. Accounts receivable increased from $1159 million in the year-ago quarter due to the higher revenue level. Days sales outstanding were 56 days at the end of the first quarter compared with 51 days in the prior quarter and 57 days in the year-ago quarter.
 
Inventory increased to $882 million, up $92 million sequentially and up $114 million compared with the year-ago quarter primarily because Semiconductor increased work-in-process inventory levels to support anticipated higher shipments in the second quarter. Days of inventory increased to 60 days at the end of the first quarter from 52 days at the end of the prior quarter and 57 days in the year-ago quarter
.
 
Regarding the current market environment, Engibous said: "Semiconductor markets have improved significantly from the lows of 2001, but with the uncertainties of world economies we remain prudent in our planning, continuing to preserve both the technological and financial competitiveness of our various businesses with sustained levels of R&D investments and tight controls on costs. Throughout all of our business and support functions, we are working to make sure our costs are better than or on par with industry benchmarks. This will sometimes require difficult decisions that affect jobs."
 
Outlook
 
For the second quarter of 2003, TI expects sequential revenue growth of about 7 percent. Inside that total, Semiconductor is expected to contribute about 4 percent sequential growth; Sensors & Controls is expected to be about even with first quarter; and E&PS is expected to seasonally increase about 100 percent.
 
 
TI expects operating profit margin in the second quarter to be about 7 percent and EPS to be about $0.08, plus or minus a few cents. This includes the restructuring charge and amortization expense described below.
 
TI will incur a restructuring charge of about $40 million in the second quarter that impacts EPS by about $0.02. This charge is primarily for the first phase of restructuring actions that ultimately will affect about 800 jobs through voluntary retirement and involuntary termination programs over the next two years primarily at the Attleboro, Mass., headquarters of the Sensors & Controls business. Sensors & Controls is moving certain production lines from Attleboro to other TI sites in order to be geographically closer to customers and their markets and to reduce manufacturing costs. This action is part of continuing work to preserve the strength and competitiveness of Sensors & Controls, which will maintain its worldwide headquarters in Attleboro and will, over time, add engineering and business development jobs at this site. To a lesser degree, the charge also includes the first phase of restructuring actions that ultimately will affect about 450 jobs in Semiconductor manufacturing operations in the U.S. and international locations, as those operations continue to become more productive with fewer people. The reduction of jobs in Sensors & Controls will occur through the end of 2004, and the reduction of jobs in Semiconductor will occur through the middle of 2004. Over this period of time, the company expects additional charges associated with these actions to total about $60 million and will distribute them over the quarters in which the jobs are eliminated. When complete, these restructuring actions are expected to result in about $80 million of annualized savings, of which $45 million will be in Semiconductor and $35 million will be in Sensors & Controls.
 
Amortization of acquisition-related costs is expected to be about $26 million in the second quarter.
 
 
For 2003, TI continues to expect: R&D to be about $1.7 billion capital expenditures to be about $800 million; and depreciation to be about $1.4 billion. The effective tax rate is expected to be about 24 percent, unchanged from the company's previous estimate.
;
 
 
 
 
* Net income for the first quarter of 2003 includes, in millions of dollars, a charge of $10 in other income (expense) net from the redemption of $250 million in convertible notes. Net income (loss) for the first quarter of 2002 includes, in millions of dollars, a charge of $17, of which $14 is for restructuring charges primarily related to the closing of the Semiconductor manufacturing facility in Merrimack, New Hampshire. Of the $14, $9 is for the acceleration of depreciation over the remaining service life of the facility, and $4 is for fixed asset write-downs for assets held for sale. Of the $17 charge, $16 is included in cost of revenue and $1 is in other income (expense) net. Net income (loss) for the fourth quarter of 2002 includes, in millions of dollars, a write-down due to an other-than-temporary reduction in value of $638 below basis in the company's holdings in Micron Technology, Inc. (Micron) common stock acquired in connection with the sale of its memory business unit to Micron in 1998, and a charge of $17 for severance costs, of which $13 is associated with the reduction of 434 jobs, primarily in the manufacturing area, to align resources with market demand. Of the $17 charge, $11 is included in cost of revenue, $4 is in selling, general and administrative expense and $2 is in research and development expense.
 
Net income (loss) includes, in millions of dollars, acquisition-related amortization of $28 for all quarters presented.
 
 
** Diluted earnings (loss) per common share are based on average common and dilutive potential common shares outstanding (1753.4 million shares, 1734.4 million shares and 1731.6 million shares for the first quarter of 2003 and first and fourth quarters of 2002). For the first and fourth quarters of 2002, dilutive potential common shares outstanding have been excluded due to the net loss for the period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Semiconductor
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1Q Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sensors & Controls
 
 
 
 
Educational & Productivity Solutions (E&PS)
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Financial Information
 
 
 
 
"Safe Harbor" Statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "foresees," "forecasts," "estimates" or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, such statements in this report that describe the company's business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the company or its management:
 
    Market demand for semiconductors, particularly for digital signal processors and analog chips in key markets, such as telecommunications and computers;
 
    TI's ability to maintain or improve profit margins, including its ability to utilize its manufacturing facilities at sufficient levels to cover its fixed operating costs, in an intensely competitive and cyclical industry;
 
    TI's ability to develop, manufacture and market innovative products in a rapidly changing technological environment;
 
    TI's ability to compete in products and prices in an intensely competitive industry;
 
    TI's ability to maintain and enforce a strong intellectual property portfolio and obtain needed licenses from third parties;
 
    Consolidation of TI's patent licensees and market conditions reducing royalty payments to TI;
 
    Timely completion and successful integration of announced acquisitions;
 
    Economic, social and political conditions in the countries in which TI, its customers or its suppliers operate, including security risks, possible disruptions in transportation networks and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;
 
    Losses or curtailments of purchases from key customers or the timing of customer inventory adjustments;
 
    Availability of raw materials and critical manufacturing equipment;
 
    TI's ability to recruit and retain skilled personnel;
 
    Fluctuations in the market value of TI's investments and in interest rates; and
 
    Timely implementation of new manufacturing technologies and installation of manufacturing equipment.
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading "Cautionary Statements Regarding Future Results of Operations" in Item 1 of the company's most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this report are made only as of the date of publication, and the company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Texas Instruments Incorporated provides innovative DSP and Analog technologies to meet our customers' real world signal processing requirements. In addition to Semiconductor, the company's businesses include Sensors & Controls and Educational & Productivity Solutions. TI is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and has manufacturing, design or sales operations in more than 25 countries.
 
Texas Instruments is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TXN. More information is located on the World Wide Web at .
www.ti.com
 
TI Trademarks:
Digital Light Processing
DLP
OMAP
 
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 


