FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20030505082728.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
The Registrant ("TI" or "the company") re-confirms its outlook for the second quarter of 2003 as set forth below and as originally set forth in the company's earnings release on April 15, 2003. This re-confirmation is being made for purposes of Regulation FD only and is not an indication or assessment of materiality, nor is it intended to constitute a representation that the information is not otherwise publicly available.
 
For the second quarter of 2003, TI expects sequential revenue growth of about 7 percent. Inside that total, Semiconductor is expected to contribute about 4 percent sequential growth; Sensors & Controls is expected to be about even with first quarter; and Educational & Productivity Solutions is expected to seasonally increase about 100 percent.
 
TI expects operating profit margin in the second quarter to be about 7 percent and earnings per share (EPS) to be about $0.08, plus or minus a few cents.
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: The statements contained in this report on Form 8-K are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the company or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see the text under the heading "Cautionary Statements Regarding Future Results of Operations" in Item 1 of TI's most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


