FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20040607163705.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7. Exhibits
 
 
ITEM 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
The Registrant's news release dated June 7, 2004, regarding the Registrant's outlook for the second quarter of 2004 attached hereto as Exhibit 99 is incorporated by reference herein.
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: The statements contained in this report on Form 8-K are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the company or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see the text under the heading "Cautionary Statements Regarding Future Results of Operations" in Item 1 of TI's most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
News Release
C-04030
 
 
 
 
 
DALLAS (June 7, 2004)  In a scheduled update to its business outlook for the second quarter of 2004, Texas Instruments Incorporated (NYSE: TXN) today narrowed its expected revenue and earnings ranges. TI's updated estimate reflects continuing strong demand across a broad range of its Semiconductor products, as well as seasonal growth in its educational calculators.
 
The company's expectations for revenue are:
 
 
 
 
 
TI expects earnings per share (EPS) between $0.24 and $0.26, compared with the previous range of $0.23 to $0.26.
 
The company will hold a conference call at 4 p.m. CDT today to discuss this update. This conference call will be available live at .
www.ti.com
TI's original second-quarter outlook was published in the company's first-quarter 2004 earnings release on April 14, available at . TI's second quarter ends on June 30.
www.ti.com
 
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "foresees," "forecasts," "estimates" or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this release that describe the company's business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the company or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading "Cautionary Statements Regarding Future Results of Operations" in Item 1 of the company's most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of publication, and the company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Texas Instruments Incorporated provides innovative DSP and Analog technologies to meet our customers' real world signal processing requirements. In addition to Semiconductor, the company's businesses include Sensors & Controls and Educational & Productivity Solutions. TI is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and has manufacturing, design or sales operations in more than 25 countries.
 
Texas Instruments is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TXN. More information is located on the World Wide Web at .
www.ti.com


