FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20040720163841.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7. Exhibits
 
 
ITEM 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
The Registrant's earnings release dated July 20, 2004 regarding its second quarter results of operations and financial condition attached hereto as Exhibit 99 is incorporated by reference herein.
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: The statements contained in this report on Form 8-K are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the company or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see the text under the heading "Cautionary Statements Regarding Future Results of Operations" in Item 1 of TI's most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
News Release
C-04037
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DALLAS (July 20, 2004)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today reported second-quarter 2004 revenue of $3241 million, an increase of 10 percent sequentially and 39 percent from the year-ago quarter primarily due to strength in TI's Semiconductor business. Earnings per share (EPS) were $0.25.
 
Semiconductor revenue increased 8 percent sequentially and 44 percent from the year-ago quarter primarily due to strong demand for digital signal processors (DSPs) and analog products used in a broad range of electronic equipment. Record revenue was achieved in several Semiconductor operations, including wireless, which grew 15 percent sequentially; high-performance analog, which grew 13 percent sequentially; and Digital Light Processing
TM
(DLP), which grew 10 percent sequentially.
 
"Revenue growth was excellent," said Rich Templeton, TI president and chief executive officer. "We believe our Semiconductor business has gained market share in both the first and second quarters of 2004, building on TI's annual market share gains achieved in 2002 and 2003.
This reflects the strength we've built in our advanced technology and the relationships we're developing with customers.
 
"In particular, this was an important quarter for our wireless operations, with growth across a broad base of customers and a broad mix of our products," Templeton said. "Digital baseband modems for W-CDMA 3G cell phones have emerged as a significant growth contributor, accounting for about one-fourth of sequential wireless revenue growth in the second quarter. In addition, the latest research from market analyst IDC shows that our OMAP
TM
processors garnered two-thirds of the rapidly growing market for wireless application processors in 2003. The company's strength in modems and application processors has given us the early lead in the W-CDMA cell phone market. Underscoring the importance of this technology combination, TI and 3G service leader NTT DoCoMo announced plans to integrate next-generation OMAP 2 application processors with digital baseband modems to support the UMTS standard, which is based on W-CDMA and is expected to be the prevalent worldwide standard for 3G wireless phones," Templeton said.
 
"2004 is on course to be a very strong year. TI's Semiconductor revenue in the second quarter was higher than it has ever been, and the company's operating profit is approaching an all-time record. With stable depreciation and a lower expected profit-sharing accrual next year, TI is well positioned to continue to deliver higher levels of profitability as revenue expands," Templeton said.
 
Details of Financial Results
 
Revenue
 
In the second quarter, TI revenue of $3241 million increased $305 million sequentially and $902 million from the year-ago quarter.
 
Gross Profit
 
Gross profit of $1481 million increased 12 percent sequentially and 69 percent from the year-ago quarter. Gross profit margin was 45.7 percent of revenue, up 0.7 percentage points sequentially and 8.2 percentage points from the year-ago quarter. Gross profit and gross profit margin benefited primarily from higher revenue.
 
Operating Expenses
 
Research and development (R&D) expense was $514 million, or 15.8 percent of revenue, compared with $494 million, or 16.8 percent of revenue in the prior quarter. R&D expense was $424 million, or 18.1 percent of revenue, in the year-ago quarter. The higher R&D expense is a result of increased product development activity in Semiconductor, especially for wireless products, as well as a higher profit-sharing accrual.
 
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense was $375 million, or 11.6 percent of revenue, compared with $354 million, or 12.0 percent of revenue, in the prior quarter. The increase was primarily due to a higher profit-sharing accrual as well as seasonally higher marketing expense in the company's Educational & Productivity Solutions (E&PS) business. In the year-ago quarter, SG&A expense was $328 million, or 14.0 percent of revenue, with the increase primarily due to the profit-sharing accrual.
 
Operating Profit
 
Operating profit of $592 million, or 18.3 percent of revenue, increased $118 million sequentially and $467 million compared with the year-ago quarter primarily due to higher gross profit that more than offset higher operating expenses.
 
Second-quarter results include a higher profit-sharing accrual, which contains a cumulative catch-up, compared with the first quarter, reflecting an upward adjustment in the company's expectations for its 2004 performance. There was no profit-sharing accrual in the year-ago quarter. Profit sharing is allocated across cost of revenue, SG&A and R&D. Profit sharing is expected to decline in 2005 compared with 2004 and will reflect a new TI employee profit-sharing plan.
 
Other Income (Expense) Net (OI&E) and Interest Expense
 
OI&E of $38 million decreased $12 million from the prior quarter and increased $2 million compared with the year-ago quarter.
 
Interest expense of $8 million was even sequentially and declined $2 million from the year-ago quarter.
 
Net Income
 
Net income was $441 million, or $0.25 per share, an increase of $74 million sequentially and $320 million from the year-ago quarter due to higher operating profit.
 
Orders
 
TI orders of $3253 million increased 1 percent sequentially. Compared with the year-ago quarter, orders increased 41 percent due to strength in Semiconductor. Semiconductor orders were $2762 million, down 2 percent sequentially. Compared with the year-ago quarter, Semiconductor orders increased 45 percent due to broad-based demand for the company's products.
 
Cash
 
At the end of the second quarter, total cash (cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments and long-term cash investments) was $5534 million.
 
Cash flow from operations was $506 million, up $113 million sequentially and $128 million compared with the year-ago quarter.
 
Capital Expenditures and Depreciation
 
Capital expenditures of $356 million decreased $45 million sequentially and increased $194 million from the year-ago quarter. TI's capital expenditures in the second quarter were used primarily to increase capacity for assembly and test operations, and for 90-nanometer wafer fabrication.
 
Depreciation of $363 million increased $15 million sequentially and $7 million from the year-ago quarter.
 
Accounts Receivable and Inventory
 
Accounts receivable of $1930 million increased $252 million sequentially due to higher revenue and seasonally higher E&PS receivables. Accounts receivable increased $490 million from the end of the year-ago quarter due to higher revenue. Days sales outstanding were 54 at the end of the second quarter, compared with 51 at the end of the prior quarter and 55 at the end of the year-ago quarter.
 
Inventory of $1285 million at the end of the second quarter increased $137 million sequentially and $285 million from the year-ago quarter as the company continued to build inventory to targeted levels, especially in standard products, to support customer plans for the
 
second half of the year and to ensure the company's ability to respond to upside potential. Days of inventory at the end of the second quarter were 66, compared with 64 days at the end of the prior quarter and 62 days at the end of the year-ago quarter.
 
Debt
 
At the end of the second quarter, TI's debt-to-total-capital ratio was 0.06, unchanged from the end of the prior quarter. In the third quarter, TI's $400 million 7 percent notes will mature and will be paid using available cash.
 
Outlook
 
TI intends to provide a mid-quarter update to its financial outlook on September 8 by issuing a press release and holding a conference call. Both will be available on the company's web site.
 
For the third quarter of 2004, TI expects revenue to be in the following ranges:
 
 
 
 
 
TI expects earnings per share to be in the range of $0.26 to $0.29.
 
For 2004, TI continues to expect: R&D to be about $2.1 billion; capital expenditures to be about $1.3 billion; and depreciation to be about $1.5 billion.
 
The effective tax rate for the year is expected to be about 29 percent, unchanged from the prior estimate.
 
 
 
Income includes, in millions of dollars, acquisition-related amortization of $19, $19 and $25 for the second quarter and first quarter of 2004 and the second quarter of 2003.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Semiconductor
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Semiconductor Highlights
 
 
 
 
Sensors & Controls
 
 
 
 
Educational & Productivity Solutions (E&PS)
 
 
 
 
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "foresees," "forecasts," "estimates" or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this release that describe the company's business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the company or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading "Cautionary Statements Regarding Future Results of Operations" in Item 1 of the company's most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of publication, and the company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Texas Instruments Incorporated provides innovative DSP and analog technologies to meet our customers' real world signal processing requirements. In addition to Semiconductor, the company's businesses include Sensors & Controls and Educational & Productivity Solutions. TI is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and has manufacturing, design or sales operations in more than 25 countries.
 
Texas Instruments is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TXN. More information is located on the World Wide Web at .
www.ti.com
 
TI Trademarks:
    OMAP
    Digital Light Processing
    DLP
 
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 


