FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20041018164013.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
The Registrant's earnings release dated October 18, 2004 regarding its third quarter results of operations and financial condition attached hereto as Exhibit 99 is incorporated by reference herein.
 
ITEM 9.01. Exhibits
 
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: The statements contained in this report on Form 8-K are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the company or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see the text under the heading "Cautionary Statements Regarding Future Results of Operations" in Item 1 of TI's most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
News Release
C-04047
 
 
 
 
 
 
DALLAS (Oct. 18, 2004)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today reported third-quarter 2004 revenue of $3250 million, about even with the second quarter and up 28 percent from the year-ago quarter. Revenue from the company's wireless and Digital Light Processing
TM
(DLP
TM
) semiconductor products reached record levels for the second consecutive quarter. Strong sequential growth in these areas offset declines in other areas, primarily in standard products, which were affected by ongoing inventory adjustments, especially in distribution channels.
 
Compared with the third quarter of last year, the increase in TI's revenue reflected double-digit growth across all the company's major Semiconductor operations, with particularly strong contributions from wireless, DLP and high-performance analog products.
 
In the segments of TI's business, Semiconductor revenue was even sequentially and up 31 percent from a year ago. Sensors & Controls revenue seasonally declined 5 percent from the prior quarter, and increased 14 percent from the year-ago period due to broad-based demand. Educational & Productivity Solutions (E&PS) revenue increased 13 percent sequentially primarily due to seasonal back-to-school demand, and 8 percent from the year-ago period primarily due to strong retail demand for new graphing calculators.
Earnings per share (EPS) of $0.32 include benefits from taxes, which the company discussed in its mid-quarter update on Sept. 8, 2004. Earnings were better than anticipated in the mid-quarter update primarily because the company had higher non-operating income, operating expenses were further reduced, and revenue strengthened late in the quarter.
 
"TI's operating profit in the third quarter more than doubled from a year ago to reach an all-time high," said Rich Templeton, TI president and chief executive officer. "The value of TI's diverse product portfolio was evident as weaker revenue from standard products was offset by record revenue from both wireless and DLP products. In wireless, TI has achieved early leadership in the UMTS market, which is widely expected to be the prevalent global standard for 3G. A strong majority of these 3G cell phones are based on TI digital signal processors. Likewise, in the nascent market for digital televisions, our DLP technology is now outselling plasma in the North American market for big-screen TVs.
 
"Nonetheless, the environment is not without challenges. In the third quarter, distributors and customers adjusted semiconductor inventories, and these adjustments have continued into the fourth quarter. In response, we have taken quick actions to sharply reduce production loadings, which should enable us to exit the year with lower inventory levels. We also tightened expense controls across the board," he said.
"In this more uncertain environment, it is important to note that TI's operational flexibility has resulted in a more stable financial model for the company. Our manufacturing strategy combines internal and foundry capacity so that TI's most capital-intensive, advanced-logic factories remain highly utilized as the market expands and contracts. This strategy proved successful in the third quarter as utilization in TI's advanced-logic factories remained high. In addition, this strategy has allowed us to reduce capital spending. TI's capital expenditures in each year since 2001 have been lower as a percent of revenue than any in the past decade," he said.
 
"I am very confident in TI's position and future. Cash flow is high, our long-term prospects are excellent, and our balance sheet is strong. To increase the return we deliver shareholders, in the quarter we announced plans for a $1 billion share repurchase and a 17 percent higher dividend," Templeton said.
 
Details of Financial Results
 
Revenue
 
In the third quarter, TI revenue of $3250 million increased $9 million sequentially and $717 million from the year-ago quarter.
 
Gross Profit
 
Gross profit of $1489 million, or 45.8 percent of revenue, was about even sequentially. A reduction in the profit-sharing accrual was offset by the higher expense that resulted from lower utilization of Semiconductor's manufacturing assets, particularly for production of analog products. Compared with the year-ago quarter, gross profit increased by $459 million, or 45 percent, as a result of higher revenue.
Operating Expenses
 
Research and development (R&D) expense of $483 million, or 14.9 percent of revenue, declined $31 million compared with the prior quarter primarily due to the lower profit-sharing accrual, as well as additional expense reductions. R&D expense increased from $468 million in the year-ago quarter due to higher product development expenses in Semiconductor, especially for wireless products.
 
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense was $349 million, or 10.7 percent of revenue, down $26 million compared with the prior quarter due to the lower profit-sharing accrual. SG&A expense increased from $313 million in the year-ago quarter primarily due to higher marketing expenses, particularly in Semiconductor.
 
Operating Profit
 
Operating profit of $657 million, or 20.2 percent of revenue, increased $65 million sequentially due to lower operating expenses. Compared with the year-ago quarter, operating profit increased $408 million due to higher gross profit.
 
As discussed in the Sept. 8, 2004, update to the company's outlook, third-quarter results include a lower profit-sharing accrual compared with the second quarter, reflecting a downward adjustment in the company's expectations for its 2004 performance. The adjustment resulted in a cumulative reduction in the profit-sharing accrual in the third quarter. There was no profit-sharing accrual in the year-ago quarter. Profit sharing is allocated across cost of revenue, SG&A and R&D.
Other Income (Expense) Net (OI&E) and Interest Expense
 
OI&E of $62 million increased $24 million from the prior quarter due to the partial settlement of matters related to grants from the Italian government regarding TI's former memory business operations. Compared with the year-ago quarter, OI&E decreased $81 million due to a pre-tax gain of $106 million recorded in the third-quarter of 2003 related to the company's sale of Micron Technology, Inc. common stock.
 
Interest expense of $4 million declined $4 million from the second and year-ago quarters due to the company's lower debt level.
 
Net Income
 
Net income was $563 million, or $0.32 per share, an increase of $122 million sequentially due to higher operating profit, as well as lower taxes. Compared with the year-ago quarter, net income increased $116 million primarily due to higher operating profit, which more than offset lower OI&E and higher taxes. The year-ago quarter included the recognition of a previously reserved tax benefit of $162 million associated with TI's impairment write-down of Micron stock in the fourth quarter of 2002.
 
As discussed in the Sept. 8, 2004, update to the company's outlook, the expected annual tax rate was revised to 26 percent as of the end of the third quarter, primarily due to an increase in the estimated U.S. tax benefit for export sales. Net income in the quarter reflects an effective quarterly tax rate of 21 percent due to the cumulative reduction in tax expense.
Orders
 
TI orders of $3019 million decreased 7 percent sequentially primarily due to lower demand for Semiconductor products, as well as a seasonal decline in E&PS demand. Compared with the year-ago quarter, TI orders increased 13 percent due to higher demand for Semiconductor products. Semiconductor orders were $2623 million, down 5 percent sequentially primarily due to lower demand for standard products sold through distribution channels, which more than offset higher demand for wireless and DLP products. Compared with the year-ago quarter, Semiconductor orders increased 14 percent due to higher demand across a broad range of products.
 
Cash
 
At the end of the third quarter, total cash (cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments and long-term cash investments) was $5617 million. In the third quarter, as previously announced, TI redeemed $400 million of 7 percent notes that matured during the quarter.
 
Cash flow from operations was $942 million, up $436 million sequentially and $432 million compared with the year-ago quarter.
Capital Expenditures and Depreciation
 
Capital expenditures of $330 million decreased $26 million sequentially and increased $97 million from the year-ago quarter. TI's capital expenditures in the third quarter were used primarily to increase capacity for assembly and test operations, and for 90-nanometer wafer fabrication.
 
Depreciation of $378 million increased $15 million sequentially and $22 million from the year-ago quarter.
 
Accounts Receivable and Inventory
 
Accounts receivable of $1965 million increased $35 million sequentially due to higher shipments in the last month of the third quarter compared with the last month of the second quarter. Accounts receivable increased $443 million from the end of the year-ago quarter due to higher revenue. Days sales outstanding were 54 at the end of the third quarter, the same as the end of the prior and year-ago quarters.
 
Inventory of $1356 million at the end of the third quarter increased $71 million sequentially primarily due to wireless products being manufactured to support expected seasonally higher shipments early in the fourth quarter. In addition, inventory growth reflects factory loadings that were made in anticipation of higher third-quarter demand that failed in part to materialize, partially offset by sharp reductions in loadings that were made later in the quarter. Compared with the year-ago quarter, inventory increased $361 million as the company built inventory to support higher shipments, as well as to support the company's targets for lead times and on-time deliveries. Days of inventory at the end of the third quarter were 69, compared with 66 days at the end of the prior quarter and 60 days at the end of the year-ago quarter.
Debt
 
At the end of the third quarter, TI's debt-to-total-capital ratio was 0.03, down from 0.06 at the end of the prior quarter.
 
Outlook
 
TI intends to provide a mid-quarter update to its financial outlook on Dec. 7, 2004, by issuing a press release and holding a conference call. Both will be available on the company's web site.
 
For the fourth quarter of 2004, TI expects revenue to be in the following ranges:
 
 
 
 
 
TI expects earnings per share to be in the range of $0.24 to $0.28.
 
For 2004, TI expects: R&D to be about $2.0 billion compared with the prior estimate of $2.1 billion; capital expenditures to be about $1.3 billion, unchanged from the previous estimate; and depreciation to be about $1.5 billion, unchanged from the previous estimate.
 
For 2004, the effective tax rate is expected to be about 25 percent, which reflects the reinstatement of the federal research tax credit that was signed into law on Oct. 4, 2004. The effect of the reinstated credit is not included in the company's third-quarter results because GAAP requires that companies use the law in effect at the end of the quarter when determining tax rates. Therefore, in the fourth quarter, TI expects an effective quarterly tax rate of about 21 percent, which represents the cumulative reduction in tax expense resulting from the change in the company's effective annual tax rate.
 
 
Income includes, in millions of dollars, acquisition-related amortization of $16, $19 and $26 for the third quarter and second quarter of 2004 and the third quarter of 2003.
 
 
 
 
 
Semiconductor
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Semiconductor Highlights
 
 
 
 
Sensors & Controls
 
 
 
Educational & Productivity Solutions (E&PS)
 
 
 
 
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "foresees," "forecasts," "estimates" or other words or phrases of similar
import. Similarly, statements in this release that describe the company's business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the company or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading "Cautionary Statements Regarding Future Results of Operations" in Item 1 of the company's most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of publication, and the company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Texas Instruments Incorporated provides innovative DSP and analog technologies to meet our customers' real world signal processing requirements. In addition to Semiconductor, the company's businesses include Sensors & Controls and Educational & Productivity Solutions. TI is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and has manufacturing, design or sales operations in more than 25 countries.
Texas Instruments is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TXN. More information is located on the World Wide Web at .
www.ti.com
 
TI Trademarks:
 
OMAP
Digital Light Processing
DLP
 
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


