FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20050418164154.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
The Registrant's earnings release dated April 18, 2005, regarding its first quarter 2005 results of operations and financial condition attached hereto as Exhibit 99 is incorporated by reference herein.
 
ITEM 9.01. Exhibits
 
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "foresees," "forecasts," "estimates" or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this report that describe the Company's business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the Company or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading "Cautionary Statements Regarding Future Results of Operations" in Item 1 of the Company's most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DALLAS (April 18, 2005)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today reported revenue for the first quarter of 2005 of $2972 million, about even with the year-ago period. Sequentially, revenue decreased 6 percent as gains in the company's Sensors & Controls and Educational & Productivity Solutions (E&PS) businesses were more than offset by an expected decline in Semiconductor.
 
Sequentially, TI's gross and operating profit margins increased despite the decline in revenue. TI's gross profit margin expanded 2.6 percentage points to 44.9 percent of revenue, and TI's operating margin increased 1.3 percentage points to 16.7 percent of revenue.
 
TI inventories declined slightly from the fourth quarter, a period in which they were significantly reduced by $100 million. Having adjusted inventories to desired levels during the fourth quarter, TI increased production in its Semiconductor factories in the first quarter to realign factory output with its shipments.
 
Earnings per share (EPS) were $0.24 in the first quarter.
 
"TI started 2005 with stronger profit performance despite a slower semiconductor market environment. Higher utilization of the company's owned factories as well as lower manufacturing and operating expenses were largely responsible for improved profitability in a quarter where revenue declined sequentially," said Rich Templeton, president and chief executive officer.
 
"The market environment is improving. We believe the inventory correction in TI's standard semiconductor products at distributors that began in the third quarter of 2004 is complete, as demonstrated by sequential growth in revenue and orders for these products. We expect that the inventory correction associated with our DLP
TM
products used in high-definition televisions and projectors will continue into the second quarter, although the rate of reductions should subside," he said.
 
"While the overall environment for cell phones will likely support a lower growth rate than last year, we continue to have high expectations for our wireless operations in 2005. In the first quarter, TI's wireless revenue grew 15 percent from a year ago and declined 14 percent sequentially following a strong fourth quarter. Recent market reports have confirmed that TI is the world's top provider of semiconductors used in the wireless market, and we expect to gain additional share this year in the fast-growing market for 3G UMTS modems based on the strength of our digital signal processors," he said.
 
"TI aggressively repurchased its common stock during the quarter, and we are now more than halfway through the $3 billion of repurchase plans announced in September and January. We remain committed to returning value to our shareholders," he said.
 
Gross Profit
 
In the first quarter, TI's gross profit of $1336 million, or 44.9 percent of revenue, was about even sequentially. Compared with a year ago, gross profit increased $14 million primarily due to higher gross profit in E&PS and a gain on the sale of assets associated with the company's commodity liquid crystal display (LCD) driver product line.
 
Operating Expenses
 
Research and development (R&D) expense of $495 million, or 16.6 percent of revenue, increased $8 million sequentially due to higher Semiconductor product development expenses and was about even with a year ago.
 
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense of $344 million, or 11.6 percent of revenue, decreased $19 million sequentially and $10 million from a year ago due to the combination of a gain recognized on the disposition of a sales facility and lower expenses.
 
Operating Profit
 
Operating profit of $497 million, or 16.7 percent of revenue, increased $13 million sequentially and $23 million from a year ago due to the combination of lower SG&A expenses and higher gross profit.
 
Other Income (Expense) Net (OI&E)
 
OI&E of $48 million decreased $38 million sequentially primarily due to the impact in the previous quarter of a partial settlement of matters related to grants from the Italian government regarding TI's former memory business operations and the resolution of an open sales-tax item associated with the company's previously divested defense electronics business. OI&E decreased $2 million from a year ago.
 
Net Income
 
Net income was $411 million, or $0.24 per share.
 
The effective tax rate for the first quarter was 24 percent, as expected, compared with the previous quarter's 14 percent tax rate that included a cumulative catch-up reduction in tax expense. The effective tax rate in the year-ago quarter was 29 percent.
 
Orders
 
TI orders of $3028 million increased $84 million sequentially primarily due to seasonally higher demand for E&PS graphing calculators as well as higher demand for Sensors & Controls products. Compared with a year ago, TI orders decreased $203 million due to lower demand for Semiconductor products.
 
Cash
 
At the end of the first quarter, total cash (cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments and long-term cash investments) was $5140 million, a decrease of $1218 million from the end of the previous quarter and a decrease of $353 million from the end of the year-ago period. During the quarter, the company used $1493 million in cash to repurchase 58 million shares of TI common stock.
 
Cash flow from operations in the first quarter of $523 million decreased $782 million sequentially primarily due to a significant reduction in accounts receivable in the
 
fourth quarter that was not repeated in the first quarter and payment of employee profit sharing in the first quarter for 2004 performance.
 
Capital Spending and Depreciation
 
Capital expenditures in the first quarter of $277 million increased by $66 million sequentially and decreased by $124 million from a year ago. TI's capital expenditures in the first quarter were primarily for equipment used for 65- and 90-nanometer wafer fabrication, and assembly and test operations.
 
Depreciation in the first quarter of $347 million decreased $43 million sequentially and $1 million from a year ago.
 
Accounts Receivable and Inventories
 
Accounts receivable at the end of the first quarter of $1696 million were the same as at the end of the previous quarter. Accounts receivable increased $18 million from the end of the year-ago quarter due to higher sales. Days sales outstanding were 51 at the end of the first quarter compared with 48 at the end of the previous quarter and 51 at the end of the year-ago quarter.
 
Inventories of $1245 million at the end of the first quarter declined $11 million from the end of the previous quarter. Compared with the end of the year-ago quarter, inventories increased $97 million due to inventories the company built in the first three
 
quarters of 2004 to increase its ability to quickly deliver products to customers. Days of inventory at the end of the first quarter were 69, up from 62 days at the end of the previous quarter and 64 days at the end of the year-ago period.
 
Outlook
 
TI intends to provide a mid-quarter update to its financial outlook on June 7, 2005, by issuing a press release and holding a conference call. Both will be available on the company's web site.
 
For the second quarter of 2005, TI expects revenue to be in the following ranges:
 
 
 
 
 
TI expects EPS to be in the range of $0.25 to $0.29.
 
This outlook comprehends the sale of the company's commodity LCD driver product line, which was completed effective March 18, 2005. Revenue from this product line was about $200 million in 2004 and was $39 million for the abbreviated period during the first quarter of 2005 in which it was owned by TI.
 
For 2005, TI continues to expect: R&D to be about $2.1 billion, capital expenditures to be about $1.3 billion and depreciation to be about $1.4 billion. The effective tax rate for the year is expected to be about 24 percent, unchanged from the prior estimate. This tax rate does not include any impact related to the expensing of stock options under the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Statement 123(R), which the company expects to implement beginning in the third quarter of 2005. In addition, this outlook does not reflect the impact of any potential repatriation of cash under the American Jobs Creation Act.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Semiconductor
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1Q Semiconductor Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sensors & Controls
 
 
 
 
Educational & Productivity Solutions (E&PS)
 
 
 
 
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "foresees," "forecasts," "estimates" or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this release that describe the company's business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the Company or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading "Cautionary Statements Regarding Future Results of Operations" in Item 1 of the Company's most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of publication, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Texas Instruments Incorporated provides innovative DSP and analog technologies to meet our customers' real world signal processing requirements. In addition to Semiconductor, the company's businesses include Sensors & Controls and Educational & Productivity Solutions. TI is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and has manufacturing, design or sales operations in more than 25 countries.
 
Texas Instruments is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TXN. More information is located on the World Wide Web at www.ti.com.
 
TI Trademarks:
 
OMAP
DLP
Fusion Digital Power
 
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 


