FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20050725164016.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
The Registrant's news release dated July 25, 2005, regarding its second quarter 2005 results of operations and financial condition attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated by reference herein.
 
ITEM 8.01. Other Events
 
The Registrant's news release dated July 25, 2005, regarding a share repurchase program and planned dividend increase, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2, is incorporated by reference herein.
 
ITEM 9.01. Exhibits
 
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "foresees," "forecasts," "estimates" or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this report that describe the Company's business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the Company or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading "Cautionary Statements Regarding Future Results of Operations" in Item 1 of the Company's most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DALLAS (July 25, 2005)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today reported revenue for the second quarter of $3239 million, up 9 percent sequentially and about even with the year-ago quarter. The sequential growth primarily was due to increased demand for the company's analog and DSP semiconductor products. Also contributing to growth was the seasonal increase in demand for calculators from TI's Educational & Productivity Solutions (E&PS) business.
 
Operating profit of $669 million, an all-time high, reflected stronger gross profit as well as tight control of operating expenses. TI's gross profit margin expanded 2.1 percentage points sequentially to 47.0 percent of revenue, and TI's operating margin increased 3.9 percentage points to 20.6 percent of revenue.
 
Earnings per share (EPS) in the second quarter were $0.38, which includes a net benefit of $0.06 from tax-related items.
 
Separately, the company announced plans to increase its dividend by 20 percent to an annual dividend payment of $0.12 per share effective with the October 2005 dividend declaration. Also, the Board of Directors has authorized a $2 billion stock repurchase, which is in addition to previously announced stock repurchase authorizations.
 
"Our strong growth underscores the importance of DSP and analog to a wide range of electronics equipment," said Rich Templeton, TI president and chief executive officer. "We believe that revenue from our broad portfolio of advanced DSP and analog products outpaced the results of our competitors.
 
"Good products, good execution and good cost control led to record operating profit," he said. "Our operations continued to produce significant cash, and we were well-positioned to repurchase the company's stock in the second quarter. We repurchased an additional 52 million shares in the quarter, or a total of 110 million shares since the beginning of the year.
 
"We're also encouraged that the inventory correction that affected our DLP product revenue in the first half of the year is now complete. DLP revenue grew 10 percent sequentially, and we expect it will contribute to growth again in the third quarter," he said. "High-performance analog turned in another strong quarter with 13 percent sequential growth. DSP revenue grew 8 percent sequentially driven by strong growth in wireless applications. Total revenue from the wireless market increased 8 percent as a result of our leading position in the fast-growing 3G market. With Semiconductor orders up 15 percent sequentially in the second quarter and the book-to-bill ratio at 1.07, we believe the company will deliver solid growth again in the third quarter."
 
Gross Profit
 
In the second quarter, TI's gross profit of $1521 million, or 47.0 percent of revenue, increased $185 million sequentially due to higher gross profit from Semiconductor and E&PS. Compared with a year ago, gross profit increased $40 million for the same reason.
 
Operating Expenses
 
Research and development (R&D) expense of $493 million, or 15.2 percent of revenue, decreased $2 million sequentially. R&D expense declined $21 million from a year ago due to a lower accrual for profit sharing.
 
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense of $359 million, or 11.1 percent of revenue, increased $15 million sequentially primarily due to a gain on the disposition of a sales facility in the first quarter as well as seasonally higher marketing expenses in E&PS. SG&A decreased $16 million from a year ago primarily due to a lower profit-sharing accrual.
 
Operating Profit
 
Operating profit of $669 million, or 20.6 percent of revenue, increased $172 million sequentially due to higher gross profit, and increased $77 million from a year ago due to higher gross profit as well as lower operating expenses.
 
Other Income (Expense) Net (OI&E)
 
OI&E of $56 million increased $8 million sequentially primarily due to adjustments to previously accrued interest expense related to favorable developments on several outstanding tax matters, partially offset by reduced interest income on lower cash balances. OI&E increased $18 million from a year ago primarily due to these adjustments.
 
Net Income
 
Net income was $628 million, or $0.38 per share.
 
The net tax benefit recognized during the second quarter includes the previously mentioned favorable developments on outstanding tax matters, partially offset by the tax expense associated with the planned repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act. The company intends to invest these repatriated earnings in accordance with the provisions of the Act. Including these items, the overall tax rate for the second quarter was about 13 percent. The ongoing effective annual tax rate, excluding these items, was about 24 percent.
 
Orders
 
TI orders of $3389 million increased $361 million sequentially and $136 million from a year ago due to higher demand for Semiconductor products.
 
Cash
 
Cash flow from operations of $827 million increased $304 million sequentially primarily due to payment of employee profit sharing in the first quarter for 2004 performance and higher net income, partially offset by a seasonal increase in accounts receivable. Cash flow from operations increased $321 million from a year ago due to higher net income and lower inventories.
 
At the end of the second quarter, total cash (cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments and long-term cash investments) was $4478 million, down $662 million from the end of the previous quarter and $1056 million from the end of the year-ago period. During the quarter, the company used $1292 million in cash to repurchase 52 million shares of TI common stock.
 
Capital Spending and Depreciation
 
Capital expenditures of $257 million decreased $20 million sequentially and $99 million from a year ago. TI's capital expenditures in the second quarter were primarily for construction of TI's new 300-millimeter manufacturing facility in Texas, as well as semiconductor assembly-and-test equipment and advanced wafer-fabrication equipment.
 
Depreciation of $345 million decreased $2 million sequentially and $18 million from a year ago.
 
Accounts Receivable and Inventories
 
Accounts receivable of $1902 million at the end of the second quarter increased $206 million sequentially due to seasonally higher E&PS receivables and higher revenue. Accounts receivable decreased $28 million from the end of the year-ago quarter. Days sales outstanding were 53 at the end of the second quarter compared with 51 at the end of the previous quarter and 54 at the end of the year-ago quarter.
 
Inventories of $1202 million at the end of the second quarter decreased $43 million from the end of the previous quarter due to strong shipments, and decreased $83 million from the end of the year-ago quarter due to lower factory loadings. Days of inventory at the end of the second quarter were 63 compared with 69 at the end of the previous quarter and 66 at the end of the year-ago quarter.
 
Outlook
 
TI intends to provide a mid-quarter update to its financial outlook on Sept. 8, 2005, by issuing a press release and holding a conference call. Both will be available on the company's web site.
 
For the third quarter of 2005, TI expects revenue to be in the following ranges:
 
 
 
 
 
TI expects EPS to be in the range of $0.31 to $0.35. This estimate includes the expensing of employee stock options, which TI will initiate in the third quarter as previously announced. This expense is expected to be about $80 million in the third quarter, or $0.03 per share.
 
For 2005, TI continues to expect: R&D to be about $2.1 billion, capital expenditures to be about $1.3 billion and depreciation to be about $1.4 billion. The ongoing effective tax rate for the remainder of the year is expected to be about 24 percent.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Semiconductor
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2Q Semiconductor Highlights
 
 
 
 
Sensors & Controls
 
 
 
 
Educational & Productivity Solutions (E&PS)
 
 
 
 
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "foresees," "forecasts," "estimates" or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this release that describe the company's business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the Company or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading "Cautionary Statements Regarding Future Results of Operations" in Item 1 of the Company's most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of publication, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Texas Instruments Incorporated provides innovative DSP and analog technologies to meet our customers' real world signal processing requirements. In addition to Semiconductor, the company's businesses include Sensors & Controls and Educational & Productivity Solutions. TI is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and has manufacturing, design or sales operations in more than 25 countries.
 
Texas Instruments is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TXN. More information is located on the World Wide Web at www.ti.com.
 
TI Trademarks:
 
OMAP-DM
DLP
 
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
DALLAS (July 25, 2005)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today announced that its Board of Directors has authorized the company to repurchase an additional $2 billion of its common stock. This is the third large repurchase program the company has announced in the past 10 months.
 
Additionally, the company plans to raise its quarterly cash dividend 20 percent. TI's new quarterly dividend rate will be $0.03 per quarter, resulting in annual dividend payments of $0.12 per share. The company's previous dividend increase was announced in September 2004. TI has paid dividends to its shareholders on an uninterrupted basis since June 1, 1962.
 
"TI's leading position in high-growth markets and the strongest balance sheet in our history are allowing us to deliver more value directly to our shareholders with an additional large stock buyback and dividend increase," said Rich Templeton, TI's president and chief executive officer.
 
TI plans to repurchase shares at times and prices considered appropriate by the company. TI has nearly completed its previously authorized buyback programs, totaling $3 billion. When combined with today's announcement, the Board has authorized the repurchase of $5 billion of stock since September 2004. The company had 1623 million shares outstanding at the end of the second quarter, June 30, 2005.
 
TI expects the first quarterly distribution of the new dividend will be payable November 21, 2005, to stockholders of record on October 31, 2005, contingent upon formal declaration by the Board of Directors at its regular meeting in October.
 
TI currently pays a quarterly cash dividend of $0.025, or $0.10 annually.
 
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "foresees," "forecasts," "estimates" or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this release that describe the company's business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the Company or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading "Cautionary Statements Regarding Future Results of Operations" in Item 1 of the Company's most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of publication, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Texas Instruments Incorporated provides innovative DSP and analog technologies to meet our customers' real world signal processing requirements. In addition to Semiconductor, the company's businesses include Sensors & Controls and Educational & Productivity Solutions. TI is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and has manufacturing, design or sales operations in more than 25 countries.
 
Texas Instruments is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TXN. More information is located on the World Wide Web at www.ti.com.
 


