FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20060124164634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 19, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Registrant's Board of Directors approved a form of agreement for awards of restricted stock units made on or after such date to the Registrant's executive officers. Each restricted stock unit represents a right to receive one share of common stock of the Registrant upon the vesting date(s) specified in the award, subject to the terms and conditions of the agreement. Among the terms and conditions, the form provides for (a) termination of the award in the event of employment termination before the vesting date, except in cases of termination due to death, permanent disability or retirement, (b) reduction of the number of shares issuable under the award in the event of retirement, (c) acceleration of vesting in the event of a change in control as defined in the agreement and (d) possible termination of the award and recapture of profits if the grantee breaches noncompete obligations.
 
The form of agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10
 
 
 
Your award of Restricted Stock Units (the "Award') is subject to the following terms and conditions, your acceptance of which is required within 120 days of the Grant Date (as defined in Section 8 below). Failure to accept this Agreement by such date will result in termination of the Award without any shares being issued.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The number of shares will be the number specified for the Vesting Date on the Employee Stock Grant Communication, times a fraction equal to your Pre-Retirement Period (as defined in Section 8(e)) divided by the
Vesting Period (as defined in Section 8(f)). If the number of shares calculated pursuant to the previous sentence includes a fraction of a share, the number will be rounded up to the next whole share. If your Award provides for more than one Vesting Date, this calculation will be done to determine the number of shares issuable on each Vesting Date.
 
 
 
 
The number of shares will be the number specified for the Vesting Date on the Employee Stock Grant Communication, times a fraction equal to your Pre-Bridge Period (as defined in Section 8(h)) divided by the Vesting Period (as defined in Section 8(f)). If the number of shares calculated pursuant to the previous sentence includes a fraction of a share, the number will be rounded up to the next whole share. If your Award provides for more than one Vesting Date, this calculation will be done to determine the number of shares to be issuable on each Vesting Date.
 
If you go on a Bridge to Retirement and subsequently terminate under the circumstances described in (i) or (ii) above, there is no further adjustment to the number of shares issuable under your Award, even if you have returned to full- or part-time employment before terminating.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By accepting this Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement, I acknowledge I have read and I agree to be bound by all of the terms and conditions set forth above, including Section 5 relating to Confidential Information and Competition.
 


