FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20060724163527.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Registrant's news release dated July 24, 2006, regarding its second quarter 2006 results of operations and financial condition attached hereto as Exhibit 99 is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 9.01. Exhibits
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this report that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the Company or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of the Companys most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
Except as noted, financial results are for continuing operations. The sale of TIs former Sensors & Controls business was completed on April 27, 2006, and that business is reported as a discontinued operation.
 
DALLAS (July 24, 2006) - Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today reported revenue of $3.70 billion for the second quarter of 2006. Revenue was 11 percent higher sequentially and 24 percent higher than the same quarter a year ago as demand for the companys semiconductors continued to strengthen. Sequential growth also benefited from seasonal demand for graphing calculators as retailers began to stock for the upcoming back-to-school season. As previously announced, the company received a $70 million royalty settlement in the quarter that was included in revenue.
 
 
  
   
Earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations were $0.47, up 42 percent sequentially and 34 percent from a year ago. EPS included an expense of $0.03 from stock-based compensation, a benefit of $0.03 from a sales tax refund and a benefit of $0.02 from the royalty settlement. The company began expensing stock options in the third quarter of 2005 and, therefore, equivalent stock-based compensation expense was not reflected in the year-ago quarter, when the company earned $0.35 per share from continuing operations.
 
This was another excellent quarter for Texas Instruments, said Rich Templeton, president and chief executive officer. All regions of the world showed strong revenue growth from a year ago. Revenue from our wireless semiconductors grew 27 percent, including more than 70 percent growth in 3G; revenue from high-performance analog semiconductors grew 32 percent; and revenue from our DLP
picture technology grew 34 percent.
 
Strategically, our focus on open wireless standards was reinforced by the actions of operators around the world, who are accelerating their infrastructure transitions to GSM because of its cost effectiveness and the wide range of choices it offers, Templeton said.
 
Going into the third quarter, our backlog of orders is up, and our outlook is for seasonal growth. As always, we will pay close attention to the worlds economies and to our inventory in the various market channels.
Gross Profit
 
TIs gross profit was $1.91 billion, or 51.6 percent of revenue. This was an increase of $235 million from the prior quarter and an increase of $481 million from the year-ago quarter. The increases over both periods reflect higher revenue in the companys two segments, Semiconductor and Educational & Productivity Solutions (E&PS).
Operating Expenses
 
 
Research and development (R&D) expense was $536 million, or 14.5 percent of revenue. R&D increased $3 million from the prior quarter and $51 million from the year-ago quarter. The increases were due to higher spending for development of new semiconductor devices, particularly associated with wireless applications.
 
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense was $418 million, or 11.3 percent of revenue. This expense decreased $3 million from the prior quarter and was up $79 million from the year-ago quarter. The increase from a year ago was primarily due to the combination of stock-based compensation expense and higher spending for consumer advertising of the companys DLP semiconductors used in high-definition televisions.
Operating Profit
 
Operating profit was $953 million, or 25.8 percent of revenue. This was an increase of $235 million from the prior quarter primarily due to higher gross profit in both of the companys segments. It was also an increase of $351 million from the year-ago quarter due to higher gross profit in the Semiconductor segment. Total stock-based compensation expense of $84 million, or 2.3 percent of revenue, was included in Corporate in the second quarter of 2006.
 
Other Income (Expense) Net (OI&E)
 
 
   
OI&E of $88 million increased $36 million from the prior quarter and $32 million from the year-ago quarter due to a sales tax refund and higher interest income.
 
Net Income
 
Income from continuing operations was $739 million, or $0.47 per share. 
 
Net income, which includes income from continuing and discontinued operations, was $2.39 billion, or $1.50 per share. This included $1.65 billion from discontinued operations, almost all of which was a gain on the sale of the companys former Sensors & Controls business.
Orders
 
TI orders were $3.91 billion. This was an increase of $302 million from the prior quarter and an increase of $767 million from the year-ago quarter. Both increases were primarily due to higher demand for the companys semiconductor products.
Cash
 
Cash flow from operations was $667 million. This was an increase of $145 million from the prior quarter and a decrease of $97 million from the year-ago quarter.
 
At the end of the second quarter, total cash (cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments) was $5.67 billion, up $2.01 billion from the end of the prior quarter and up $1.20 billion from the end of the year-ago quarter. These increases were primarily due to the $2.98 billion of cash from the sale of the companys Sensors & Controls business as well as income from continuing operations, partially offset by the cash used for stock repurchases. During the second quarter of 2006, the company repurchased 33 million shares of TI common stock for $1.04 billion and paid $47 million in dividends. Also in the quarter, $275 million of variable-rate bank notes were prepaid.
Capital Spending and Depreciation
 
Capital expenditures were $374 million. This was a decrease of $34 million from the prior quarter and an increase of $127 million from the year-ago
quarter.
 
TIs capital expenditures in the second quarter were primarily for equipment used in the assembly and test of semiconductors.
 
Depreciation was $267 million, a decrease of $3 million from the prior quarter and a decrease of $70 million from the year-ago quarter.
 
 
Accounts Receivable and Inventories
 
Accounts receivable were $1.93 billion. This was an increase of $131 million from the prior quarter due to seasonally higher receivables for calculators in the E&PS segment, and an
increase of $191 million from the year-ago quarter reflecting higher revenue. Days sales outstanding were 47 at the end of the second quarter compared with 49 at the end of the prior quarter and 53 at the end of the year-ago quarter.
 
Inventory was $1.34 billion at the end of the second quarter. This was an increase of $89 million from the prior quarter as the company built inventory to support expected product shipments in the second half of the year. Compared with the year-ago quarter, inventory increased $219 million. Days of inventory at the end of the second quarter were 67 compared with 67 at the end of the prior quarter and 65 at the end of the year-ago quarter.
Outlook
 
TI intends to provide a mid-quarter update to its financial outlook on
September 11, 2006, by issuing a press release and holding a conference call. Both will be available on the companys web site.
 
For the third quarter of 2006, TI expects revenue from continuing operations to be in the following ranges:
TI expects earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $0.42 to $0.48.
 
The effective tax rate for continuing operations in 2006 is expected to be about 30 percent, unchanged from the prior estimate.  This tax rate is based on current tax law and does not assume reinstatement of the federal research tax credit, which expired at the end of 2005.
Additionally in 2006 for continuing operations, TI still expects expense for R&D to be about $2.2 billion and capital expenditures to be about $1.3 billion. Depreciation is expected to be about $1.05 billion, up slightly from the prior estimate.
 
Certain amounts in the prior periods financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
 
* Semiconductor profit from operations includes a benefit of $57 for a state sales tax refund and $60 from the royalty settlement in the second quarter of 2006.
** Corporate includes stock-based compensation expense of $84, $91 and $5 respectively.
 
The royalty settlement and sales tax refund benefit included in TI's second quarter 2006 results are detailed as follows. All items are in the Semiconductor segment results except the $20 million in Other income (expense) net, which is in Corporate.
 
Semiconductor
 
Semiconductor Highlights
 
 
Educational & Productivity Solutions
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this release that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the Company or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of the Companys most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of publication, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Texas Instruments Incorporated provides innovative DSP and analog technologies to meet our customers real world signal processing requirements. In addition to Semiconductor, the company includes the Educational & Productivity Solutions business. TI is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and has manufacturing, design or sales operations in more than 25 countries.
Texas Instruments is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TXN. More information is located on the World Wide Web at
www.ti.com
.
TI Trademark:
DLP
 
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


