FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20060608163349.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
1
ITEM 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
The Registrant's news release dated June 8, 2006, regarding the Registrant's outlook for the second quarter of 2006 attached hereto as Exhibit 99 is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM
9.01. Exhibits
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this report that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the Company or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of the Companys most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
2

Exhibit 99
  
Revenue Expected between $3.63 Billion and $3.78 Billion
  
EPS Expected between $0.46 and $0.48
        
DALLAS (June 8, 2006) - In a scheduled update to its business outlook for the second quarter of 2006, Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today revised its expected ranges for revenue and earnings per share (EPS).
The companys expectations for revenue from continuing operations are:
TI expects EPS from continuing operations between $0.46 and $0.48, compared with the previous range of $0.38 to $0.43. Both the current and previous ranges for EPS include about $0.04 for stock-based compensation expense. The revenue estimate includes a $70 million cash payment from Conexant Systems, Inc., for a previously announced settlement of patent-related litigation. In addition, the company received a sales tax benefit in the quarter. The combination of these two items is expected to contribute about $0.05 - $0.06 to EPS.
The company will hold a conference call at 4 p.m. CDT today to discuss this update. This conference call will be available live at
www.ti.com
. TIs original second-quarter outlook was published in the companys first-quarter 2006 earnings release on April 18, available at
www.ti.com
. TIs second quarter ends on June 30.
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this release that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the Company or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of the Companys most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of publication, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Texas Instruments Incorporated provides innovative DSP and analog technologies to meet our customers real world signal processing requirements. In addition to Semiconductor, the company includes the Educational & Productivity Solutions business. TI is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and has manufacturing, design or sales operations in more than 25 countries.
Texas Instruments is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TXN. More information is located on the World Wide Web at
www.ti.com
.


