FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20060123163836.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
The Registrant's news release dated January 23, 2006, regarding its fourth quarter and 2005 results of operations and financial condition attached hereto as Exhibit 99 is incorporated by reference herein.
 
ITEM 9.01. Exhibits
 
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "foresees," "forecasts," "estimates" or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this report that describe the Company's business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the Company or its management:
 
 -  Market demand for semiconductors, particularly for analog chips and digital signal processors in key markets such as communications, entertainment electronics and computing;
 
 -  TI's ability to maintain or improve profit margins, including its ability to utilize its manufacturing facilities at sufficient levels to cover its fixed operating costs, in an intensely competitive and cyclical industry;
 
 -  TI's ability to develop, manufacture and market innovative products in a rapidly changing technological environment;
 
 -  TI's ability to compete in products and prices in an intensely competitive industry;
 
 -  TI's ability to maintain and enforce a strong intellectual property portfolio and obtain needed licenses from third parties;
 
 -  Consolidation of TI's patent licensees and market conditions reducing royalty payments to TI;
 
 -  Economic, social and political conditions in the countries in which TI, its customers or its suppliers operate, including security risks, health
 
conditions, possible disruptions in transportation networks and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;
 
 -  Natural events such as severe weather and earthquakes in the locations in which TI, its customers or suppliers operate;
 
 -  Availability and cost of raw materials, utilities and critical manufacturing equipment;
 
 -  Changes in the tax rate applicable to TI as the result of changes in tax law, the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed, the outcome of tax audits and the ability to realize deferred tax assets;
 
 -  Losses or curtailments of purchases from key customers and the timing and amount of distributor and other customer inventory adjustments;
 
 -  Customer demand that differs from company forecasts;
 
 -  The financial impact of inadequate or excess TI inventories to meet demand that differs from projections;
 
 -  Product liability or warranty claims, or recalls by TI customers for a product containing a TI part;
 
 -  TI's ability to recruit and retain skilled personnel; and
 
 -  Timely implementation of new manufacturing technologies, installation of manufacturing equipment and the ability to obtain needed third-party foundry and assembly/test subcontract services.
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading "Cautionary Statements Regarding Future Results of Operations" in Item 1 of the Company's most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DALLAS (Jan. 23, 2006)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today reported revenue for the fourth quarter of 2005 of $3.59 billion, up 14 percent from the year-ago quarter as growth in the Semiconductor segment accelerated. Fourth-quarter revenue was even with the third quarter of 2005 as growth in semiconductors was offset by the expected seasonal decline of graphing calculator sales in the Educational & Productivity Solutions segment. For the year, TI revenue reached a record $13.39 billion, an increase of 6 percent. TI also set a new high for operating margin of 20.8 percent.
 
The company's Semiconductor segment reported growth of 3 percent sequentially for revenue of $3.23 billion, a new quarterly record, and expanded its operating margin to a second consecutive quarterly high. Semiconductor revenue grew 15 percent from the year-ago quarter due to demand for TI's digital signal processors (DSPs) and analog chips used in high-growth communications and entertainment electronics.
 
Earnings per share were $0.40 in the fourth quarter and were $1.39 for the year. Earnings per share include stock-based compensation expense of $0.03 in the fourth quarter and $0.07 for the year. The company began expensing stock options in the third quarter of 2005 and, therefore, equivalent stock-based compensation expense was not reflected in prior periods.
 
Separately, the company announced that its Board of Directors has authorized a $5 billion stock repurchase. This authorization is in addition to previously announced stock repurchase authorizations.
 
"2005 was TI's 75
th
year in operation, and as we crossed that milestone we delivered record annual results for revenue, operating profit, operating margin and operating cash flow," said Rich Templeton, TI president and chief executive officer. "We also gained market share in our core semiconductor technologies of DSP and analog for the fourth consecutive year.
 
"Highlights for 2005 include a reinforced leadership position in semiconductors for wireless cell phones. We solidly achieved our goal to exceed $1 billion of semiconductor revenue in the newest cell-phone generation, known as 3G, by doubling our shipments of OMAP
TM
application processors and almost tripling our shipments of baseband modems. Other highlights include initial shipments of a new family of DSPs for digital video known as DaVinci
TM
, our agreement to acquire radio frequency expert Chipcon for high-performance analog, customer sampling of our multi-mode UMTS chipset for wireless cell phones, and strong consumer acceptance of our DLP
technology in 1080p high-definition televisions.
 
"TI enters 2006 in excellent health. Customer and channel inventories appear lean, and demand is solid. Overall, the combination of our customers, products and manufacturing abilities will enable us to keep evolving TI into a company that produces superior revenue and earnings growth on a sustained basis."
 
Gross Profit
 
In the fourth quarter, TI's gross profit was $1.73 billion, or 48.3 percent of revenue. Gross profit declined $37 million from the third quarter due to a seasonal decline in the Educational & Productivity Solutions segment, which more than offset gross profit increases in the Semiconductor and Sensors & Controls segments. Gross profit increased $400 million from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to higher gross margin in Semiconductor.
 
For the year, gross profit of $6.36 billion, or 47.5 percent of revenue, increased 13 percent, primarily due to higher gross margin in the company's Semiconductor segment.
 
Stock-based compensation expense included in cost of revenue was $17 million in the fourth quarter and $33 million for the year 2005.
 
Operating Expenses
 
In the fourth quarter, research and development (R&D) expense of $500 million, or 13.9 percent of revenue, decreased $27 million sequentially, primarily due to seasonally lower pay and benefits as employees observed holidays and took vacation time. R&D increased $13 million from the year-ago quarter. For the year, R&D expense of $2.02 billion, or 15.0 percent of revenue, increased $37 million. Stock-based compensation expense included in R&D was $27 million in the fourth quarter and $53 million in 2005.
 
In the fourth quarter, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense of $424 million, or 11.8 percent of revenue, decreased $5 million sequentially as seasonally lower pay and benefits offset higher semiconductor marketing expenses. SG&A increased $61 million from a year ago. For the year, SG&A expense of $1.56 billion, or 11.6 percent of
 
revenue, increased 8 percent. Stock-based compensation expense included in SG&A was $42 million in the fourth quarter and $92 million in 2005.
 
Operating Profit
 
In the fourth quarter, operating profit of $810 million, or 22.6 percent of revenue, was about even sequentially as the seasonal decline in the Educational & Productivity Solutions segment offset strong contribution from the Semiconductor segment. Operating profit increased $326 million from the year-ago quarter due to higher operating margin in Semiconductor. Semiconductor operating margin was 28.1 percent of revenue, an increase of 11.0 percentage points from the year-ago quarter.
 
For the year, operating profit of $2.79 billion, or 20.8 percent of revenue, increased 26 percent due to higher operating margin in Semiconductor. Semiconductor operating margin of 23.9 percent of revenue increased 5.2 percentage points from the prior year.
 
Total stock-based compensation expense of $86 million in the fourth quarter and $178 million in 2005 was included in corporate activities.
 
Other Income (Expense) Net (OI&E)
 
OI&E of $51 million increased $2 million sequentially, and decreased $35 million from a year ago primarily due to favorable resolution of an open sales-tax item in the year-ago quarter.
 
For the year, OI&E of $206 million decreased by $29 million primarily due to lower income from settlements with the Italian government related to the company's former memory-chip operations.
 
Net Income
 
In the fourth quarter, net income was $655 million or $0.40 per share, including $0.03 of stock-based compensation expense. For the year, net income was $2.32 billion, or $1.39 per share, including $0.07 of stock-based compensation expense. The overall tax rate, which includes discrete tax items, was 24 percent for the fourth quarter and 22 percent for the year.
 
Orders
 
TI orders of $3.77 billion increased $27 million sequentially and $823 million from the year-ago quarter due to higher demand for Semiconductor products. For the year, TI orders of $13.92 billion increased 12 percent as demand grew for the company's Semiconductor products.
 
Cash
 
Cash flow from operations of $908 million decreased $606 million sequentially and $389 million from the year-ago quarter. For the year, cash flow from operations increased 20 percent to $3.77 billion.
 
At the end of the fourth quarter, total cash (cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments) was $5.34 billion, up $84 million from the end of the previous quarter and down $1.02 billion from the end of the year-ago period. During the quarter, the company repurchased $870 million of TI common stock and paid $48 million in dividends. During 2005, the company repurchased $4.15 billion of TI common stock, reducing average diluted shares outstanding by almost 100 million shares, and paid $173 million
 
in dividends. In 2004, the company repurchased $753 million of TI common stock, and paid $154 million in dividends.
 
In 2005, to avail the company of tax savings provided for under the American Jobs Creation Act, TI repatriated $1.3 billion of previously undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries. During the fourth quarter, TI's Japan subsidiary borrowed $275 million in order to facilitate this process.
 
Capital Spending and Depreciation
 
Capital expenditures of $346 million decreased $104 million sequentially and increased $135 million from the year-ago quarter. For the year, capital expenditures of $1.33 billion increased by $32 million. TI's capital expenditures in the fourth quarter and the year were primarily for assembly and test equipment, advanced wafer fabrication equipment and construction of the company's new 300-millimeter manufacturing facility in Richardson, Texas.
 
Depreciation of $344 million increased $5 million sequentially and decreased $46 million from a year ago. For the year, depreciation was $1.38 billion, a decrease of $104 million.
 
Beginning in the first quarter of 2006, TI will change its method of depreciation from an accelerated to a straight-line method on its existing and future property, plant and equipment assets. This change is the result of a study that was conducted regarding the usage pattern of TI's long-lived depreciable assets. The study indicated a trend toward more consistent utilization of assets as TI has focused its product portfolio on differentiated products and supplemented its internal semiconductor manufacturing with supply from foundries.
 
Accounts Receivable and Inventories
 
Accounts receivable of $1.81 billion at the end of the fourth quarter decreased $103 million sequentially due to seasonally lower receivables in the company's Educational & Productivity Solutions segment. Accounts receivable increased $116 million from the year-ago quarter due to higher revenue. Days sales outstanding were 45 at the end of the fourth quarter compared with 48 at the end of the previous quarter and 48 at the end of the year-ago quarter.
 
Inventory of $1.27 billion at the end of the fourth quarter increased $115 million sequentially as the company built inventory from the lower-than-desired levels of the third quarter. For the year, inventory increased by $17 million compared with the end of 2004. The increases for both the quarter and the year were primarily in work-in-process, with fourth-quarter finished goods still remaining below desired levels. Days of inventory at the end of the fourth quarter were 62 compared with 57 at the end of the previous quarter and 62 at the end of the year-ago quarter.
 
Outlook
 
TI intends to provide a mid-quarter update to its financial outlook on March 6, 2006, by issuing a press release and holding a conference call. Both will be available on the company's web site.
 
The previously announced divestiture of the Sensors & Controls operations is expected to close in the first half of 2006. The financial results of this business will be accounted for as a discontinued operation beginning with the first quarter of 2006.
 
For the first quarter of 2006, TI expects revenue from continuing operations to be in the following ranges:
 
 
 
 
TI expects earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $0.29 to $0.33. This estimate includes about $0.04, or about $90 million, for stock-based compensation expense. Earnings per share in the first quarter will be negatively impacted by about $0.03 due to a higher expected tax rate when compared with the fourth quarter of 2005. Earnings per share from discontinued operations are expected to be about $0.03.
 
In 2006 for continuing operations, the estimated annual effective tax rate is about 30 percent, which is based on current tax law and does not assume reinstatement of the federal research tax credit, which expired at the end of 2005.
 
Also in 2006 for continuing operations, TI expects R&D expense of about $2.2 billion and capital expenditures of about $1.3 billion. Depreciation is expected to be about $1.03 billion and reflects the company's change to a straight-line calculation. Depreciation under the company's prior accelerated method would have been about $1.21 billion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* Profit from operations includes, in millions of dollars, stock-based compensation expense of $86, $82 and $4 for the fourth quarter and third quarter of 2005 and the fourth quarter of 2004, and $178 and $18 for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004.
 
Semiconductor
 
 
 
 
 
demand for high-performance analog products, which more than offset the loss of revenue from the company's commodity liquid crystal display (LCD) driver product line that was divested in the first quarter of 2005. In 2005, about 40 percent of total Semiconductor revenue came from analog.
 
 
 
 
Latest Semiconductor Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sensors & Controls
 
 
 
 
Educational & Productivity Solutions
 
 
 
 
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "foresees," "forecasts," "estimates" or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this release that describe the Company's business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the Company or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading "Cautionary Statements Regarding Future Results of Operations" in Item 1 of the Company's most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of publication, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Texas Instruments Incorporated provides innovative DSP and analog technologies to meet our customers' real world signal processing requirements. In addition to Semiconductor, the company's businesses include Sensors & Controls and Educational & Productivity Solutions. TI is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and has manufacturing, design or sales operations in more than 25 countries.
 
Texas Instruments is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TXN. More information is located on the World Wide Web at .
www.ti.com
 
TI Trademarks:
OMAP
DaVinci
DLP
Hollywood
DLP Cinema
DRP
 
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 


