FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20060418163351.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Registrant's news release dated April 18, 2006, regarding its first quarter 2006 results of operations and financial condition attached hereto as Exhibit 99 is incorporated by reference herein.
 
ITEM 9.01. Exhibits
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this report that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the Company or its management:
Market demand for semiconductors, particularly for analog chips and digital signal processors in key markets such as communications, entertainment electronics and computing;
TIs ability to maintain or improve profit margins, including its ability to utilize its manufacturing facilities at sufficient levels to cover its fixed operating costs, in an intensely competitive and cyclical industry;
TIs ability to develop, manufacture and market innovative products in a rapidly changing technological environment;
TIs ability to compete in products and prices in an intensely competitive industry;
TIs ability to maintain and enforce a strong intellectual property portfolio and obtain needed licenses from third parties;
Consolidation of TIs patent licensees and market conditions reducing royalty payments to TI;
Economic, social and political conditions in the countries in which TI, its customers or its suppliers operate, including security risks, health conditions, possible disruptions in transportation networks and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;
Natural events such as severe weather and earthquakes in the locations in which TI, its customers or suppliers operate;
Availability and cost
 
of raw materials, utilities and critical manufacturing equipment;
Changes in the tax rate applicable to TI as the result of changes in tax law, the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed, the outcome of tax audits and the ability to realize deferred tax assets;
Losses or curtailments of purchases from key customers and the timing and amount of distributor and other customer inventory adjustments;
Customer demand that differs from company forecasts;
The financial impact of inadequate or excess TI inventories to meet demand that differs from projections;
 
Product liability or warranty claims, or recalls by TI customers for a product containing a TI part;
TIs ability to recruit and retain skilled personnel; and
Timely implementation of new manufacturing technologies, installation of manufacturing equipment and the ability to obtain needed third-party foundry and assembly/test subcontract services.
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of the Companys most recent . The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Form 10-K
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
  
Revenue Grows 23% from Year Ago
  
Gross Profit Margin Increases to 50.1 Percent of Revenue
  
Company Earns $0.33 Per Share from Continuing Operations, Up 57% from Year Ago
Except as noted, financial results are for continuing operations. TIs Sensors & Controls business is reported as a discontinued operation. The previously announced divestiture of this business is expected to close in the second quarter of 2006.
 
DALLAS (April 18, 2006) - Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today reported first-quarter 2006 revenue of $3.33 billion, up 23 percent from the same quarter in 2005 as growth in the companys Semiconductor segment accelerated for the third consecutive quarter. Revenue in the first quarter, usually the companys seasonally weakest quarter, was about even with the fourth quarter of 2005.
Earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.33, up 57 percent from a year ago, and included stock-based compensation expense of $0.04. The company began expensing stock options in the third quarter of 2005 and, therefore, equivalent stock-based compensation expense was not reflected in the year-ago period when the company earned $0.21 per share from continuing operations.
This is a good start to the year. Demand was strong, and we expect it to continue, said Rich Templeton, TI president and chief executive officer. Especially encouraging was our growth in digital signal processors and analog semiconductors, increasing 32 percent and 24 percent respectively from a year ago. These are the core semiconductors of todays electronics, including 3G cell phones where our revenue doubled from a year ago; low-end cell phones that are beginning to gain traction in large, emerging markets; and wireless basestations where our revenue grew by more than half. We also built momentum in consumer awareness for high-definition televisions that use TIs DLP
picture technology.
 
Gross Profit
TIs gross profit was $1.67 billion, or 50.1 percent of revenue, an increase of $15 million from the fourth quarter. Gross profit increased $428 million from the year-ago quarter due to higher revenue. Stock-based compensation expense of $18 million was included in cost of revenue in the first quarter of 2006.
Operating Expenses
 
Research and development (R&D) expense of $533 million, or 16.0 percent of revenue, increased $40 million sequentially due to a combination of increased semiconductor product development, especially for wireless and high-performance analog products, and seasonally higher pay and benefits. R&D expense increased $46 million from the year-ago quarter primarily due to stock-based compensation expense of $28 million, which was included in the first quarter of 2006, as well as higher semiconductor product development. R&D in the first quarter included expenses associated with TIs acquisition of Chipcon Group ASA, a leader in the design of short-range, low-power wireless RF (radio frequency) transceiver semiconductors. The acquisition will help expand TIs high-performance analog product portfolio.
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense of $421 million, or 12.6 percent of revenue, increased $17 million sequentially primarily due to seasonally higher pay and benefits. SG&A increased $100 million from a year ago primarily due to the combination of stock-based compensation expense of $45 million included in the first quarter of 2006 and higher Semiconductor marketing expense, which included consumer advertising for DLP products.
Operating Profit
Operating profit of $718 million, or 21.5 percent of revenue, declined $42 million sequentially primarily due to higher operating expenses in the Semiconductor segment. Operating profit increased $282 million from the year-ago quarter due to higher gross profit in the Semiconductor segment. Total stock-based compensation expense of $91 million, or 2.7 percent of revenue, was included in corporate activities in the first quarter.
Net Income
 
Income from continuing operations was $542 million or $0.33 per share, which includes $0.04 of stock-based compensation expense. Income from discontinued operations was $43 million. Net income was $585 million or $0.36 per share.
Orders
TI orders of $3.60 billion increased $116 million sequentially due to seasonally higher orders in the Educational & Productivity Solutions business in preparation for the back-to-school retail season. TI orders increased $859 million from the year-ago quarter due to higher demand for Semiconductor products.
Cash
Cash flow from operations of $522 million decreased $358 million sequentially and increased $24 million from the year-ago quarter.
At the end of the first quarter, total cash (cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments) was $3.66 billion, down $1.67 billion from the end of the previous quarter and $1.47 billion from the end of the year-ago period. During the quarter, the company repurchased 47 million shares of TI common stock for $1.44 billion, paid $48 million in dividends and retired $311 million of long-term debt. The company also acquired Chipcon in the first quarter for $177 million in cash, net of cash acquired.
 
Capital Spending and Depreciation
Capital expenditures of $408 million increased $74 million sequentially and increased $141 million from the year-ago
quarter.
 
TIs capital expenditures in the first quarter were primarily for assembly, test and advanced 65- and 45-nanometer wafer fabrication equipment used to manufacture semiconductors.
Depreciation of $270 million decreased $66 million sequentially and $71 million from a year ago. The companys change from an accelerated to a straight-line method of depreciation beginning in the first quarter of 2006 lowered first-quarter depreciation by $29 million.
 
Accounts Receivable and Inventories
Accounts receivable of $1.80 billion increased $150 million sequentially due to higher Semiconductor shipments in the last month of the quarter versus the comparable period in the prior quarter. Accounts receivable increased $274 million from the year-ago quarter due to higher revenue. Days sales outstanding were 49 at the end of the first quarter compared with 45 at the end of the previous quarter and 51 at the end of the year-ago quarter.
Inventory of $1.25 billion at the end of the first quarter increased $61 million sequentially as the company built inventory from the lower-than-desired levels of the fourth quarter in order to better support customer demand. Inventory increased $90 million compared with the year-ago level. Days of inventory at the end of the first quarter were 67 compared with 64 at the end of the previous quarter and 71 at the end of the year-ago quarter.
Outlook
TI intends to provide a mid-quarter update to its financial outlook on
June 8, 2006, by issuing a press release and holding a conference call. Both will be available on the companys web site.
For the second quarter of 2006, TI expects revenue from continuing operations to be in the following ranges:
 
TI expects earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $0.38 to $0.43. This estimate includes about $0.04, or about $90 million, for stock-based compensation expense.
In 2006 for continuing operations, the estimated annual effective tax rate remains about 30 percent.  This rate is based on current tax law and does not assume reinstatement of the federal research tax credit, which expired at the end of 2005.
Also in 2006 for continuing operations, TI still expects R&D expense of about $2.2 billion and capital expenditures of about $1.3 billion. Depreciation is still expected to be about $1.03 billion.
 
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this release that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the Company or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of the Companys most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of publication, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Texas Instruments Incorporated provides innovative DSP and analog technologies to meet our customers real world signal processing requirements. In addition to Semiconductor, the companys businesses include Sensors & Controls and Educational & Productivity Solutions. TI is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and has manufacturing, design or sales operations in more than 25 countries.
Texas Instruments is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TXN. More information is located on the World Wide Web at
www.ti.com
.
 
TI Trademarks:
DLP
OMAP
PIQUA
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


