FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20060921194312.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01. Other Events
The Registrant's news release dated September 21, 2006, regarding a share repurchase program and planned dividend increase, attached hereto as Exhibit 99 is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM
9.01. Exhibits
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this report that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the Company or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of the Companys most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
DALLAS (September 21, 2006) - Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today announced that its Board of Directors has authorized the company to repurchase an additional $5 billion of its common stock.
TI plans to repurchase shares at times and prices considered appropriate by the company. When combined with other previously announced buyback plans, the total outstanding share repurchase authorization is now $6.8 billion. Including todays announcement, the Board has authorized the repurchase of $15 billion of stock since September 2004. Over this period, the company has reduced the number of its shares outstanding by over 200 million shares, or more than 10 percent.
Additionally, the company plans to raise its quarterly cash dividend 33 percent. TIs new quarterly dividend rate will be $0.04 per quarter, resulting in annual dividend payments of $0.16 per share. The companys previous dividend increase was announced in July 2005, when the dividend was raised 20 percent. TI has paid dividends to its shareholders on an uninterrupted basis since June 1, 1962.
 
TI expects the first quarterly distribution of the new dividend will be payable November 20, 2006, to stockholders of record on October 31, 2006, contingent upon formal declaration by the Board of Directors at its regular meeting in October.
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this release that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the Company or its management:
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of the Companys most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of publication, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Texas Instruments Incorporated provides innovative DSP and analog technologies to meet our customers real world signal processing requirements. In addition to Semiconductor, the company includes the Educational & Productivity Solutions business. TI is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and has manufacturing, design or sales operations in more than 25 countries.
Texas Instruments is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TXN. More information is located on the World Wide Web at
www.ti.com
.
 
 
 


