FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20070423163318.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Registrant's news release dated April 23, 2007, regarding its first quarter 2007 results of operations and financial condition attached hereto as Exhibit 99 is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 9.01. Exhibits
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this report that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the Company or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of the Companys most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 


