FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20070723164430.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Registrant's news release dated July 23, 2007, regarding its second quarter 2007 results of operations and financial condition attached hereto as Exhibit 99 is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 9.01. Exhibits
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this report that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the Company or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of the Companys most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
Except as noted, financial results are for continuing operations. The sale of TIs former Sensors & Controls business was completed on April 27, 2006, and that business is reported as a discontinued operation.
 
DALLAS (July 23, 2007) - Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today reported revenue of $3.42 billion for the second quarter of 2007. Revenue increased 7 percent compared with the prior quarter as demand for the companys semiconductor products began to rebound following an inventory correction in the semiconductor market. Growth also benefited from a seasonal increase in demand for the companys graphing calculator products. Revenue decreased 7 percent compared with the year-ago quarter due to lower demand across a broad base of products.
 
Earnings per share (EPS) were $0.42. This was a $0.07, or 20 percent, increase from the prior quarter and a $0.05 decrease from the year-ago quarter. In the year-ago quarter, financial results included EPS benefits of $0.03 from a sales tax refund and $0.02 associated with a favorable royalty settlement. The royalty settlement also contributed $70 million to revenue in the year-ago quarter.
 
Our attention to customers and growing focus on analog continue to help us deliver stronger financial results, said Rich Templeton, president and chief executive officer.  Moreover, we see even greater opportunities ahead as the market regains momentum.  With TIs broad product portfolio, spanning both analog and digital signal processing technologies, we are in a unique position to support customers working on hundreds of electronics applications across the globe.  We also see potential to expand our margins, and we recently raised our profitability goals to 55 percent gross margin and 30 percent operating margin. We expect to meet these goals within the next few years. 
 
Gross Profit
 
Gross profit was $1.78 billion, a record 52.1 percent of revenue. This was up $147 million from the prior quarter due to higher revenue. It was down $123 million from the year-ago quarter primarily due to the combination of the royalty settlement and sales tax refund in the year-ago quarter, as well as lower revenue.
 
Operating Expenses
 
 
Research and development (R&D) expense was $551 million. This was about even with the prior quarter.
R&D expense increased $15 million from the year-ago quarter due to the favorable impact of the sales tax refund a year ago.
 
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense was $424 million. This was an increase of $19 million from the prior quarter primarily due to higher compensation-related expenses, as well as seasonally higher marketing expenses for graphing calculators. SG&A expense was about even with the year-ago quarter
.
 
Operating Profit
 
Operating profit was $809 million, or 23.6 percent of revenue. This was an increase of $129 million from the prior quarter due to higher gross profit. It was a decrease of $144 million from the year-ago quarter primarily due to the combination of the royalty settlement and sales tax refund in the year-ago quarter.
 
Other Income (Expense) Net (OI&E)
 
OI&E was $56 million. This was an increase of $16 million from the prior quarter primarily due to the impairment of an investment in the prior quarter. OI&E declined $32 million from a year ago primarily due to a benefit associated with the sales tax refund in the year-ago quarter, as well as lower interest income.
 
Income
 
Income from continuing operations was $614 million, or $0.42 per share.
 
Orders
 
TI orders were $3.45 billion. This was an increase of $247 million, or 8 percent, from the prior quarter due to higher demand for semiconductor products and seasonally stronger demand for calculators. Orders declined $455 million from the year-ago quarter due to lower demand for semiconductor products that more than offset a $50 million increase in demand for calculators.
 
Cash
 
Cash flow from operations was $898 million. This was an increase of $344 million from the prior quarter primarily due to a reduced need for cash to meet working capital requirements, such as the payment of annual profit sharing and bonus that was made in the prior quarter. Higher net income also contributed to the increase in cash flow from operations. Total cash (cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments) was $3.58 billion at the end of the second quarter. This was an increase of $245 million from the end of the prior quarter and a decrease of $2.09 billion from the year-ago quarter, which included $2.98 billion from the sale of the companys former Sensors & Controls business in that quarter. In the second quarter of 2007, the company used $742 million to repurchase 21 million shares of common stock, paid $115 million in dividends to shareholders and retired $43 million of debt on its maturity date. Since the end of the year-ago quarter, the company has used $4.42 billion to repurchase 143 million shares of common stock and paid $278 million in dividends.
 
Capital Spending and Depreciation
 
 
 
Capital expenditures were $174 million. This was a decrease of $5 million from the prior quarter and a decrease of $200 million from the year-ago
quarter due to lower expenditures for semiconductor manufacturing equipment.
 
TIs capital expenditures in the quarter were primarily for equipment used in the manufacture of semiconductors, especially assembly and test equipment.
 
Depreciation was $256 million. This was an increase of $4 million from the prior quarter and a decrease of $11 million from the year-ago quarter.
 
 
Accounts Receivable and Inventories
 
Accounts receivable were $1.90 billion at the end of the second quarter. This was an increase of $141 million from the prior quarter due to higher revenue and a decrease of
$32 million from the year-ago quarter due to lower revenue.
Days sales outstanding were 50 at the end of the second quarter compared with 50 at the end of the prior quarter and 47 at the end of the year-ago quarter.
 
Inventory was $1.42 billion at the end of the second quarter. This was an increase of
$15 million from the prior quarter as the company built inventory of graphing calculators in preparation for the back-to-school sales season. Compared with a year ago, inventory increased $89 million primarily due to replenishment of high-performance analog product inventory from less-than-desirable levels a year ago. Days of inventory at the end of the second quarter were 78 compared with 82 at the end of the prior quarter and 67 a year ago.
 
Outlook
 
TI intends to provide a mid-quarter update to its financial outlook on
September 11, 2007, by issuing a press release and holding a conference call. Both will be available on the companys web site.
 
For the third quarter of 2007, TI expects revenue to be in the following ranges:
 
   
TI expects earnings per share to be in the range of $0.46 to $0.52.
 
This estimate assumes that the sale of the companys broadband DSL customer-premises equipment semiconductor product line will close at the end of July. The EPS estimate does not include the expected gain on the sale.
 
In 2007, TI still expects
: an annual effective tax rate of about 28 percent, R&D expense of about $2.2 billion, capital expenditures of about $0.9 billion and depreciation of about $1
.0 billion.
 
 
 
 
Certain amounts in the prior periods financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
Semiconductor
 
 
 
 
Semiconductor Highlights
 
 
 
 
Education Technology
 
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this release that describe our business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of our most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of publication, and we undertake no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments Incorporated provides innovative DSP and analog technologies to meet our customers real world signal processing requirements. In addition to Semiconductor, the company includes the Education Technology business. TI is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and has manufacturing, design or sales operations in more than 25 countries.
 
Texas Instruments is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TXN. More information is located on the World Wide Web at
www.ti.com
.
TI Trademarks:
DLP
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


