FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20070119181646.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors, Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
The Registrant's news release dated January 19, 2007, regarding the planned retirement of Mr. Gilles Delfassy, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 9.01. Exhibits
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this report that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the Company or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of the Companys most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
DALLAS (January 19, 2007) - Texas Instruments (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today announced that Gilles Delfassy, senior vice president and head of TIs wireless terminals unit, plans to retire after 28 years with the company. Effective immediately, TI has promoted Greg Delagi to senior vice president and leader of the operation, which develops semiconductors for cell phones
.
Delfassy, 51, has been at the helm of the companys successful wireless terminals unit since its inception in 1995, growing it into a multibillion dollar operation. Under his guidance, TI became the worlds leading supplier of semiconductors for wireless handsets. Delfassy has been a global champion of mobile communications. He and his team introduced a new single-chip cell phone technology called LoCosto, which is bringing affordable cell phones for the first time to people in emerging economies such as China, India and Africa. Among the other accomplishments under his leadership was the development of TIs OMAP
TM
platform, which enables multimedia on cell phones thereby broadening wireless capability beyond voice.
Gilles built an outstanding operation, one that not only transformed TI, but changed the way the world communicates. He leaves a legacy of innovation and growth, said Rich Templeton, TIs president and CEO.
Delagi, 43, is a 22-year TI veteran who for the past 10 years has led development and commercialization of digital signal processors (DSPs), one of the companys core semiconductor technologies and a critical component in the companys wireless product line. He presided over the successful launch of the industrys first 1-gigahertz DSP and the new DaVinci
TM
family of hardware and software for video applications. More recently, he added responsibility for several of the companys systems businesses, creating system-on-chip solutions that encompassed both analog and digital components. Since the late 1990s, he has led TIs effort in semiconductors for wireless basestations, working with customers and operators as his team built the industrys top position in this market.
Greg is a proven leader, able to define and execute successful strategies for both standard and custom markets. He cares intensely about our customers and shares a passion for how mobile communications can impact lifestyles and commerce, Templeton said.
Delfassy and Delagi will work together over the next six months to ensure an orderly transition for customers, suppliers and employees.
 
About Texas Instruments:
Texas Instruments Incorporated provides innovative DSP and analog technologies to meet our customers real world signal processing requirements. In addition to Semiconductor, the company includes the Education Technology business. TI is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and has manufacturing, design or sales operations in more than 25 countries.
Texas Instruments is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TXN. More information is located on the World Wide Web at
www.ti.com
.
Trademarks
OMAP is a trademark of Texas Instruments.
All registered trademarks and other trademarks belong to their respective owners.


