FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20071022163916.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Registrant's news release dated October 22, 2007, regarding its third quarter 2007 results of operations and financial condition attached hereto as Exhibit 99 is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this report that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the Company or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of the Companys most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form  8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
Except as noted, financial results are for continuing operations.  The sale of TIs former Sensors & Controls business was completed on April 27, 2006, and that business is reported as a discontinued operation.
 
   
DALLAS (Oct. 22, 2007)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today reported third-quarter 2007 revenue of $3.66 billion.  Revenue increased 7 percent compared with the prior quarter primarily due to increased demand for analog semiconductor products.  Back-to-school demand for graphing calculators also contributed to sequential growth.  TI revenue decreased 3 percent from a year ago when customers were building inventory.
 
Earnings per share (EPS) were $0.52.  This was an increase of $0.10, or 24 percent, from the prior quarter and $0.07, or 16 percent, from the year-ago quarter.  The third quarters financial results included a gain of $0.02 from the sale of the companys semiconductor product line for broadband DSL customer-premises equipment.  The gain on sale was included in the companys most recent business outlook issued September 11, 2007.
 
Strong growth in analog was at the core of our performance in the third quarter.  Our investments in analog technology have led to broader and deeper engagements with customers.  As a result, this part of our business, which delivers about 40 percent of our revenue, grew 10 percent sequentially, said Rich Templeton, TI's president and chief executive officer.  Our growth allows us to continue to increase our return to shareholders.  In the third quarter, we repurchased $1.4 billion of our stock.  In September, our Board authorized an additional $5 billion in repurchases, and we announced a 25 percent increase in the dividend. 
 
Gross Profit
 
Gross profit was $1.98 billion, or 54.2 percent of revenue.  This was up $200 million from the prior quarter primarily due to higher revenue, as well as a gain of $39 million on the sale of TIs DSL product line that is included in cost of revenue.  Gross profit was up $52 million from the year-ago quarter as a combination of reduced manufacturing costs and the gain on sale more than offset the impact of lower revenue.
 
Operating Expenses
 
Research and development (R&D) expense was $542 million.  This was a decrease of $9 million from the prior quarter and $28 million from the year-ago quarter.  The declines were due to progress in implementing the companys advanced CMOS process development strategy.
 
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense was $429 million.  This was about even with both the prior and year-ago quarters.
 
Operating Profit
 
Operating profit was $1.01 billion, or 27.6 percent of revenue.  This was an increase of $204 million from the prior quarter due to higher gross profit, and an increase of $83 million from the year-ago quarter due to higher gross profit and lower R&D expense.
 
Other Income (Expense) Net (OI&E)
 
OI&E was $53 million.  This was a decrease of $3 million from the prior quarter and $1 million from the year-ago quarter.
 
Income
 
Income from continuing operations was $758 million, or $0.52 per share.  Income from discontinued operations was $18 million due to a reduction of a state tax liability associated with the sale of TIs former Sensors & Controls business.
 
Orders
 
TI orders were $3.55 billion.  This was an increase of $103 million from the prior quarter as higher demand for semiconductor products more than offset a seasonal decline in orders for graphing calculator products.  Orders were up $125 million from the year-ago quarter due to higher demand for semiconductor products.
 
Cash
 
Cash flow from operations was $1.53 billion.  This was an increase of $633 million from the prior quarter primarily due to the receipt of a tax refund and higher net income.  Total cash (cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments) was $3.67 billion at the end of the third quarter.  This was an increase of $88 million from the end of the prior quarter and a decrease of $515 million from the year-ago quarter.  In the third quarter of 2007, the company used $1.41 billion to repurchase 40 million shares of common stock and paid $114 million in dividends to shareholders.  Since the end of the year-ago quarter, the company has used $4.14 billion to repurchase 127 million shares of common stock and paid $346 million in dividends.
Capital Spending and Depreciation
 
Capital expenditures were $152 million.  This was a decrease of $22 million from the prior quarter and $124 million from the year-ago quarter due to lower expenditures for semiconductor manufacturing equipment.  TIs capital expenditures in the quarter were primarily for semiconductor assembly and test equipment.
 
Depreciation was $262 million.  This was an increase of $6 million from the prior quarter and a decrease of $4 million from the year-ago quarter.
 
Accounts Receivable and Inventories
 
Accounts receivable were $2.02 billion at the end of the third quarter.  This was an increase of $126 million from the prior quarter and a decrease of $66 million from the year-ago quarter due to changes in revenue.  Days sales outstanding were 50 at the end of the third quarter, unchanged from the end of the prior quarter and the year-ago quarter.
 
Inventory was $1.45 billion at the end of the third quarter.  This was an increase of
$26 million from the prior quarter.  Compared with a year ago, inventory decreased $41 million.  Days of inventory at the end of the third quarter were 78, unchanged from the end of the prior quarter and up from 73 a year ago.
 
Outlook
 
TI intends to provide a mid-quarter update to its financial outlook on
December 10, 2007, by issuing a press release and holding a conference call.  Both will be available on the companys web site.
 
For the fourth quarter of 2007, TI expects revenue to be in the following ranges:
 
 
TI expects earnings per share to be in the range of $0.48 to $0.54.
 
In 2007, TI continues to expect R&D expense of about $2.2 billion and depreciation of about $1.0 billion.  TI now expects an annual effective tax rate of about 29 percent compared with the prior expectation of 28 percent, and capital expenditures of about $0.7 billion compared with the prior expectation of $0.9 billion. 
 
 
 
Certain amounts in the prior periods financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
Semiconductor
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Semiconductor Highlights
 
 
 
 
Education Technology
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:  This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements in this release that describe our business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of our most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of publication, and we undertake no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About Texas Instruments
 
Texas Instruments Incorporated provides innovative DSP and analog technologies to meet our customers real world signal processing requirements.  In addition to Semiconductor, the company includes the Education Technology business.  TI is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and has manufacturing, design or sales operations in more than 25 countries.
 
Texas Instruments is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TXN.  More information is located on the World Wide Web at .
www.ti.com
TI Trademarks:
DLP
DaVinci
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 


