FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20070122163314.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Registrant's news release dated January 22, 2007, regarding its fourth quarter and 2006 results of operations and financial condition attached hereto as Exhibit 99 is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 9.01. Exhibits
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this report that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the Company or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of the Companys most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
Except as noted, financial results are for continuing operations. The sale of TIs former Sensors & Controls business was completed on April 27, 2006, and that business is reported as a discontinued operation. Also, the Educational & Productivity Solutions segment has been renamed Education Technology to more accurately reflect the strategic focus of this business.
DALLAS (Jan. 22, 2007) - Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today reported fourth-quarter 2006 revenue of $3.46 billion. Revenue declined 8 percent compared with the third quarter due to a broad-based decline in company semiconductor product revenue of 5 percent and a seasonal decline in graphing calculator sales. Compared with the same quarter a year ago, revenue grew 4 percent due to higher demand for the companys semiconductor and calculator products.
For the year, TI revenue grew 16 percent to a record $14.25 billion. Growth was driven primarily by strong demand for the companys analog products, especially high-performance analog, and DSP products.
In the fourth quarter, earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations were $0.45. This included a $0.05 EPS benefit from the reinstatement of the federal research tax credit, which was signed into law in December 2006 and was retroactive to the beginning of the year. Also, in the quarter TI signed new patent license agreements to replace agreements that had previously expired. These included catch-up payments resulting in a $0.01 EPS benefit to cover the period between expiration of the prior agreements and signing of the new agreements. EPS included $0.03 of expense for stock-based compensation.
For the year, EPS from continuing operations of $1.69 increased 30 percent from the prior year. EPS in 2006 included a full year of stock-option expense of $0.14 resulting in $0.07 of additional expense compared with the prior year. The company began expensing employee stock options in the third quarter of 2005.
TI delivered important financial achievements in 2006, said Rich Templeton, TI president and CEO. Specifically, our semiconductor revenue grew more than one and a half times faster than the market, our earnings per share increased almost twice as fast as our revenue, and our return on invested capital expanded to 21.5 percent. Most important to these results was our high-performance analog product line, which grew revenue 33 percent and continued to raise the bar on gross margin for the entire company.
As expected, demand in the fourth quarter of the year was unseasonably weak, and we limited production to reduce our inventories. Even with these pressures, our profitability remained relatively stable, reflecting the benefits of our hybrid manufacturing strategy whereby we outsource to foundries a large part of our most costly production. Challenges continue in the first quarter as we operate in an environment where customers want lower levels of inventory and where growth in the wireless market is skewed to low-priced, basic-featured cell phones instead of higher-priced, full-featured phones.
Entering 2007, we challenge ourselves to keep improving performance. One way well do this is by changing the way we develop advanced digital process technology. Instead of separately creating our own core technology, we will work collaboratively with our foundry partners to specify and drive the next generations of digital process technology, and we will continue making products on these technologies in our world-class factories. This is a natural extension of our existing relationships with foundries that will increase our R&D efficiency and our capital efficiency while maintaining our responsiveness to customers. Additionally, we will stop production at an older digital factory and move its manufacturing equipment into several of our analog factories to support greater analog output.
These changes will be made throughout 2007, and when complete are expected to reduce annualized costs by about $200 million. About 500 jobs are expected to be reduced by year end. In total, the company will take restructuring charges of approximately $55 million, about evenly distributed across the four quarters of 2007.
Gross Profit
 
In the fourth quarter, gross profit was $1.75 billion, or 50.5 percent of revenue. This was a decrease of $184 million from the prior quarter due to lower revenue. It was an increase of $91 million from the year-ago quarter primarily due to lower depreciation in the Semiconductor segment. For the year, gross profit was $7.26 billion, or a record 50.9 percent of revenue. This was a 21 percent increase from the prior year due primarily to higher revenue, as well as lower depreciation, in the Semiconductor segment.
Operating Expenses
 
In the fourth quarter, research and development (R&D) expense was $556 million, or 16.0 percent of revenue. R&D expense was down 2 percent from the prior quarter due to seasonally lower pay and benefits. R&D expense increased $63 million from the year-ago quarter due to higher investment in new semiconductor technology, particularly for wireless applications. For the year, R&D expense was $2.20 billion, or 15.4 percent of revenue. This was an increase of $209 million from the prior year due to higher investment in new semiconductor technology and $48 million of additional stock-based compensation expense.
 
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense was $425 million, or 12.3 percent of revenue. SG&A expense decreased 2 percent from the prior quarter due to seasonally lower pay and benefits, partially offset by higher marketing expense. SG&A expense was $21 million higher than the year-ago quarter primarily because of increased marketing expense. For the year, SG&A expense was $1.70 billion. This was an increase of $226 million from the prior year primarily due to the combination of higher marketing expense in the Semiconductor segment and $77 million of higher stock-based compensation expense.
Operating Profit
 
In the fourth quarter, operating profit was $767 million, or 22.1 percent of revenue. This was a decrease of $163 million from the prior quarter primarily due to lower gross profit in the Semiconductor segment. Operating profit was up slightly from the year-ago quarter. For the year, operating profit was $3.37 billion, or a record 23.6 percent of revenue. This was an increase of $808 million, or 32 percent, due to higher gross profit in the Semiconductor segment.
In the fourth quarter, total stock-based compensation expense of $78 million, or 2.3 percent of revenue, was included in Corporate. This was about even with the prior quarter and a $7 million decrease from the year-ago quarter. For the year, total stock-based compensation was $332 million. This was an increase of $157 million from the prior year, as 2006 was the first full year for employee stock-option expensing, which the company began in the third quarter of 2005.
Other Income (Expense) Net (OI&E)
 
In the fourth quarter, OI&E was $70 million. This was an increase of $15 million from the prior quarter and an increase of $19 million from the year-ago quarter, both due to the settlement of all remaining matters related to grants from the Italian government regarding TIs former memory business operations. For the year, OI&E was $265 million. This was an increase of $60 million from 2005 primarily due to higher interest income.
Net Income
 
In the fourth quarter, income from continuing operations was $671 million, or $0.45 per share.
For the year, income from continuing operations was $2.64 billion, or $1.69 per share. Net income was $4.34 billion, or $2.78 per share. This includes $1.09 per share from discontinued operations, almost all of which was from the gain on the sale of the companys former Sensors & Controls business.
 
The fourth quarter included a cumulative adjustment to income tax expense for the federal research tax credit, which was signed into law in December and was retroactive to the beginning of the year. The overall tax rate, including discrete items and the research tax credit, was 27 percent for 2006.
Orders
 
TI orders were $3.08 billion. This was a decrease of $352 million from the prior quarter and a decrease of $411 million from the year-ago quarter. The decreases were primarily due to lower demand for DSP and DLP
products in the companys Semiconductor segment. For the year, TI orders were $14.02 billion. This was an increase of $1.17 billion from the prior year primarily due to higher demand for the companys analog products.
Cash
 
In the fourth quarter, cash flow from operations was $846 million. This was an increase of $427 million from the prior quarter primarily due to changes in working capital. For the year, cash flow from operations was $2.45 billion. This was a decrease of $1.15 billion from the prior year primarily due to changes in working capital, particularly for the payment of income taxes related to the gain on the sale of the companys former Sensors & Controls business, that more than offset higher income from continuing operations.
Total cash (cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments) was $3.72 billion at the end of the fourth quarter. This was down $467 million from the end of the prior quarter and down $1.61 billion from the end of 2005. In the fourth quarter, the company used $1.13 billion to repurchase 37 million shares and paid $59 million in dividends. For the year, the company used $5.30 billion to repurchase 172 million shares, reducing shares outstanding by 9 percent. In 2006, the company received $3.00 billion of cash from the sale of its former Sensors & Controls business.
Capital Spending and Depreciation
 
In the fourth quarter, capital expenditures were $214 million. This was a decrease of $62 million from the prior quarter and a decrease of $120 million from the year-ago quarter.  TIs capital expenditures in the fourth quarter were primarily for equipment used in the assembly and test of semiconductors. For the year, capital expenditures were $1.27 billion. This was about the same as the prior year. TIs 2006 capital expenditures were primarily for equipment used in the assembly and test of semiconductors, as well as for advanced wafer fabrication equipment used to manufacture semiconductors.
In the fourth quarter, depreciation was $249 million. This was a decrease of $17 million from the prior quarter and a decrease of $87 million from the year-ago quarter. For the year, depreciation was $1.05 billion. This was a decrease of $294 million compared with 2005. About half of this decline was due to the companys change at the beginning of 2006 from an accelerated to a straight-line method of depreciation.
Accounts Receivable and Inventories
 
Accounts receivable were $1.77 billion at the end of the fourth quarter. This was a decrease of $315 million from the prior quarter primarily due to lower revenue. Accounts receivable increased $126 million from the year-ago quarter primarily due to higher revenue.
Days sales outstanding were 46 at the end of the fourth quarter compared with 50 at the end of the prior quarter and 45 at the end of 2005.
Inventory was $1.44 billion at the end of the fourth quarter. This was a decrease of $54 million from the prior quarter as the company reduced production levels. Compared with a year ago, when inventory was below desired levels, inventory increased $252 million. Days of inventory at the end of the fourth quarter were 75 compared with 73 at the end of the prior quarter and 64 a year ago.
Outlook
 
TI intends to provide a mid-quarter update to its financial outlook on March 12, 2007, by issuing a press release and holding a conference call. Both will be available on the companys web site.
For the first quarter of 2007, TI expects revenue to be in the following ranges:
TI expects earnings per share to be in the range of $0.28 to $0.34.
In 2007, TI expects: the annual effective tax rate to be about 28 percent,
expense for R&D to be about $2.3 billion, capital expenditures to be about $0.9 billion, and depreciation to be about $1.0 billion.
 
 
 
Presentation reflects adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158 in the fourth quarter of 2006.
Profit from operations in Corporate includes, in millions of dollars, stock-based compensation expense of $78, $79 and $85 for fourth quarter and third quarter of 2006 and fourth quarter of 2005, and $332 and $175 for years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005.
Profit from operations from Semiconductor for the year ended December 31, 2006, includes, in millions of dollars, second-quarter benefits of $60 from a royalty settlement and $57 from a sales tax refund.
 
Semiconductor
 
 
Semiconductor Highlights
 
 
Education Technology
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this release that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the Company or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of the Companys most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of publication, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Texas Instruments Incorporated provides innovative DSP and analog technologies to meet our customers real world signal processing requirements. In addition to Semiconductor, the company includes the Education Technology business. TI is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and has manufacturing, design or sales operations in more than 25 countries.
Texas Instruments is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TXN. More information is located on the World Wide Web at
www.ti.com
.
TI Trademarks:
DLP
OMAP
DRP
DaVinci
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


