FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20080117163320.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01.  Other Events
The Registrant's news release dated January 17, 2008, regarding the planned retirement of Mr. Thomas J. Engibous, Chairman of the Board, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
ITEM 9.01. Exhibits
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this report that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the Company or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of the Companys most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
DALLAS (January 17, 2008)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today announced that Chairman of the Board Thomas J. Engibous will retire following the companys 2008 stockholders meeting on April 17.   His retirement caps a career during which he led the transformation of TI into one of the semiconductor industrys best-performing and most admired companies.  Richard K. Templeton, who has worked side-by-side with Engibous for the last 15 years, will become the companys new chairman, in addition to his current position as president and chief executive officer.
 
Tom and Rich have shared a common vision of Texas Instruments as a company committed to integrity, quality and innovation.  Both are leaders who drive for results and make a difference, and they along with the people of TI have lifted the company to become one of the most respected in its industry, said David L. Boren, speaking on behalf of the board of directors.   This is a carefully planned transition that has been in process for a number of years.  Rich already has built a great record of leadership and is well-qualified to take this next step as chairman, Boren said.
 
Since 1996, when Engibous became CEO, the value of the companys share price has increased almost 5X.  His contributions are immense and enduring, Templeton said of Engibous.  He focused TI on semiconductor technologies that could drive electronics to new levels of innovation.  Most importantly, he taught us that the only way for TI to succeed was to help our customers succeed.  He knew that the key to building a company in which people would want to invest their time, their trust and their money lay in its ability to care for its customers.
 
Engibous, who turns 55 in January, joined the company in 1976 after graduating from Purdue University.  His ability to inspire people, assess opportunities and connect TIs capabilities with the markets needs earned him loyalty and respect, and cemented his reputation as a strong leader.  He was named president of the companys semiconductor group in 1993, a member of the board of directors in 1996, president and CEO in 1996, and chairman in 1998.
 
Templeton, 49, joined TI after graduating from Union College in 1980.  Early in his career, he demonstrated impressive capability for both the strategic and operational sides of business, as well as a keen understanding of where markets were going and how TI should position itself to succeed in them.  He advanced quickly, becoming president of the companys semiconductor group in 1996, chief operating officer in 2000, and president and CEO in 2004.
 
As CEO, Templeton has invested in R&D and acquisitions to elevate TIs portfolio of analog semiconductors, putting the company in a strong position for future growth as the need for analog continues to expand around the world.  In addition, Templeton has profoundly reshaped the companys manufacturing strategy to increase operating efficiency, get more out of R&D investments and be more responsive to customer demand.  As a result, TIs return on invested capital has more than doubled since 2004, and its operating profit has increased more than 70 percent.
 
About his years at TIs helm, Engibous said, Leading TI has been an honor I never imagined would be mine.  It was challenging, exciting and fulfilling, even when markets were stubborn and economies were unpredictable.  I have worked with great people all over the world, and it has been a pleasure.  Rich is an experienced leader with strong character, intellect and an incomparable ability to analyze business opportunities.  The strategic path that he and his team have chosen is grounded in growth, and I am confident that TI and its shareholders will be well-served.  I look forward to where they will take this company.
 
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments (NYSE: TXN) helps customers solve problems and develop new electronics that make the world smarter, healthier, safer, greener and more fun.   A global semiconductor company, TI innovates through manufacturing, design and sales operations in more than 25 countries.  For more information, go to
www.ti.com.
Trademarks
All registered trademarks and other trademarks belong to their respective owners.


