FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20080623171933.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.03.  Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
On June 23, 2008, the Registrant filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware a Certificate of Elimination that eliminates all references to Series B Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock from the Registrants Certificate of Incorporation.  A copy of the Certificate of Elimination is attached hereto as Exhibit 3 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
ITEM 9.01.  Exhibits
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this report that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of the Companys most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3
   
 Texas Instruments Incorporated, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, in accordance with the provisions of Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, hereby certifies as follows:
 
 1. That the Company filed on June 23, 1998, in the office of the Secretary of State of Delaware,  a Certificate of Designation, which established the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating and other rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of the Companys Series B Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock.
   
 
 2.  That no shares of said Series B Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock are outstanding and no shares thereof will be issued.
   
 
 3.  That at a meeting of the Board of Directors of Texas Instruments Incorporated, the following resolution was adopted:
   
RESOLVED, that the appropriate officers of the Company are hereby authorized and directed to file a Certificate with the office of the Secretary of State of Delaware setting forth a copy of this resolution whereupon all reference to the Series B Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock, as established by a Certificate of Designation filed in the office of the Secretary of State of Delaware on June 23, 1998, no shares of which are outstanding and no shares of which will be issued, shall be eliminated from the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, of the Company.
 
 4.  That accordingly, all references to the Series B Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock be, and they hereby are, eliminated form the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, of the Company.
   
 
 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Texas Instruments Incorporated has caused this certificate to be signed by Joseph F. Hubach, its Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel, and attested by Cynthia H. Haynes, its Assistant Secretary, as of this 20th day of June, 2008.
   
 
 
 
 
ATTEST:
 
 
 
 
 
 


