FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20080721165125.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Registrant's news release dated July 21, 2008, regarding its second quarter 2008 results of operations and financial condition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
ITEM 9.01.  Exhibits
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this report that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of the Companys most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
www.ti.com/ir
Beginning with this earnings release, TI will describe revenue in four
product
categories:  Analog, Embedded Processing, Wireless and Other.  For a complete description of these changes, please reference the materials
 
from the companys conference call and webcast
, held
on
July 1, 2008
, available at
 
www.ti.com/ir
.
DALLAS (July 21, 2008)  Texas Instruments (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today announced second-quarter revenue of $3.35 billion, net income of $588 million and earnings per share of $0.44.
Our core areas of Analog and Embedded Processing delivered solid revenue growth, said Rich Templeton, TIs chairman, president and CEO.  Each grew sequentially and increased 10 percent from a year ago.  These technologies are critical to thousands of different types of electronic equipment, making them some of the most attractive markets in the semiconductor industry.  We believe our portfolio combined with our passion to help customers solve critical problems will drive good long-term growth.
In total, TIs revenue in the second quarter was in the lower half of the companys range of expectations, as were earnings per share.  Demand slowed unexpectedly in June primarily because distributors reduced inventory levels and did not replenish them late in the quarter.  Additionally, Wireless revenue declined in the quarter, continuing its first-quarter weakness.
We believe this slower demand was due to a mix of reasons, including a weaker economic environment and greater confidence in TIs ability to deliver products within short lead times, Templeton said.  Our orders were up in the quarter and backlog grew, but we are cautious given the demand environment we just experienced.  If demand strengthens as quickly as it slowed, we are well-positioned to meet it.
Amounts are in millions of dollars, except per-share amounts.  Except as noted, financial results are for continuing operations.  The sale of TIs former Sensors & Controls business was completed on April 27, 2006, and that business is reported as a discontinued operation.
 
Revenue
TIs revenue declined 2 percent compared with the second quarter of last year as growth in Analog and Embedded Processing was not sufficient to offset declines in Wireless and Other revenue.  Revenue grew 2 percent compared with the prior quarter as growth in Analog, Embedded Processing and Other more than offset the decline in Wireless.
 
 
Additional financial information
Outlook
For the third quarter of 2008, TI expects:
TI will update its third-quarter outlook on September 9, 2008.
For the full year of 2008, TI continues to expect approximately the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Certain amounts in prior periods financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
Safe Harbor Statement
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:   This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of our most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of this release and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments (NYSE: TXN) helps customers solve problems and develop new electronics that make the world smarter, healthier, safer, greener and more fun.  A global semiconductor company, TI innovates through manufacturing, design and sales operations in more than 25 countries.  For more information, go to .
www.ti.com
TI Trademarks:
OMAP
DLP
 
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


