FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20080421163831.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Registrant's news release dated April 21, 2008, regarding its first quarter 2008 results of operations and financial condition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Thomas J. Engibous retired as an executive officer and Chairman of the Board of the Registrant effective April 17, 2008.  Notice of his retirement was previously given in a Form 8-K filed on January 17, 2008.
ITEM 9.01.  Exhibits
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this report that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of the Companys most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
Except as noted, financial results are for continuing operations.  The sale of TIs former Sensors & Controls business was completed on April 27, 2006, and that business is reported as a discontinued operation.
DALLAS (April 21, 2008)  Financial results from Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE:TXN) for the first quarter reflect the companys strengthening position in the market for analog semiconductors.
 
TI revenue was up 3 percent from the year-ago quarter, led by 20 percent growth in high-performance analog semiconductors.  TIs operating profit grew 19 percent.  Analog is making us stronger and will be a great growth opportunity for a very long time.  Analog goes into almost every piece of electronic equipment that is made, and at TI we have the technology and the manufacturing power to serve much more of this market than we are addressing today.  There also are clear benefits to our operating profit, which has grown faster than revenue, and to our cash flow, which we can return to shareholders or reinvest in growth," said Rich Templeton, TIs chairman, president and CEO.
 
Compared with the fourth quarter, TI revenue declined 8 percent primarily due to weaker sales into cell phones, especially high-end cell phones.  Given uncertainty in the near-term economy, we have become more conservative with our outlook for the second quarter.  More strategically, we believe our long-term opportunity is excellent.  Were continuing to do the things needed to be the better choice for our customers, such as adding sales and applications engineers, investing in new products, and increasing assembly/test capability, Templeton said.
 
In addition to traditional markets in communications and entertainment, analog semiconductors and digital signal processors are at the heart of solving some of the worlds most challenging problems in healthcare, energy and security.  Weve achieved early positions in each of these, all of which are just beginning to leverage semiconductor technology, Templeton said.
TI financial results
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
 
For the second quarter of 2008, TI currently expects its financial results to fall within the following ranges:
 
The company will update its second-quarter outlook on June 9, 2008.
 
For the full year 2008, TI continues to expect the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Certain amounts in prior periods financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
 
Semiconductor segment
 
 
 
 
 
Semiconductor highlights
 
 
 
 
Education Technology segment
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of our most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of this release and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About Texas Instruments
 
Texas Instruments (NYSE: TXN) helps customers solve problems and develop new electronics that make the world smarter, healthier, safer, greener and more fun.  A global semiconductor company, TI innovates through manufacturing, design and sales operations in more than 25 countries.  For more information, go to .
www.ti.com
TI Trademark:
OMAP
 
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


