FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20081020163527.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Registrant's news release dated October 20, 2008, regarding its third-quarter 2008 results of operations and financial condition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
ITEM 9.01. Exhibits
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this report that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of the Companys Form 10-Q for the second quarter of 2008, which was filed on July 31, 2008.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
DALLAS (Oct. 20, 2008)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today announced third-quarter revenue of $3.39 billion, net income of $563 million and earnings per share of $0.43.
We entered the third quarter with a cautious view of the economy and its impact on our markets.  Revenue was weak, as expected, because consumers and corporations reduced their spending in this uncertain economy, said Rich Templeton, TI chairman, president and chief executive officer.
Even so, the soundness of our strategic direction was underscored by results from our core businesses.  Revenue for our Analog business was steady and revenue for our Embedded Processing business grew 9 percent compared with a year ago.  Although not immune to near-term economic pressures, these are two of the best long-term opportunities in our industry.  We are a leader in each and expect to strengthen our position even in this period of economic weakness.
Our outlook for the fourth quarter is for revenue to decline substantially based on weak order trends over the past few months.  In anticipation of declining demand, we reduced our own inventory aggressively in the third quarter, which brought factory utilization down and put additional pressure on our profitability.  We also worked closely with our distributors to reduce the inventory in our channels.  We will accelerate our inventory reduction in the fourth quarter.  We also will continue to reduce expenses and capital spending.  At the same time, we will continue to invest in opportunities to strengthen our positions in Analog and Embedded Processing.
TI also announced today it is taking actions that will reduce expenses by about one-third, or more than $200 million annualized, in its Wireless business, especially in its cellular baseband operation.  The company is also actively pursuing the sale of the merchant portion of this operation and is in discussions with potential buyers.  In the custom portion of this operation, TI will continue to support select programs.
TI will focus its remaining Wireless investments in OMAP applications processors, which are at the heart of many of todays most exciting smartphone products.
TM
Smartphones are growing rapidly and our handset customers are differentiating their product lines through applications and user interfaces.  We anticipated this opportunity and have been investing in it for more than a decade.  As a result, our OMAP applications processors lead the market, and we will concentrate on extending this lead, Templeton said.
Reductions in cellular baseband operations will begin immediately and are expected to be complete by June 2009.  The full annualized savings of more than $200 million will be achieved once these reductions are complete.  The company expects to take restructuring charges of approximately $110 million across the next three quarters.
 
Financial summary
Amounts are in millions of dollars, except per-share amounts.  Except as noted, financial results are for continuing operations.  The sale of TIs former Sensors & Controls business was completed on April 27, 2006, and that business is reported as a discontinued operation.
Revenue
TIs revenue declined 8 percent compared with the third quarter of last year as growth in Embedded Processing was more than offset by declines in Wireless and Other revenue.  Revenue was about even with the prior quarter.
 
Revenue by product category for historical periods reflects minor reclassifications to previously reported amounts.
 
The product categories include:
 &
Analog:
 
high-performance analog, high-volume analog
logic
 
Embedded Processing:
 
catalog, communications infrastructure and automotive DSPs
and microcontrollers
 
Wireless:
 
basebands, OMAP applications processors,
connectivity products for handsets
Other:  DLP products, calculators, RISC microprocessors, ASIC products, royalties
Additional financial information
 
Outlook
For the fourth quarter of 2008, TI expects:
Semiconductor revenue is expected to decline in the range of 10 percent from the third quarter and Education Technology is expected to decline seasonally.
This EPS estimate includes a $0.05 benefit from the reinstatement of the federal research tax credit, which was signed into law in October 2008 and was retroactive to the beginning of the year.  The estimate also includes charges of about $0.01 per share associated with the companys restructuring actions in its Wireless business.
TI will update its fourth-quarter outlook on December 8, 2008.
For the full year of 2008, TI expects approximately the following:
*  Includes the full-year impact of the reinstatement of the federal research tax credit, which reduces the annual effective tax rate by about 2 percentage points.
 
Certain amounts in prior periods financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this release that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of the Companys Form 10-Q for the second quarter of 2008, which was filed on July 31, 2008.  The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments (NYSE: TXN) helps customers solve problems and develop new electronics that make the world smarter, healthier, safer, greener and more fun.  A global semiconductor company, TI innovates through manufacturing, design and sales operations in more than 25 countries.  For more information, go to .
www.ti.com
TI trademarks:
   OMAP
   DLP
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


