FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20080122163537.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Registrant's news release dated January 22, 2008, regarding its fourth quarter and 2007 results of operations and financial condition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 9.01.  Exhibits
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this report that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of the Company or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of the Companys most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form  8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
Except as noted, financial results are for continuing operations.  The sale of TIs former Sensors & Controls business was completed on April 27, 2006, and that business is reported as a discontinued operation.
DALLAS (Jan. 22, 2008)  Financial results reported today by Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE:TXN) reflect the companys strong positions in analog and digital signal processing semiconductors.
Growth resumed in the fourth quarter with a revenue increase of 3 percent from the same quarter a year ago.  This growth was led by demand for TIs digital signal processors and high-performance analog products, which were up 12 percent each.  Gross profit increased 10 percent and operating profit increased 30 percent, reflecting the quality of the company's product portfolio the efficiency of its manufacturing strategiesand effective expense management.   For the year, cash flow from operations was a record $4.41 billion and return on invested capital was more than 25 percent.
,
 
It was a good quarter and a good year for TI.  We delivered more value to shareholders and built momentum with customers.  Perhaps most important to our future performance, we sharpened our focus on analog with increases in dedicated research and development, sales support and manufacturing capacity.  Evidence of our potential in this area was notable in high-performance analog where we again made substantial market share gains, said Rich Templeton, TI president and chief executive officer.  We move into the first quarter of 2008 expecting year-over-year growth to accelerate in our semiconductor operations. 
Details of financial performance for both the fourth quarter and the year are in the following paragraphs.
Fourth Quarter 2007
Year 2007
Outlook
TI intends to provide a mid-quarter update to its financial outlook on
March 10, 2008, by issuing a press release and holding a conference call.  Both will be available on the companys web site.
For the first quarter of 2008, TI expects revenue to be in the following ranges:
TI expects EPS to be in the range of $0.43 to $0.49.
In 2008, TI expects R&D expense of about $2.0 billion, capital expenditures of about $0.9 billion and depreciation of about $1.0 billion.  The annual effective tax rate is estimated to be about 31 percent, up from 29 percent in 2007.  The tax rate is based on current tax law and does not assume reinstatement of the federal R&D tax credit, which expired at the end of 2007.   
 
 
 
 
 
Certain amounts in the prior periods financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
Semiconductor Segment
 
Semiconductor Highlights
 
 
 
Education Technology Segment
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:  This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements in this release that describe our business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the text under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of our most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of publication, and we undertake no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments (NYSE: TXN) helps customers solve problems and develop new electronics that make the world smarter, healthier, safer, greener and more fun.  A global semiconductor company, TI innovates through manufacturing, design and sales operations in more than 25 countries.  For more information, go to www.ti.com.
TI Trademarks:
DLP
OMAP
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


