FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20090420163759.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Registrant's news release dated April 20, 2009, regarding its first quarter 2009 results of operations and financial condition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
ITEM 9.01.  Exhibits
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this report that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see Item 1A, Risk Factors in the Companys most recently filed Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

DALLAS (April 20, 2009)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today announced first-quarter revenue of $2.09 billion, net income of $17 million and earnings per share (EPS) of $0.01.
TIs revenue and earnings exceeded expectations for the quarter, but the company emphasized caution about the business climate.  Chairman, President and CEO Rich Templeton explained, "Demand for our products has begun to stabilize after sharp drops in the past two quarters.  Many customers have increased orders for TI products as they have begun to slow down their inventory reductions.  However, we remain sensitive to continuing weakness in the global economy, and we have yet to see signs of a broad-based recovery in our business.  In this environment, we will keep our operations flexible so that we can respond quickly to any shifts in demand, whether up or down."
Operational performance in the quarter was good, especially reduction of the companys inventory.  "We reduced our own inventory by $277 million, and at the same time worked with distributors to reduce channel inventory by $132 million.  Our inventory reductions are essentially complete, and we expect to moderately increase production levels in our factories during the second quarter," Templeton said.
"Our people are focusing on opportunities for growth in Analog and Embedded Processing.  Among highlights in the quarter were the acquisition of CICLON Semiconductor, a specialized supplier of analog chips for power management, and qualification of a new assembly/test factory.  Both improve our ability to serve customers."
1Q09 financial summary
Amounts are in millions of dollars, except per-share amounts.
TIs revenue declined 36 percent compared with the first quarter of 2008 and declined 16 percent compared with the fourth quarter of 2008.  Revenue in all segments declined in both comparisons.
TIs operating profit declined 99 percent compared with the year-ago quarter and 80 percent compared with the fourth quarter.  The decline from a year ago was due to lower revenue in all segments and the associated lower gross profit, as well as the impact of underutilized manufacturing assets and restructuring charges.  Collectively, these more than offset lower operating expenses and manufacturing cost reductions.  The decline from the prior quarter was due to lower revenue in all segments and the associated lower gross profit, as well as the impact of underutilized manufacturing assets.  These more than offset lower restructuring charges, lower operating expenses and manufacturing cost reductions.
Excluding restructuring charges of $105 million, TIs operating profit was $115 million in the first quarter, or 5.5 percent of revenue, and EPS was $0.07.  (See reconciliation table at the end of this release.)
1Q09 segment results
 
Operating profit declined in all segments from a year ago primarily because of lower revenue, as well as restructuring charges.  Compared with the prior quarter, operating profit declined in the Analog and Other segments due to lower revenue, although increased in Wireless due to lower restructuring charges.  
 
Restructuring charges were as follows:
1Q09 additional financial information
Outlook
For the second quarter of 2009, TI expects:
The EPS estimate includes a negative impact of $0.05 per share resulting from about $100 million of restructuring charges.
TI will update its second-quarter outlook on June 8, 2009.
For the full year of 2009, TI continues to expect approximately the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain amounts in prior periods financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
 
 
 
The following describes TIs results excluding the impact of restructuring charges.  Management believes this presentation provides investors additional insight into the underlying business conditions and results.
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
 
This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "foresees," "forecasts," "estimates" or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements herein that describe the Company's business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the "Risk Factors" discussion in Item 1A of the Company's most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments (NYSE: TXN) helps customers solve problems and develop new electronics that make the world smarter, healthier, safer, greener and more fun.  A global semiconductor company, TI innovates through design, sales and manufacturing operations in more than 30 countries.  For more information, go to .
www.ti.com
TI trademarks:
   OMAP
   DLP
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


