FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20091019163917.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Registrant's news release dated October 19, 2009, regarding its third quarter 2009 results of operations and financial condition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 9.01.  Exhibits
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this report that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see Item 1A, Risk Factors in the Companys most recently filed Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
DALLAS (Oct. 19, 2009)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today announced third-quarter revenue of $2.88 billion, net income of $538 million and earnings per share (EPS) of $0.42.
 
Our performance in the quarter exceeded our expectations and was led by a second consecutive quarter of 20-percent growth in Analog, said Rich Templeton, TI chairman, president and CEO.  We are encouraged with the strong sequential increase in demand for our products over the past two quarters as our customers are winding down their inventory corrections and have begun to increase production levels in their factories.  This revenue growth, combined with our early actions to pare costs so that we would not be dependent upon an uncertain rebound in the overall economy, has resulted in solid improvements in our profitability.
Our balance sheet is strong and has allowed us to opportunistically make investments in Analog and Embedded Processing throughout this downturn that should provide returns for years to come.  For example, we are increasing our investments in manufacturing capacity to support higher levels of growth, including start-up of the worlds first facility to produce analog chips on 300-millimeter wafers.  Applying advanced manufacturing technology to analog at an attractive cost will give TI an opportunity to accelerate our strategy and extend our leadership.
Although we still have much work to do, our progress has been good.
 
3Q09 financial summary
Amounts are in millions of dollars, except per-share amounts.
 
TIs revenue declined 15 percent compared with the third quarter of 2008 and increased 17 percent compared with the second quarter of 2009.  The decline from a year ago was the result of declines across all segments, particularly the Wireless segment.  The increase from the prior quarter was due to growth in all segments, particularly the Analog segment.
Despite revenue that was $507 million lower compared with the year-ago quarter, TIs operating profit grew $17 million primarily due to lower operating expenses, as well as lower manufacturing costs.  Operating profit increased $420 million compared with the second quarter primarily .  Operating profit increased from the prior quarter in all segments.
due to higher revenue and the associated gross profit
 
3Q09 segment results
 
 
The product categories in each segment are as follows:
 &
Analog:  high-volume analog
logic, high-performance analog (includes data converters, amplifiers and interface products) and power management
Embedded Processing:  DSPs and microcontrollers used in catalog, communications infrastructure and automotive applications
Wireless:  DSPs and analog used in basebands for handsets, OMAP applications processors and
connectivity products for wireless applications
Other:  includes DLP products, calculators, ASIC products, RISC microprocessors and royalties
From a year ago, operating profit increased in the Analog segment primarily due to operating expense reductions, as well as higher gross profit.  Operating profit in the Embedded Processing and Other segments increased due to operating expense reductions.  Operating profit in the Wireless segment declined due to lower gross profit, which was partially offset by lower operating expenses.
Compared with the prior quarter, operating profit increased in the Analog, Embedded Processing and Other segments due to higher gross profit.  Operating profit increased in the Wireless segment primarily due to the combination of higher gross profit and lower restructuring charges.
Restructuring charges were as follows:
 
 
 
3Q09 additional financial information
 
 
Outlook
For the fourth quarter of 2009, TI expects:
The EPS estimate includes a negative impact of $0.01 per share resulting from restructuring charges.
TI will update its fourth-quarter outlook on December 8, 2009.
For the full year of 2009, TI expects approximately the following:
 
 
 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain amounts in prior periods financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements herein that describe the Company's business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of the Company's most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments (NYSE: TXN) helps customers solve problems and develop new electronics that make the world smarter, healthier, safer, greener and more fun.  A global semiconductor company, TI innovates through design, sales and manufacturing operations in more than 30 countries.  For more information, go to .
www.ti.com
TI trademarks:
   OMAP
   DLP
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


