FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20100426163907.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Registrant's news release dated April 26, 2010, regarding its first-quarter 2010 results of operations and financial condition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
ITEM 9.01.  Exhibits
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this report that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of the Company's most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
DALLAS (April 26, 2010)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE:TXN) today announced first-quarter revenue of $3.21 billion, net income of $658 million and earnings per share of 52 cents.
TI invested in new manufacturing capacity for both wafer fabs and assembly/test facilities during the downturn in 2009.  The strategic investments weve made over the years are delivering strong growth and market share gains.  This was the fourth quarter of excellent sequential increases, with the combined revenue of our Analog and Embedded Processing businesses setting a new record level, said Rich Templeton, TI chairman, president and chief executive officer. 
Momentum continues into the second quarter as demand for our products remains strong, and we add more manufacturing capacity to support our customers.  Production output is at an all-time high, and capacity is increasing each quarter in 2010 as we add 200-millimeter equipment purchased last year and as we ramp the industrys first 300-millimeter Analog facility, from which we will start shipments in the fourth quarter.
 
 
1Q10 financial summary
Amounts are in millions of dollars, except per-share amounts.
TIs operating profit increased compared with the first quarter of 2009 and the prior quarter primarily due to higher gross profit.  Higher gross profit compared with the year-ago quarter included the impact of higher revenue and the benefit associated with higher utilization of manufacturing assets.  In addition, restructuring charges were lower compared with a year ago.
 
1Q10 segment results
* All periods have been restated to reflect the transfer of a low-power wireless product line from the Analog segment to the Wireless segment.  During 2009, revenue from this product line was $68 million, and it operated at a loss of $17 million.
  
Analog:
(includes high-volume analog & logic, high-performance analog and power management products)
  
Embedded Processing:
(includes digital signal processor and microcontroller catalog products that are sold across a wide variety of markets, as well as application-specific products that are used in communications infrastructure and automotive electronics)
  
Wireless:
(includes
connectivity products,
OMAP applications processors and baseband products)
Other:
(includes
DLP
products, custom ASIC products, calculators and royalties)
Restructuring charges were as follows:
1Q10 additional financial information
Outlook
For the second quarter of 2010, TI expects:
TI will update its second-quarter outlook on June 8, 2010.
For the full year of 2010, TI continues to expect approximately the following:
The tax rate estimate is based on current tax law and does not assume reinstatement of the federal R&D tax credit, which expired at the end of 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of the Company's most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments (NYSE: TXN) helps customers solve problems and develop new electronics that make the world smarter, healthier, safer, greener and more fun.  A global semiconductor company, TI innovates through design, sales and manufacturing operations in more than 30 countries.  For more information, go to www.ti.com.
TI trademarks:
OMAP
DLP
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 


