FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20101207163653.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure
The Registrants news release dated December 7, 2010, regarding the Registrants outlook for the fourth quarter of 2010 attached hereto as Exhibit 99 is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 8.01.  Other Events
 
On December 2, 2010, the Registrants Board of Directors amended the Texas Instruments 2009 Director Compensation Plan (the Plan).  As amended, the Plan provides for each director to be granted annually an option with a grant-date value of approximately $100,000 determined using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model and a restricted stock unit (RSU) award with a grant-date value of approximately $100,000.  Previously, the Plan provided that directors shall receive an annual grant of 2,500 RSUs and an option for 7,000 shares of the Registrants common stock.  The 2011 equity grants will be the first to reflect these changes.  The amended Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
ITEM 9.01.  Exhibits
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe our business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of our most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 2009 DIRECTOR COMPENSATION PLAN
 
As Amended December 2, 2010
 
 
SECTION 1.  PURPOSE.
 
The Texas Instruments 2009 Director Compensation Plan (the Plan) is intended as a successor plan to the Companys 2003 Director Compensation Plan (2003 Plan).  This Plan is designed to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve as directors of the Company and to increase the proprietary and vested interest of such directors in the growth and performance of the Company.  This Plan is effective for Awards granted on or after the Effective Date.  With respect to Deferred Compensation, as of the Effective Date, the Post-2004 Accounts (as defined in the 2003 Plan) of the participants in the 2003 Plan are hereby merged into the Deferred Compensation accounts under this Plan and the amounts in those Accounts shall be governed thereafter by the terms of this Plan.  A ny elections made under Section 8 of the 2003 Plan shall remain applicable to and shall govern the Deferred Compensation Accounts of this Plan unless changed by the Participant in accordance with the terms of this Plan.
 
SECTION 2.  DEFINITIONS.
 
As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
(h)       means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
(t)        means this Texas Instruments 2009 Director Compensation Plan.
Plan
(w)      means the Secretary of the Company.
Secretary
(dd)     means a calendar year.
Year
SECTION 3.  ELIGIBILITY.
Each Director shall be eligible to defer Eligible Compensation and to receive Awards under the Plan.
SECTION 4.  ADMINISTRATION.
This Plan shall be administered by the Administrator. Subject to the terms of the Plan and applicable law, the Administrator shall have full power and authority to:  (i) interpret, construe and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement relating to, or Award granted or Accounts established under, the Plan; (ii) establish, amend, suspend or waive such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as it deems appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan; and (iii) make any other determination and take any other action that it deems necessary or desirable for the administration of this Plan.  All decisions of the Administrator shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties, including the Company, the stockholders and the Directors.
SECTION 5.  SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN.
SECTION 7.  ANNUAL EQUITY GRANTS.
SECTION 8.  OPTIONS.
The Options granted under this Plan will be nonstatutory stock options not intended to qualify under Section 422 of the Code and shall have the terms and conditions described in this Section 8:
SECTION 9.  RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS.
Each Restricted Stock Unit granted under this Plan shall be paid or settled by the issuance of one Share and shall have the terms and conditions described in this Section 9:
SECTION 10.  STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS (SARs).
SECTION 11.  DEFERRED COMPENSATION.
 
SECTION 12.  OTHER STOCK-BASED AWARDS.
The Administrator is hereby authorized to grant to Directors such other Awards that are denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to, Shares (including, without limitation, securities convertible into Shares) as are deemed by the Administrator to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan.  Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Administrator shall determine the terms and conditions of such Awards.  Shares or other securities delivered pursuant to a purchase right granted under this Section 12 shall be purchased for such consideration, which may be paid by such method or methods and in such form or forms, including, without limitation, cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards, or other property, or any combination thereof, as the Administrator shall dete rmine, the value of which consideration, as established by the Administrator, shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of such Shares or other securities as of the date such purchase right is granted.  The Company intends that such other Awards granted pursuant to this Section shall comply with Section 409A of the Code if applicable.
SECTION 13.  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION.
Except to the extent prohibited by or inconsistent with applicable law:
SECTION 14.  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
SECTION 15.  EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE PLAN.
The Plan shall be effective as of the date of its approval by the stockholders of the Company.
SECTION 16.  TERM OF THE PLAN.
No Award shall be granted or compensation deferred under the Plan after the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date of the Plan.  However, unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan or in an applicable Award Agreement, any Award granted or Account established prior to the termination of the Plan may extend beyond such date, and the authority of the Committee and the Board under Section 12 to amend, alter, adjust, suspend, discontinue, or terminate any such Award or Account, or to waive any conditions or rights thereunder, shall extend beyond such date.

Exhibit 99
DALLAS (Dec. 7, 2010)  In a scheduled update to its business outlook for the fourth quarter of 2010, Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today narrowed its expected ranges for revenue and earnings per share (EPS).
The company currently expects its financial results to be within the following ranges:
The company will hold a conference call at 4 p.m. Central time today to discuss this update.  This conference call will be available live at .  TIs original fourth-quarter outlook was published in the companys third-quarter 2010 earnings release on October 25, available at .  TIs fourth quarter ends on December 31.
www.ti.com/ir
www.ti.com/ir
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of TIs most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments (NYSE: TXN) helps customers solve problems and develop new electronics that make the world smarter, healthier, safer, greener and more fun.  A global semiconductor company, TI innovates through design, sales and manufacturing operations in more than 30 countries.  For more information, go to .
www.ti.com


