FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20101025163520.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Registrants news release dated October 25, 2010, regarding its third-quarter 2010 results of operations and financial condition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this report that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of TIs most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
TI reports financial results for 3Q10
DALLAS (Oct. 25, 2010)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today announced third-quarter revenue of $3.74 billion, net income of $859 million and earnings per share of 71 cents.
Our strong performance was driven by growth in all of our segments said Rich Templeton, TI chairman, president and chief executive officer.  TIs continuing transformation to a company focused on Analog and Embedded Processing delivered new highs for both gross and operating margins.  Strong earnings per share demonstrate the combined impact of solid profits and our diligence to return excess capital to our shareholders through stock repurchases.
,
Demand from industrial markets was especially strong, while consumer demand cooled, impacting markets such as computing and televisions.  Across a wide array of markets, our Analog and Embedded Processing products and Wireless smartphone chips continued to gain share.  These products are broadly needed in todays electronic equipment, and our market share gains reflect the focused investments weve made in our portfolio, applications support and manufacturing capacity.
Importantly, we soon will begin initial shipments from RFAB, the worlds first 300-millimeter manufacturing facility for analog semiconductors.  In the quarter, we also purchased a 200-millimeter analog manufacturing facility in Aizu, Japan, and this month we began our first semiconductor manufacturing operations in China with the purchase of a facility in the high-tech region of Chengdu.  These purchases have been made at substantial discounts, and they support our plans to continue gaining market share over the long term.
As we move into the fourth quarter, we expect sequentially lower revenue reflecting a combination of seasonal patterns, continued soft demand in computing and consumer markets, and slowing growth in the industrial market, Templeton concluded.
3Q10 financial summary
Amounts are in millions of dollars, except per-share amounts.
 
TIs operating profit increased compared with the third quarter of 2009 and the prior quarter of 2010 due to higher gross profit, which reflects higher revenue.
 
3Q10 segment results
 
Note: 3Q09 has been restated to reflect the 1Q10 transfer of a low-power wireless product line from the Analog segment to the Wireless segment.  For 2009, revenue from this product line was $68 million, and it operated at a loss of $17 million.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Analog:
(includes high-volume analog & logic, high-performance analog and power management products)
  
Embedded Processing:
(includes digital signal processor and microcontroller catalog products that are sold across a wide variety of markets, as well as application-specific products that are used in communications infrastructure and automotive electronics)
  
Wireless:
(includes
connectivity products, OMAP applications processors and baseband products)
Other:  
(includes
DLP
products, custom ASIC products, calculators and royalties)
Restructuring charges were as follows:
 
 
3Q10 additional financial information
Outlook
For the fourth quarter of 2010, TI expects:
TI will update its fourth-quarter outlook on December 7, 2010.
For the full year of 2010, TI expects approximately the following:
The tax rate estimate is based on current tax law and does not assume reinstatement of the federal R&D tax credit, which expired at the end of 2009.
 
 
 
 
As required by accounting rule ASC 260, net income allocated to unvested restricted stock units (RSUs) that receive dividends is excluded from the calculation of EPS.  The amount excluded was $13 million, $6 million and $11 million for the quarters ending September 30, 2010, September 30, 2009 and June 30, 2010, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of TI's most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments (NYSE: TXN) helps customers solve problems and develop new electronics that make the world smarter, healthier, safer, greener and more fun.  A global semiconductor company, TI innovates through design, sales and manufacturing operations in more than 30 countries.  For more information, go to .
www.ti.com
TI trademarks:
OMAP
DLP
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


