FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20100719163427.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Registrant's news release dated July 19, 2010, regarding its second-quarter 2010 results of operations and financial condition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this report that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of the Company's most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
DALLAS (July 19, 2010)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today announced second-quarter revenue of $3.50 billion, net income of $769 million and earnings per share of 62 cents.
Our Analog and Embedded Processing businesses turned in double-digit sequential growth, outpacing their respective markets and again confirming their ability to positively impact the financial performance of TI.  As a result, we delivered our highest-ever quarterly operating profit, said Rich Templeton, TI chairman, president and chief executive officer. 
Orders were strong in the quarter, backlog increased and we expect to grow revenue again in the third quarter.  Our steady investments in production capacity, even through last years downturn, are now allowing us to meet higher demand levels from customers and simultaneously reduce lead times, which we believe is not only in the best interest of our customers, but will also help us gain share.
As we continue our transformation to an Analog and Embedded Processing company, we believe we can significantly outgrow these markets by offering products that are optimized to the needs of our customers and by putting manufacturing capacity in place before its needed, Templeton said. 
2Q10 financial summary
Amounts are in millions of dollars, except per-share amounts.
TIs operating profit increased compared with the second quarter of 2009 and the prior quarter of 2010 due to higher gross profit, which primarily reflects higher revenue.  In addition, compared with a year ago, higher gross profit also reflects the benefit associated with higher utilization of manufacturing assets.
 
2Q10 segment results
Note:  2Q09 has been restated to reflect the 1Q10 transfer of a low-power wireless product line from the Analog segment to the Wireless segment.  During all of 2009, revenue from this product line was $68 million, and it operated at a loss of $17 million.
  
Analog:
(includes high-volume analog & logic, high-performance analog and power management products)
  
Embedded Processing:
(includes digital signal processor and microcontroller catalog products that are sold across a wide variety of markets, as well as application-specific products that are used in communications infrastructure and automotive electronics)
  
Wireless:
(includes
connectivity products, OMAP applications processors and baseband products)
Other:  
(includes
DLP
products, custom ASIC products, calculators and royalties)
Restructuring charges were as follows:
2Q10 additional financial information
Outlook
For the third quarter of 2010, TI expects:
TI will update its third-quarter outlook on September 9, 2010.
For the full year of 2010, TI expects approximately the following:
The tax rate estimate is based on current tax law and does not assume reinstatement of the federal R&D tax credit, which expired at the end of 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
#   #   #
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of the Company's most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments (NYSE: TXN) helps customers solve problems and develop new electronics that make the world smarter, healthier, safer, greener and more fun.  A global semiconductor company, TI innovates through design, sales and manufacturing operations in more than 30 countries.  For more information, go to .
www.ti.com
TI trademarks:
OMAP
DLP
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 


