FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20100126135808.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Registrant's news release dated January 25, 2010, regarding its fourth quarter and 2009 results of operations and financial condition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 9.01.  Exhibits
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements in this report that describe the Companys business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of the Companys most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
Conference call on TI web site at 4:30 p.m. Central time today
DALLAS (Jan. 25, 2010)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today announced fourth-quarter revenue of $3.00 billion, net income of $655 million and earnings per share (EPS) of $0.52.
TIs growth and improving performancereflect our focus on Analog and Embedded Processing.  These are large, diverse businesses that give us access to the worlds fastest-growing electronics markets, said Rich Templeton, TI chairman, president and chief executive officer.
 
In the fourth quarter, demand was strong across end markets without the usual holiday slowdown.  Throughout, we believe customer and channel inventories have been lean.  With demand continuing to be solid and inventories well below historical levels, our outlook for the first quarter reflects the likelihood of sequential growth instead of the typical seasonal decline.
We continue to make investments to support customers and drive growth, including the ramp-up of the industry's first 300-millimeter analog factory in Richardson, Texas, Templeton concluded.
 
 
4Q09 financial summary
Amounts are in millions of dollars, except per-share amounts.
TIs operating profit increased compared with the fourth quarter of 2008 and the prior quarter primarily due to higher gross profit, which included the impact of higher revenue and the benefit associated with higher utilization of manufacturing assets.  In addition, restructuring charges were lower compared with a year ago.
 
4Q09 segment results
 
 
Restructuring charges were as follows:
 
 
4Q09 additional financial information
 
Year 2009 financial summary
TIs operating profit decreased 18 percent in 2009 due to lower revenue.  The impact of lower revenue was partially offset by reductions in operating expenses.  Operating profit included the negative impact of $212 million in restructuring charges, which were down $42 million from 2008.
Year 2009 segment results
 
Restructuring charges negatively impacted each segments operating profit as follows:
 
2009 additional financial information
Capital expenditures were $753 million in 2009, down $10 million from 2008.  
The company used $954 million to repurchase 45.3 million shares of its common stock and paid dividends of $567 million.
Outlook
For the first quarter of 2010, TI expects:
Revenue:  $2.95 - 3.19 billion
Earnings per share:  $0.44 - 0.52
TI will update its first-quarter outlook on March 8, 2010.
For the full year of 2010, TI expects approximately the following:
R&D expense:  $1.5 billion
Capital expenditures:  $0.9 billion
Depreciation:  $0.9 billion
Annual effective tax rate:  31%
The tax rate estimate is based on current tax law and does not assume reinstatement of the federal R&D tax credit, which expired at the end of 2009.
 
 
 
 
Certain amounts in prior periods financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe the Company's business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of the Company's most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments (NYSE: TXN) helps customers solve problems and develop new electronics that make the world smarter, healthier, safer, greener and more fun.  A global semiconductor company, TI innovates through design, sales and manufacturing operations in more than 30 countries.  For more information, go to www.ti.com.
TI trademarks:
OMAP
DLP
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


