FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20110915165519.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01.  Other Events
The Registrants news release dated September 15, 2011, regarding a planned dividend increase attached hereto as Exhibit 99 is incorporated by reference herein.
 
ITEM 9.01  Exhibits
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussions in Item 1A of TIs most recent Form 10-K and of TIs Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
      
DALLAS (Sept. 15, 2011) Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today said it will raise its quarterly cash dividend 31 percent.  The new quarterly dividend will be $0.17 per share of common stock, resulting in annual dividend payments of $0.68 per common share.  The current quarterly dividend is $0.13 per share.
The increase reflects the strategic shift of TIs product portfolio to a greater percentage of analog and embedded processing technologies, which generate high returns on investment and strong cash flow.
This dividend increase reflects the strength of our strategy, our confidence in our future, and our commitment to shareholders, said Rich Templeton, TI chairman, president and chief executive officer.
The new quarterly cash dividend will be payable November 21, 2011, to stockholders of record on October 31, 2011, contingent upon formal declaration by the Board of Directors at its regular meeting in October.
This is the eighth consecutive year TI has increased its dividend.  The company has paid dividends to its shareholders on an uninterrupted basis since June 1, 1962.
Safe Harbor Statement
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of TIs most recent Form 10-K and of TIs Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011.  The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments semiconductor innovations help 80,000 customers unlock the possibilities of the world as it could be  smarter, safer, greener, healthier and more fun.  Our commitment to building a better future is ingrained in everything we do  from the responsible manufacturing of our semiconductors, to caring for our employees, to giving back inside our communities.  This is just the beginning of our story.  Learn more at .
www.ti.com
 


