FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20111215164114.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 3.01. Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule; Transfer of Listing
   
On December 15, 2011, Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) provided written notice to the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) that TI expects to voluntarily delist from the NYSE at the close of trading on December 30 2011, and intends to transfer its listing to the NASDAQ Global Select Market (NASDAQ) to commence trading on the next business day, January 3, 2012.  TIs common stock has been approved for listing on NASDAQ, and will continue to trade under the stock symbol TXN.
A copy of the press release issued by TI in connection with its move from the NYSE to NASDAQ is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01. Exhibits
   
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
DALLAS (Dec. 15, 2011)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today announced that it is transferring its stock exchange listing to The NASDAQ Global Select Market from The New York Stock Exchange, effective January 1, 2012.  TI shares will begin trading as a NASDAQ-listed security on January 3, 2012, and will continue to trade under the symbol TXN.
NASDAQ is home to many of the worlds best technology companies and is a natural fit for TI.  NASDAQ itself has always been an early adopter of technology.  This move will enhance our public visibility while offering our shareholders cost-effective access to advanced trading technologies, said Ron Slaymaker, TI vice president and head of investor relations.
We welcome Texas Instruments to NASDAQ.  TI is one of the worlds most significant global semiconductor companies and its technologies power many of the most popular consumer and enterprise electronics products on the market today.  TI has a long history of focusing on shareholder value and this move will only reinforce that reputation, said Bruce Aust, Executive Vice President, Global Corporate Client Group, NASDAQ OMX.
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments semiconductor innovations help 80,000 customers unlock the possibilities of the world as it could be  smarter, safer, greener, healthier and more fun.  Our commitment to building a better future is ingrained in everything we do  from the responsible manufacturing of our semiconductors, to caring for our employees, to giving back inside our communities.  This is just the beginning of our story.  Learn more at .
www.ti.com


