FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20110124163545.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Registrants news release dated January 24, 2011, regarding the Registrants fourth quarter and 2010 results of operations and financial condition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
ITEM 9.01.  Exhibits
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe our business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of our most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 Exhibit 99
DALLAS (Jan. 24, 2011)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today announced fourth-quarter revenue of $3.53 billion, net income of $942 million and earnings per share of 78 cents.  Earnings per share included 14 cents from the combination of the gain on the sale of a product line and a tax benefit that was primarily associated with the reinstatement of the federal R&D tax credit.
Our strong financial results for the fourth quarter reinforce our view that the inventory-driven downturn that started in the second half of 2010 is now mostly complete, said Rich Templeton, TI chairman, president and chief executive officer.  We used this short and shallow downturn to replenish our inventory, return product lead times to normal and ramp three new factories.  As markets start to grow again, we are well positioned with the products and manufacturing capacity that our customers need.
Templeton noted that the fourth quarter capped an important year in TIs transformation.  Strong revenue growth of 34 percent last year was led by our core businesses of Analog, Embedded Processing and the part of our Wireless segment that is focused on smartphones and tablets.  Each of these core businesses grew more than 40 percent and gained significant market share.  Success in these businesses let us again return cash to shareholders by repurchasing $2.5 billion of TI stock and paying dividends of nearly $600 million.
As we enter 2011, Analog and Embedded Processing technologies are becoming even more pervasive in the electronics of everyday life.  They are critical for the small form factors and long battery lives in tablets and smartphones, the safety and intelligence features in automobiles, and the reliability and energy-saving features of the smart grid.  With our focused R&D and expanded manufacturing capacity, were ready to deliver when and where our customers want.
4Q10 financial summary
Amounts are in millions of dollars, except per-share amounts.
 
 
TIs operating profit included $144 million from the gain on the sale of a product line.  Net income also included a $78 million tax benefit, which was primarily associated with the reinstatement of the federal R&D tax credit that was retroactive to the beginning of 2010.
In addition, operating profit increased from a year ago due to higher gross profit from higher revenue.  Compared with the prior quarter, operating profit was about even as lower gross profit, which resulted from lower revenue, offset the gain on sale and lower operating expenses.
4Q10 segment results
 
 
Note:  4Q09 has been restated to reflect the 1Q10 transfer of a low-power wireless product line from the Analog segment to the Wireless segment.  For 2009, revenue from this product line was $68 million, and it operated at a loss of $17 million.
  
Analog:
(includes high-volume analog & logic, high-performance analog and power management products)
  
Embedded Processing:
(includes digital signal processor and microcontroller catalog products that are sold across a wide variety of markets, as well as application-specific products that are used in communications infrastructure and automotive electronics)
  
Wireless:
(includes
connectivity products, OMAP applications processors and baseband products)
Other:  
(includes
DLP
products, custom ASIC products, calculators and royalties, as well as products sold under transitional supply agreements associated with recently acquired factories)
Restructuring charges were as follows:
 
 
4Q10 additional financial information
 
Year 2010 financial summary
 
 
TIs operating profit increased in 2010 due to higher gross profit from higher revenue.
 
 
Year 2010 segment results
 
 
Restructuring charges negatively impacted each segments operating profit as follows:
 
2010 additional financial information
Outlook
For the first quarter of 2011, TI expects:
TI will update its first-quarter outlook on March 8, 2011.
For the full year of 2011, TI expects approximately the following:
 
 
 
 
 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
As required by accounting rule ASC 260, net income allocated to unvested restricted stock units (RSUs) on which we pay dividend equivalents is excluded from the calculation of EPS.  The amount excluded from earnings per common share was $14 million, $7 million and $13 million for the quarters ending December 31, 2010, December 31, 2009, and September 30, 2010; and $44 million and $14 million for years ending December 31, 2010, and December 31, 2009, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
Certain amounts in prior periods' financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of TI's most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments (NYSE: TXN) helps customers solve problems and develop new electronics that make the world smarter, healthier, safer, greener and more fun.  A global semiconductor company, TI innovates through design, sales and manufacturing operations in more than 30 countries.  For more information, go to .
www.ti.com
TI trademarks:
OMAP
DLP
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 


