FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20111024163602.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Registrants news release dated October 24, 2011, regarding its third-quarter 2011 results of operations and financial condition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
ITEM 9.01.  Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussions in Items 1A of TIs most recent Form 10-K and of TIs Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
DALLAS (Oct. 24, 2011)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today announced third-quarter revenue of $3.47 billion, net income of $601 million and earnings per share of 51 cents.  EPS includes 9 cents in charges associated with the companys acquisition of National Semiconductor.
The highlight of the third quarter was the completion of the purchase of National Semiconductor.  We welcome the people of National to TI, and together were already taking our combined portfolio of almost 45,000 Analog products to customers all over the world, said Rich Templeton, chairman, president and chief executive officer.
Our revenue for the third quarter was higher than we expected though, overall, the quarter was below the seasonal average.  We expect the same in the fourth quarter as economic uncertainty continues to weigh on demand in almost every major market segment in which we operate.  We are well prepared to continue to gain share in our core businesses, no matter the economic conditions.
 
3Q11 financial summary
Amounts are in millions of dollars, except per-share amounts.
 
TI closed its acquisition of National Semiconductor on September 23, 2011, and from that date began to consolidate the results of the acquired operations into TIs Analog segment under the name Silicon Valley Analog.  Silicon Valley Analog revenue for that limited time was $18 million and operating profit was $2 million.
Acquisition-related charges of $154 million are included in the Other segments results.  As required by the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations, these charges include $7 million in cost of revenue attributable to the fair value write-up of acquired inventory that was sold after the date of acquisition.  The remainder, $147 million, includes restructuring costs, transaction costs, retention bonuses and amortization of intangibles.  In addition, there was a $10 million discrete tax charge.
TIs third-quarter 2011 gross profit and operating profit were negatively impacted by costs associated with lower levels of factory utilization in the quarter as the company lowered production in response to weaker demand, as well as charges for inventory obsolescence on certain custom programs.  These were partially offset by a net benefit resulting from proceeds from ongoing insurance claims associated with the March earthquake in Japan.
Operating profit declined from a year ago primarily due to lower gross profit, as well as acquisition costs.  Compared with the prior quarter, operating profit was lower due to acquisition costs, which were partially offset by lower operating expenses.
3Q11 segment results
 
*  Includes total acquisition-related costs of $154 million in the third quarter of 2011 and $13 million in the second quarter of 2011.  Also includes a net benefit from ongoing insurance claims associated with the earthquake in Japan of $23 million in the third quarter of 2011 and a net cost of $50 million in the second quarter of 2011.
  
Analog:
(includes High Volume Analog & Logic, High Performance Analog, Power Management and Silicon Valley Analog)
  
Embedded Processing:
(includes digital signal processor and microcontroller catalog products that are sold across a wide variety of markets as well as application-specific products that are used in communications infrastructure and automotive electronics)
  
Wireless:
(includes
connectivity products, OMAP applications processors and baseband products)
Other:  
(includes
DLP
products, custom ASIC products, calculators and royalties as well as products sold under transitional supply agreements associated with recently acquired factories)
3Q11 additional financial information
Outlook
For the fourth quarter of 2011, TI expects:
EPS will be negatively impacted by about 15 cents from acquisition-related costs in the fourth quarter.  These will include about $160 million of acquisition costs and, additionally, about $100 million included in cost of revenue.
TI will update its fourth-quarter outlook on December 8, 2011.
For the full year of 2011, TI expects approximately the following:
 
 
 
 
As required by accounting rule ASC 260, net income allocated to unvested restricted stock units (RSUs), on which we pay dividend equivalents, is excluded from the calculation of EPS.  The amount excluded from earnings per common share was $10 million, $13 million and $10 million for the quarters ending Sept. 30, 2011, Sept. 30, 2010 and June 30, 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain amounts in prior periods financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of TIs most recent Form 10-K and of TIs Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011.  The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments semiconductor innovations help 80,000 customers unlock the possibilities of the world as it could be  smarter, safer, greener, healthier and more fun.  Our commitment to building a better future is ingrained in everything we do  from the responsible manufacturing of our semiconductors, to caring for our employees, to giving back inside our communities.  This is just the beginning of our story.  Learn more at .
www.ti.com
TI trademarks:
OMAP
DLP
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 


