FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20110427152436.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.07.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
At the annual meeting of stockholders held on April 21, 2011, the stockholders elected TIs Board of Directors and voted upon three Board proposals contained within our Proxy Statement dated March 7, 2011.
The Board nominees were elected with the following vote:
The stockholders voted on the following proposals and cast their votes as described below:
 
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
TI specifically notes that circumstances arising out of the recent earthquakes and tsunami in Japan, including disruptions and increased costs of TIs production, disruptions in our supply chain (including utilities) and reduced or delayed demand from customers, could cause actual results to differ from the expectations of TI or its management. 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of TIs most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


