FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20110725164405.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Registrants news release dated July 25, 2011, regarding its second-quarter 2011 results of operations and financial condition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of TIs most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
DALLAS (July 25, 2011)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today announced second-quarter revenue of $3.46 billion, net income of $672 million and earnings per share of 56 cents.
We are pleased with the continued success of the TI portfolio in Analog and Embedded Processing.  Sequential revenue growth was driven by Embedded Processing up 12 percent and Analog up 3 percent, and we believe we again gained market share in both segments, said Rich Templeton, TIs chairman, president and chief executive officer.  In the quarter, we also resumed production ahead of schedule at our Japan factories that were damaged in the earthquake, thanks to excellent work by our teams on the ground.
We expect growth in the third quarter, but because of mixed macroeconomic and market signals we are prepared for a broader-than-normal range of growth possibilities.  We note that production at some computing and consumer manufacturers appears lukewarm even though were heading into the back-to-school and holiday seasons.  At the same time, Asian distributor resales have been strong, demand from our Japanese customers is increasing and our backlog increased in the second quarter.  Weve planned for modest sequential growth in the third quarter, yet are prepared to support higher demand if it materializes.
TIs pending acquisition of National Semiconductor has cleared all antitrust reviews with the exception of China, which is underway.  The company continues to expect the transaction to close before the end of the year.
We look forward to welcoming the people of National Semiconductor and to expanding the portfolio of unique products we can offer our Analog customers, Templeton concluded.
2Q11 financial summary
Amounts are in millions of dollars, except per-share amounts.
 
TIs operating profit was negatively impacted by about $50 million due to costs associated with the March earthquake in Japan.  These costs were net of proceeds from ongoing insurance claims and were included in cost of revenue in the companys Other segment.  Costs of $13 million associated with TIs pending acquisition of National Semiconductor also were included in the Other segment.
Operating profit declined from a year ago primarily due to lower gross profit, which declined as a result of the earthquake-related costs, lower factory utilization and lower revenue.  Compared with the prior quarter, operating profit was about even as profit from higher revenue was offset by lower factory utilization, higher earthquake-related costs and higher operating expenses.
 
2Q11 segment results
 
 
* Includes net costs from the earthquake in Japan of about $50 million in the second quarter of 2011 and about $30 million in the first quarter of 2011.  Also, includes acquisition-related costs of $13 million in the second quarter of 2011 and $2 million in the first quarter of 2011.
  
Analog:
(includes high-volume analog & logic, high-performance analog and power management products)
  
Embedded Processing:
(includes digital signal processor and microcontroller catalog products that are sold across a wide variety of markets, as well as application-specific products that are used in communications infrastructure and automotive electronics)
  
Wireless:
(includes
connectivity products, OMAP applications processors and baseband products)
Other:  
(includes
DLP
products, custom ASIC products, calculators and royalties, as well as products sold under transitional supply agreements associated with recently acquired factories)
2Q11 additional financial information
 
 
Outlook
For the third quarter of 2011, TI expects:
TI will update its third-quarter outlook on September 8, 2011.
For the full year of 2011, TI expects approximately the following:
 
 
 
As required by accounting rule ASC 260, net income allocated to unvested restricted stock units (RSUs) on which we pay dividend equivalents is excluded from the calculation of EPS.  The amount excluded from earnings per common share was $10 million, $11 million and $10 million for the quarters ending June 30, 2011, June 30, 2010 and March 31, 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain amounts in prior periods' financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of TIs most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments semiconductor innovations help 80,000 customers unlock the possibilities of the world as it could be  smarter, safer, greener, healthier and more fun.  Our commitment to building a better future is ingrained in everything we do  from the responsible manufacturing of our semiconductors, to caring for our employees, to giving back inside our communities.  This is just the beginning of our story.  Learn more at .
www.ti.com
 
TI trademarks:
OMAP
DLP
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


