FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20110418164029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Registrants news release dated April 18, 2011, regarding its first-quarter 2011 results of operations and financial condition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
TI specifically notes that circumstances arising out of the recent earthquakes and tsunami in Japan, including disruptions and increased costs of TIs production, disruptions in our supply chain (including utilities) and reduced or delayed demand from customers, could cause actual results to differ from the expectations of TI or its management. 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of TIs most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
DALLAS (April 18, 2011)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today announced first-quarter revenue of $3.39 billion, net income of $666 million and earnings per share of 55 cents.
2011 started strong, with customer demand in January and February tracking our expectations for a first quarter of above-seasonal growth, said Rich Templeton, TI chairman, president and chief executive officer.  But the Japan earthquake thats taken such a heartbreaking human toll in the country also disrupted local demand starting in mid-March and impaired operations at two of our factories there.  This impact and substantially weaker demand for Wireless baseband chips resulted in revenue that was below the middle of our expected range.  The lower revenue combined with expenses resulting from the earthquake affected earnings per share.  New orders, however, were strong through the quarter, indicative of the underlying strength in our markets.
Recovery of our operations in Japan is progressing well.  One of our factories will soon be resuming full production, and the other has restarted initial processing of wafers and is on schedule for full loadings in mid-July.  Nonetheless, many of our Japanese customers remain in the early stages of reopening their own factories, and we and our customers face potential supply chain disruptions.  We expect growth in the second quarter, though it will be pressured by the situation in Japan.  Provided consumer and enterprise demand remain strong, we expect a good second half of the year.
 
1Q11 financial summary
Amounts are in millions of dollars, except per-share amounts.
 
TIs operating profit was negatively impacted by about $30 million for costs resulting from the earthquake.  These costs were recorded in the companys Other segment.  TIs earnings per share were negatively impacted by about 2 cents by these costs.
Operating profit declined from a year ago due to higher operating expenses.  Compared with the prior quarter, operating profit was lower primarily due to a $144 million gain on the sale of a product line in the prior quarter and lower gross profit, which resulted from lower revenue.
Net income in the prior quarter also included a $78 million tax benefit, which was primarily associated with the reinstatement of the federal R&D tax credit that was retroactive to the beginning of 2010.
 
1Q11 segment results
 
  
Analog:
(includes high-volume analog & logic, high-performance analog and power management products)
  
Embedded Processing:
(includes digital signal processor and microcontroller catalog products that are sold across a wide variety of markets, as well as application-specific products that are used in communications infrastructure and automotive electronics)
  
Wireless:
(includes
connectivity products, OMAP applications processors and baseband products)
Other:  
(includes
DLP
products, custom ASIC products, calculators and royalties, as well as products sold under transitional supply agreements associated with recently acquired factories)
 
1Q11 additional financial information
Outlook
For the second quarter of 2011, TI expects:
This estimate includes a negative impact of about 5 cents for costs resulting from the earthquake and its aftermath in Japan.
TI will update its second-quarter outlook on June 8, 2011.
For the full year of 2011, TI expects approximately the following:
 
 
 
 
As required by accounting rule ASC 260, net income allocated to unvested restricted stock units (RSUs) on which we pay dividend equivalents is excluded from the calculation of EPS.  The amount excluded from earnings per common share was $10 million, $8 million and $14 million for the quarters ending March 31, 2011, March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain amounts in prior periods financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
TI specifically notes that circumstances arising out of the recent earthquakes and tsunami in Japan, including disruptions and increased costs of TIs production, disruptions in our supply chain (including utilities) and reduced or delayed demand from customers, could cause actual results to differ from the expectations of TI or its management. 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of TIs most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments semiconductor innovations help 80,000 customers unlock the possibilities of the world as it could be  smarter, safer, greener, healthier and more fun.  Our commitment to building a better future is ingrained in everything we do  from the responsible manufacturing of our semiconductors, to caring for our employees, to giving back inside our communities.  This is just the beginning of our story.  Learn more at .
www.ti.com
TI trademarks:
OMAP
DLP
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


