FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20110314170721.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01.  Other Events
The Registrants news release dated March 14, 2011, regarding the March 11, 2011, earthquake in Japan attached hereto as Exhibit 99 is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of TIs most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
DALLAS, March 14, 2011  After a preliminary assessment, TI today said its manufacturing site in Miho, Japan, about 40 miles northwest of Tokyo, suffered substantial damage during last Fridays 8.9 magnitude earthquake.
The company estimates it will reinstate production in stages, beginning with several lines in May and returning the factory to full production in mid-July, which translates to full shipment capability in September.   This schedule could be delayed if the regions power grid is unstable or if further complications prevent the re-start of equipment.
TI is moving quickly to shift production to other fabs and so far has identified alternate manufacturing sites for about 60 percent of Mihos wafer production.  Work is underway to increase this percentage by moving the production of additional products.
Specific damage at Miho includes the following:
Recovery began in earnest over the weekend, with teams from Miho, Hiji, Dallas and Malaysia on the ground, and additional teams en route.
The Miho fab produced about 10 percent of TIs output as measured by revenue in 2010, of which more than a third was DLP and the remainder of which was Analog.  TI expects to incur previously unexpected expenses in the first and second quarters for cost of recovery.  In addition, the company expects some loss of revenue in the first quarter and more lost revenue in the second quarter.  Multiple factors will affect revenue loss, including TIs ability to move production to other factories, existing inventory from which to meet customers needs, the level of demand from customers taking delivery of products in Japan, and the ability to incrementally increase production each month at Miho.  TI expects to describe financial impact in detail at the time of its first-quarter earnings report on April 18.
TIs fab in Aizu-wakamatsu, about 150 miles north of Tokyo, also was damaged in the earthquake, though equipment there already is being re-started and full production is estimated by mid-April, assuming a stable power supply.  The companys third fab in Hiji, about 500 miles south of Tokyo, was undamaged and is currently running at normal capacity.
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of TIs most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments semiconductor innovations help 80,000 customers unlock the possibilities of the world as it could be  smarter, safer, greener, healthier and more fun.  Our commitment to building a better future is ingrained in everything we do  from the responsible manufacturing of our semiconductors, to caring for our employees, to giving back inside our communities.  This is just the beginning of our story.  Learn more at .
www.ti.com


