FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20121210164353.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure
The Registrant's news release dated December 10, 2012, regarding the Registrant's outlook for the fourth quarter of 2012 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
 
ITEM 9.01.  Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
DALLAS (Dec. 10, 2012)  In a scheduled update to its business outlook for the fourth quarter of 2012, Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NASDAQ: TXN) today narrowed its expected ranges for revenue and earnings per share (EPS).
The company currently expects its financial results to be within the following ranges:
The company will hold a conference call at 4 p.m. Central time today to discuss this update.  This conference call will be available live at .  TIs original fourth-quarter outlook was published in the companys third-quarter 2012 earnings release on October 22, available at .  TI's fourth quarter ends on December 31.
www.ti.com/ir
www.ti.com/ir
 
Safe Harbor Statement
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "foresees," "forecasts," "estimates" or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of TI's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012.  The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments semiconductor innovations help 90,000 customers unlock the possibilities of the world as it could be  smarter, safer, greener, healthier and more fun.  Our commitment to building a better future is ingrained in everything we do  from the responsible manufacturing of our semiconductors, to caring for our employees, to giving back inside our communities.  This is just the beginning of our story.  Learn more at .
www.ti.com


