FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20120423164206.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Registrants news release dated April 23, 2012, regarding its first-quarter 2012 results of operations and financial condition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of TIs most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
DALLAS (April 23, 2012)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NASDAQ: TXN) today announced first-quarter revenue of $3.12 billion, net income of $265 million and earnings per share of 22 cents.  EPS includes 10 cents of charges associated with the companys acquisition of National Semiconductor and restructuring.
 
As we expected, our business cycle bottomed in the first quarter, and early signs of growth began to emerge, said Rich Templeton, TIs chairman, president and CEO.  Orders were up 13 percent, and backlog is growing again.  Particularly encouraging is the breadth of increased orders across geographical regions and markets, including the industrial sector.
 
Sales in our Analog segment were about level with the prior quarter.  We continue to make progress with Silicon Valley Analog, formerly National Semiconductor, as this product line gains traction with customers and holds a strong position in the important industrial market.  Sales in Embedded Processing were up 7 percent led by growth in the automotive and communications infrastructure markets.  Sales in our Wireless segment declined sharply as we entered the final phase of our exit from baseband products, which were less than 3 percent of total sales in the quarter.  We are expanding the reach of our Wireless segment into multiple markets and experiencing strong diversity in our design-ins.
Were poised for growth and share gains as markets rebound.  Our product portfolio is strong, and our design position with customers is excellent.  Our inventory is well-staged, and production in our factories is ramping.  Our teams are confident and hungry, and we expect 2012 to be a good year for growth.
1Q12 financial summary
Amounts are in millions of dollars, except per-share amounts.
 
Total acquisition-related charges associated with TIs September 2011 acquisition of National Semiconductor are $174 million in the first quarter.  These charges include $21 million in cost of revenue associated with the contract termination of a distributor.  The remainder, $153 million, includes amortization of intangibles, retention bonuses and other items.  Results also include $10 million of restructuring charges associated with the planned closings of two older factories announced in January 2012.
Revenue in the quarter includes insurance proceeds of about $65 million related to interruption of TIs business operations as a result of the 2011 Japan earthquake.
Compared with a year ago, lower gross profit in the quarter primarily reflects lower revenue.  Compared with the fourth quarter, lower gross profit reflects lower revenue, which was partially offset by lower charges to cost of revenue related to the National acquisition and an increase in insurance proceeds.
Operating profit declined from a year ago primarily due to lower gross profit, total acquisition-related charges and higher operating expenses due to the inclusion of Silicon Valley Analog.  Compared with the prior quarter, operating profit was higher primarily due to lower restructuring charges and lower total acquisition-related charges.
1Q12 segment results
*  Includes total acquisition-related charges of $174 million and restructuring charges of $10 million in the first quarter of 2012, total acquisition-related charges of $256 million and restructuring charges of $112 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 and total acquisition-related charges of $2 million in the first quarter of 2011.
 
 
  
Analog:
(includes High Volume Analog & Logic, Power Management, High Performance Analog and Silicon Valley Analog)
  
Embedded Processing:
(includes digital signal processor and microcontroller catalog products that are sold across a wide variety of markets as well as application-specific products that are used in communications infrastructure and automotive electronics)
  
Wireless:
(includes
OMAP
TM
applications processors, connectivity products and baseband products)
Other:  
(includes
DLP
products, custom ASIC products, calculators and royalties as well as products sold under transitional supply agreements associated with recently acquired factories)
1Q12 additional financial information
Outlook
For the second quarter of 2012, TI expects:
The second quarters results will be negatively affected by about $100 million of acquisition charges and about $10 million of restructuring charges.  Combined, these items will impact EPS by about 6 cents.
TI will update its second-quarter outlook on June 11, 2012.
For the full year of 2012, TI continues to expect approximately the following:
The tax rate estimate is based on current tax law and does not assume reinstatement of the federal R&D tax credit, which expired at the end of 2011.
 
 
 
As required by accounting rule ASC 260, net income allocated to unvested restricted stock units (RSUs), on which we pay dividend equivalents, is excluded from the calculation of EPS.  The amount excluded is $4 million, $10 million and $5 million for the quarters ending March 31, 2012, March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain amounts in prior periods financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of TIs most recent Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments semiconductor innovations help 90,000 customers unlock the possibilities of the world as it could be  smarter, safer, greener, healthier and more fun.  Our commitment to building a better future is ingrained in everything we do  from the responsible manufacturing of our semiconductors, to caring for our employees, to giving back inside our communities.  This is just the beginning of our story.  Learn more at .
www.ti.com
TI trademarks:
OMAP
DLP
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


