FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20120723164042.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Registrants news release dated July 23, 2012, regarding its second-quarter 2012 results of operations and financial condition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of TIs Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99
DALLAS (July 23, 2012)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NASDAQ: TXN) today announced second-quarter revenue of $3.34 billion, net income of $446 million and earnings per share of 38 cents.  EPS includes 6 cents of charges associated with the companys September 2011 acquisition of National Semiconductor and restructuring.
TI revenue in the second quarter was about as we had expected, said Rich Templeton, TIs chairman, president and CEO.  Our Analog and Embedded Processing segments grew sequentially, while our Wireless segment declined.
Although we believe customers and distributors have low inventory levels, the global economic environment is causing both to become increasingly cautious in placing new orders.  Our backlog grew last quarter but orders slowed in the month of June and our backlog coverage for September is lower than normal.  As a result of this increased uncertainty, we currently estimate that our revenue in the third quarter will be about even with last quarter and below our seasonal average growth rate.  If customer demand increases as the quarter progresses, we are ready to support higher shipments with short product lead times, a strong inventory position and available manufacturing capacity.
 
In the meantime, we remain focused on strengthening our market positions in Analog and Embedded Processing.  These areas are complementary and benefit from TIs extensive and expanding relationships with customers around the world.  As we continue to broaden our portfolio of leadership products, especially our standard catalog products, we enhance our ability to serve these customers.
 
2Q12 financial summary
Amounts are in millions of dollars, except per-share amounts.
Acquisition charges associated with TIs acquisition of National Semiconductor (now referred to as Silicon Valley Analog in TIs Analog segment) are $104 million in the second quarter and include amortization of intangibles, retention bonuses and other items.  Results also include $13 million of restructuring charges associated with the planned closings of two older factories announced in January 2012.
Compared with a year ago, lower gross profit in the quarter primarily reflects lower revenue and the associated costs from low levels of factory utilization.  Compared with the first quarter, higher gross profit reflects higher revenue, which more than offset lower insurance proceeds related to the March 2011 earthquake in Japan.
Operating profit declined from a year ago due about equally to higher acquisition and restructuring charges, lower gross profit and higher operating expenses.  The increase in operating expenses was due to the inclusion of Silicon Valley Analog.  Compared with the prior quarter, operating profit increased primarily due to higher gross profit.  Also contributing to this increase were lower acquisition charges as well as lower operating expenses.
2Q12 segment results
 
 
*  Includes acquisition-related and restructuring charges.
 
 
  
Analog:
(includes High Volume Analog & Logic, Power Management, High Performance Analog and Silicon Valley Analog)
  
Embedded Processing:
(includes digital signal processor and microcontroller catalog products that are sold across a wide variety of markets as well as application-specific products that are used in communications infrastructure and automotive electronics)
  
Wireless:
(includes
OMAP
TM
applications processors, connectivity products and baseband products)
Other:  
(includes
DLP
products, custom ASIC products, calculators and royalties)
2Q12 additional financial information
Outlook
For the third quarter of 2012, TI expects:
 
The third quarters EPS will be negatively affected by about 7 cents from acquisition and restructuring charges.
TI will update its third-quarter outlook on September 11, 2012.
For the full year of 2012, TI expects approximately the following:
The tax rate estimate is based on current tax law and does not assume reinstatement of the federal R&D tax credit, which expired at the end of 2011.
As required by accounting rule ASC 260, net income allocated to unvested restricted stock units (RSUs), on which we pay dividend equivalents, is excluded from the calculation of EPS.  The amount excluded is $8 million, $10 million and $4 million for the quarters ending June 30, 2012, June 30, 2011, and March 31, 2012, respectively.
 
 
 
 
Certain amounts in prior periods' financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of TIs Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012.  The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments semiconductor innovations help 90,000 customers unlock the possibilities of the world as it could be  smarter, safer, greener, healthier and more fun.  Our commitment to building a better future is ingrained in everything we do  from the responsible manufacturing of our semiconductors, to caring for our employees, to giving back inside our communities.  This is just the beginning of our story.  Learn more at .
www.ti.com
TI trademarks:
OMAP
DLP
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


