FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20121022164046.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Registrants news release dated October 22, 2012, regarding its third-quarter 2012 results of operations and financial condition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
 
ITEM 9.01  Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
DALLAS (Oct. 22, 2012)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NASDAQ: TXN) today announced third-quarter revenue of $3.39 billion, net income of $784 million and earnings per share of 67 cents.  EPS includes 7 cents of charges associated with the company's acquisition of National Semiconductor and restructuring that were comprehended in TI's outlook provided in September.  EPS also includes a benefit of 22 cents for changes in taxes and a Japanese pension program that were not included in the company's outlook.
"TI revenue grew sequentially and operations were well executed even though the economy and semiconductor market remained weak and likely will get weaker in the fourth quarter," said Rich Templeton, TI's chairman, president and CEO.  "Our core businesses of Analog and Embedded Processing each grew revenue by 2 percent.  Our operations were disciplined, with expenses and inventory levels both down, and our core businesses grew profit faster than revenue."
Regarding TI's business model, which is focused on Analog and Embedded Processing, Templeton said, "These two core businesses now comprise 70 percent of our revenue.  The importance of this strategy shows in the strong cash that we generate even in weak markets and in our ability to return that cash to shareholders.  In the third quarter, our free cash flow exceeded $1 billion, and we returned more than 75 percent of it through dividends and share repurchases.  Our confidence in the long-term sustainability of our business model drove the dividend increase of 24 percent that we announced in the quarter."  
3Q12 financial summary
Amounts are in millions of dollars, except per-share amounts.
 
Acquisition charges associated with TI's acquisition of National Semiconductor are $106 million in the third quarter and include amortization of intangibles, retention bonuses and other items.  Included in Restructuring charges/other is a net benefit of $144 million associated with the Japan pension program change.  Partially offsetting this benefit are expenses of $22 million associated with the previously announced planned closure or potential sale of several older factories.
Compared with a year ago, gross profit was about even as the effect of lower revenue and the costs associated with lower levels of factory utilization were offset by profit from higher business interruption insurance proceeds related to the March 2011 earthquake in Japan, as well as lower manufacturing costs.  Compared with the prior quarter, higher gross profit primarily reflects higher revenue, specifically business interruption insurance proceeds.  Business interruption insurance proceeds in the quarter were $60 million.
Operating profit increased from a year ago as the benefit from the Japan pension program change and lower acquisition charges more than offset higher operating expenses that resulted primarily from the inclusion of a full quarter of Silicon Valley Analog.  Compared with the second quarter, operating profit was higher primarily due to the Japan pension program change, as well as higher gross profit and lower operating expenses.
Results include a $90 million discrete tax benefit, which is primarily due to additional U.S. tax benefits for manufacturing related to the years 2007 through 2011, and a $67 million benefit from the cumulative effect of the company's lowering its estimated effective tax rate for 2012.  The lower tax rate estimate was primarily due to a revised estimate of the impact of non-U.S. effective tax rates.
3Q12 segment results
*  Includes Acquisition charges and Restructuring charges/other.
 
 
  
Analog:
(includes High Volume Analog & Logic, Power Management, High Performance Analog and Silicon Valley Analog)
  
Embedded Processing:
(includes digital signal processor and microcontroller catalog products that are sold across a wide variety of markets as well as application-specific products that are used in communications infrastructure and automotive electronics)
  
Wireless:
(includes
OMAP
TM
applications processors, connectivity products and baseband products)
Other:  
(includes
DLP
products, custom ASIC products, calculators and royalties)
3Q12 additional financial information
Outlook
For the fourth quarter of 2012, TI expects:
The fourth quarter's EPS will be negatively affected by about 6 cents from acquisition and restructuring charges.
TI will update its fourth-quarter outlook on December 10, 2012.
For the full year of 2012, TI expects approximately the following:
The tax rate estimate is based on current law and does not assume reinstatement of the federal R&D tax credit, which expired at the end of 2011.
 
 
 
 
As required by accounting rule ASC 260, net income allocated to unvested restricted stock units (RSUs), on which we pay dividend equivalents, is excluded from the calculation of EPS.  The amount excluded is $14 million, $10 million and $8 million for the quarters ending Sept. 30, 2012, Sept. 30, 2011, and June 30, 2012, respectively.
 
 
 
 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
 
 
 
 
Certain amounts in prior periods' financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Measure  Free Cash Flow
The term "free cash flow" is a non-GAAP measure to provide investors additional insight into Cash flow from operations less capital expenditures.  The table below provides a reconciliation of the non-GAAP item.
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "foresees," "forecasts," "estimates" or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TI's business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of TIs Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012.  The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments semiconductor innovations help 90,000 customers unlock the possibilities of the world as it could be  smarter, safer, greener, healthier and more fun.  Our commitment to building a better future is ingrained in everything we do  from the responsible manufacturing of our semiconductors, to caring for our employees, to giving back inside our communities.  This is just the beginning of our story.  Learn more at .
www.ti.com
TI trademarks:
OMAP
DLP
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


