FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20120123163642.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Registrants news release dated January 23, 2012, regarding the Registrants fourth quarter and 2011 results of operations and financial condition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 2.05.  Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
The Registrant today announced plans to close two older semiconductor manufacturing facilities in Hiji, Japan, and Houston, Texas, over the next 18 months.  The plan will reduce employment by about 1,000, or 3%.  Total restructuring charges for these activities are estimated to be about $215 million.  These estimated charges include about $135 million associated with severance and related benefits, about $30 million for accelerated depreciation of plant assets and about $50 million for other costs to exit contracts or dispose of assets.  The Registrant accrued $112 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 based on Accounting Standards Codification (Topic 712), The remainder of the charges will be accrued over the next seven quarters.
Compensation  Nonretirement Postemployement Benefits.  
 
ITEM 9.01.  Exhibits
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
 
This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussions in Item 1A of TIs most recent Form 10-K, Item 1A of TIs Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011, and Item 1A of TIs Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
DALLAS (Jan. 23, 2012)  Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NASDAQ: TXN) today announced fourth-quarter revenue of $3.42 billion, net income of $298 million and earnings per share of 25 cents.  EPS includes 16 cents in charges associated with the companys acquisition of National Semiconductor and 7 cents in charges associated with the closure of two older manufacturing facilities (details below).
Revenue in the fourth quarter was higher than expected across all our major product lines, reinforcing our belief that were at the bottom of this downturn.  Im pleased to say that despite the downturn and the lower factory utilization that came with it, cash flow from operations was strong and well above levels as compared with similar points in prior downturns.  Our strategic focus on our core businesses and efficient investment in capacity are key to our strong generation of cash, said Rich Templeton, chairman, president and chief executive officer.  As we move into 2012, we enter the final phase of our planned exit from the baseband market, and thus further tighten our focus on Analog, Embedded Processing and Wireless.
In addition to financial results, TI also announced plans to close two older semiconductor manufacturing facilities in Hiji, Japan, and Houston, Texas, over the course of the next 18 months.  Production from these sites will be moved to other more advanced TI facilities.  Combined, these factories supported about 4 percent of TIs revenue in 2011, and each employs about 500 people.  The total charge for these closures is estimated at about $215 million, of which $112 million was incurred in the fourth quarter and the remainder will occur over the next seven quarters.  Annual savings will be about $100 million once the transition is complete.  These sites have made strong, high-quality contributions over the 30-plus years each has operated, said Templeton.  They demonstrate the tremendous cash flow potential associated with analog products, where factory lives are literally measured in decades.  However, were now at the point where each of these sites requires significant upgrades, and it makes financial sense to shift production to larger, more advanced facilities.
4Q11 financial summary
Amounts are in millions of dollars, except per-share amounts.
 
TI closed its acquisition of National Semiconductor on September 23, 2011, and from that date began to consolidate the results of the acquired operations into TIs Analog segment under the name Silicon Valley Analog.  Total acquisition-related charges in the fourth quarter are $256 million.  As required by the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations, these charges include $103 million in cost of revenue attributable primarily to the fair value write-up of acquired inventory.  The remainder, $153 million, includes amortization of intangibles, retention bonuses and restructuring costs.
Results also include $112 million of restructuring charges associated with the planned facility closings announced today.
In addition to the impact from acquisition-related charges, TIs fourth-quarter 2011 gross profit was negatively impacted by costs associated with low levels of factory utilization in the quarter, as well as charges for Wireless baseband inventory.
Operating profit declined from a year ago primarily due to acquisition-related charges, lower gross profit and restructuring charges in the fourth quarter of 2011, as well as a gain on the sale of a product line in the year-ago quarter.  Compared with the prior quarter, operating profit was lower primarily due to higher total acquisition-related charges and restructuring charges, as well as lower gross profit.
TIs annual effective tax rate declined to 24 percent from the previously estimated 25 percent.  Results include a cumulative adjustment for this rate change, as well as a net discrete tax benefit of $11 million.
 
4Q11 segment results
 
*  Includes total acquisition-related charges of $256 million and restructuring charges of $112 million in the fourth quarter of 2011, total acquisition-related charges of $154 million in the third quarter of 2011 and a gain on the sale of a product line of $144 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
 
 
  
Analog:
(includes High Volume Analog & Logic, Power Management, High Performance Analog and Silicon Valley Analog)
  
Embedded Processing:
(includes digital signal processor and microcontroller catalog products that are sold across a wide variety of markets as well as application-specific products that are used in communications infrastructure and automotive electronics)
  
Wireless:
(includes
OMAP applications processors, connectivity products and baseband products)
Other:  
(includes
DLP
products, custom ASIC products, calculators and royalties as well as products sold under transitional supply agreements associated with recently acquired factories)
4Q11 additional financial information
Year 2011 financial summary
 
Results include total acquisition-related charges of $426 million in 2011 and a gain on the sale of a product line of $144 million in 2010.  Results also include restructuring charges of $112 million in 2011 compared with $33 million in 2010.
TIs operating profit declined in 2011 primarily due to lower gross profit and higher total acquisition-related charges, higher operating expenses that resulted primarily from the inclusion of Silicon Valley Analog, and a gain on the sale of a product line in 2010.  Gross profit was negatively impacted primarily by a combination of lower revenue, lower average levels of factory utilization, acquisition-related charges and inventory charges.
Year 2011 segment results
 
 
2011 additional financial information
Outlook
For the first quarter of 2012, TI expects:
Baseband revenue is expected to decline from $279 million in the fourth quarter to about $75 million in the first quarter, and range from $50 million to $100 million in each remaining quarter of 2012.  EPS will be negatively impacted by about 9 cents from $170 million of total acquisition-related charges that will include about $150 million of acquisition charges and, additionally, about $20 million included in cost of revenue.  Restructuring charges will negatively impact EPS by about 1 cent.
TI will update its first-quarter outlook on March 8, 2012.
For the full year of 2012, TI expects approximately the following:
The tax rate estimate is based on current tax law and does not assume reinstatement of the federal R&D tax credit, which expired at the end of 2011.
 
 
 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
As required by accounting rule ASC 260, net income allocated to unvested restricted stock units (RSUs), on which TI pays dividend equivalents, is excluded from the calculation of EPS.  The amount excluded from earnings per common share was $5 million, $14 million and $10 million for the quarters ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, and September 30, 2011, respectively; and $34 million and $44 million for years ended December 31, 2011, and December 31, 2010, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
* These balances have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect changes in estimates of fair value related to the acquisition of National Semiconductor.
 
 
 
 
Certain amounts in prior periods financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
Safe Harbor Statement
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of TIs most recent Form 10-K, Item 1A of TIs Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011, and Item 1A of TIs Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011.  The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments semiconductor innovations help 80,000 customers unlock the possibilities of the world as it could be  smarter, safer, greener, healthier and more fun.  Our commitment to building a better future is ingrained in everything we do  from the responsible manufacturing of our semiconductors, to caring for our employees, to giving back inside our communities.  This is just the beginning of our story.  Learn more at .
www.ti.com
TI trademarks:
OMAP
DLP
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


