FILE:TXN/TXN-8K-20120924124415.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01.  Other Events
The Registrants news release dated September 20, 2012, regarding a planned dividend increase attached hereto as Exhibit 99 is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of TIs Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012.  The forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this report, and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
      
DALLAS (Sept. 20, 2012) Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NASDAQ: TXN) today said it will raise its quarterly cash dividend 24 percent.  The new quarterly dividend will be $0.21 per share of common stock, resulting in annual dividend payments of $0.84 per common share.  The current quarterly dividend is $0.17 per share.
This dividend increase is a direct result of our strengthening portfolio and our lower capital needs, said Rich Templeton, TI chairman, president and chief executive officer.  As more of our revenue comes from Analog and Embedded Processing, our cash flow from operations continues to improve.  In addition, our opportune purchases of manufacturing capacity have positioned us well for growth while also allowing our capital spending levels to drop.  This means that we can return more cash to our shareholders.
The new quarterly cash dividend will be payable November 19, 2012, to stockholders of record on October 31, 2012, contingent upon formal declaration by the Board of Directors at its regular meeting in October.
This is the ninth consecutive year TI has increased its dividend, and it marks the fiftieth year the company has paid dividends to its shareholders on an uninterrupted basis.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This release includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates or other words or phrases of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TIs business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 
We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its management:
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of TIs Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012.  The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and TI undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About Texas Instruments
Texas Instruments semiconductor innovations help 90,000 customers unlock the possibilities of the world as it could be  smarter, safer, greener, healthier and more fun.  Our commitment to building a better future is ingrained in everything we do  from the responsible manufacturing of our semiconductors, to caring for our employees, to giving back inside our communities.  This is just the beginning of our story.  Learn more at .
www.ti.com


