Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Years ended December 31, 2002 2004 (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) FORWARD LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS Some of the statements contained in this annual report discuss future expectations and business strategies or include other forward looking information. Those statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements. The forward looking information is based on various factors and was derived using numerous assumptions. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements. OVERVIEW We are the largest source of funding, delivery and servicing support for education loans in the United States primarily through our participation in the FFELP. Our primary business is to originate, acquire and hold student loans, with the net interest income and gains on the sales of student loans in securitization being the primary source of our earnings. We also earn fees for pre default and post default receivables management services. We are now engaged in every phase of the student loan life cycle from originating and servicing student loans to default prevention and ultimately the collection on defaulted student loans. We also provide a wide range of financial services, processing capabilities and information technology to meet the needs of educational institutions, lenders, students and their families, and guarantee agencies. SLM Corporation, more commonly known as Sallie Mae, is a holding company that operates through a number of subsidiaries and references in this annual report to the Company refer to SLM Corporation and its subsidiaries. We have used both internal growth and strategic acquisitions to attain our leadership position in the education finance marketplace. We have the largest sales force in the student loan industry that delivers our product offerings on campuses. The core of our marketing strategy is to promote our on campus brands, which generate student loan originations through our Preferred Channel. Loans generated through our Preferred Channel are more profitable than loans acquired through our forward purchase commitments or the spot market since they are owned earlier in the student loans life and we generally incur lower costs on such loans. We have built brand leadership between the Sallie Mae name, the brands of our subsidiaries and those of our lender partners, such that we capture the volume of three of the top five originators of FFELP loans. These sales and marketing efforts are supported by the largest and most diversified servicing capabilities in the industry, providing an unmatched array of servicing capability to financial aid offices. In recent years we have diversified our business through the acquisition of several companies that provide default management and loan collections services, all of which are combined in our Debt Management Operations (DMO) business segment. Initially these acquisitions concentrated in the student loan industry, but through a 2004 acquisition we expanded our capabilities to include a full range of accounts receivable management services to a number of different industries. The DMO business segment has been expanding rapidly such that revenue grew 31 percent in 2004 and we now employ over 3,000 people in this segment. In December 2004, we completed the Wind Down of the GSE and are now a fully privatized company. We have defeased all remaining GSE debt obligations and dissolved the GSEs federal charter. The liquidity provided to the Company by the GSE has been replaced by non GSE financing, including securitizations originated by non GSE subsidiaries of SLM Corporation. This funding transformation was accomplished by increasing and diversifying our investor base over the last three years. We now have a number of sources of liquidity including the formation of our first asset backed commercial paper program ($5 billion in available borrowings) and our unsecured revolving credit facilities, which were increased from $3 billion to $5 billion in 2004. 23 See STUDENT LOAN MARKETING ASSOCIATION Privatization Act Completion of the GSE Wind Down for a more detailed discussion of the GSE Wind Down. On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, which is a revision of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. Generally, the approach in SFAS No. 123(R) is similar to the approach described in SFAS No. 123. However, SFAS No. 123(R) requires all share based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statement based on their fair values. Pro forma disclosure is no longer an alternative. The new standard will be effective for public entities (excluding small business issuers) in the first interim or annual reporting period beginning after June 15, 2005, irrespective of the entitys fiscal year. Early adoption is permitted in periods in which financial statements have not yet been issued. SFAS No. 123(R) allows for two transition alternatives for public companies: (a) modified prospective transition or (b) modified retrospective transition. We are still evaluating both methods, but have tentatively decided to apply the modified retrospective transition alternative for all periods presented and will recognize compensation cost in the amounts previously reported in the pro forma footnote disclosure under the provisions of SFAS No. 123. Had we adopted SFAS No. 123(R) in 2004, our diluted earnings per share would have been $.08 lower and the effect going forward should have a similar effect on diluted earnings per share. BUSINESS SEGMENTS We manage our business through two primary business segments: the Lending business segment and the DMO business segment. These businesses are considered reportable segments under SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, based on quantitative thresholds applied to the Companys financial statements. In addition, we provide other complementary products and services, including guarantor and student loan servicing through smaller business units that do not meet such thresholds and are aggregated in the Corporate and Other business segment for financial reporting purposes. Since our business segments operate in distinct business environments, the discussion herein of the results of our operations is primarily presented on a segment basis. The Lending business segment includes all discussion of income and related expenses associated with net interest margin, student loan spread and its components, securitization gains and the ongoing servicing and securitization income, derivative market value gains and losses, and other fees earned on our Managed portfolio of student loans. The DMO business segment reflects the fees earned and expenses incurred to operate our DMO business. Our Corporate and Other business segment includes our remaining fee businesses and other corporate expenses that do not pertain directly to the primary segments identified above. SFAS No. 131 requires public companies to report financial and descriptive information about their reportable operating segments. This is the first year that the Company has been required to present segment information in accordance with SFAS No. 131, and we have included this information for all periods presented in our financial statements as required by SEC rules. The segment information that follows in this MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) includes certain condensed financial information in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). In accordance with SFAS No. 131, in Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements, Segment Reporting, we present separate financial information about our operating segments that is used regularly by the chief operating decision makers in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing the operating results of the business. The financial information included in Note 18 reflects certain non GAAP performance measures, which we refer to as core cash measures. These core cash measures are discussed in greater detail below in ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES. Lending Business Segment In our Lending business segment, we originate and acquire federally guaranteed student loans, which are administered by the U.S. Department of Education (ED), and Private Education Loans, which are not 24 federally guaranteed. The majority of our Private Education Loans are made in conjunction with a FFELP Stafford loan and as a result are marketed through the same marketing channels as FFELP Stafford Loans. While FFELP student loans and Private Education Loans have different overall risk profiles due to the federal guarantee of the FFELP student loans, they share many of the same characteristics such as similar repayment terms, the same marketing channel and sales force, and are originated and serviced on the same platform. Finally, where possible, the borrower receives a single bill for both the federally guaranteed and privately underwritten loans. The earnings growth in our Lending business segment is a product of the growth in our Managed portfolio of student loans and the earning spread on those loans. In 2004, the Managed portfolio grew by 21 percent to $107 billion at December 31, 2004. As a result of receiving the Exceptional Performer (EP) Designation from ED, approximately 93 percent of our Managed FFELP student loans are 100 percent guaranteed by the federal government and as such represent high quality assets with very little credit risk. At December 31, 2004, our Managed FFELP student loan portfolio was $96.0 billion or 89 percent of our total Managed student loans. Trends in the Lending Business Segment The growth in our Lending business segment has been largely driven by the steady growth in the demand for post secondary education in the United States over the last decade. This growth is evident in the volume of loans we originated or acquired in 2004. We acquired or originated $29.9 billion of student loans in 2004, a 45 percent increase over the $20.7 billion in 2003. Of this, we originated $18.0 billion of student loans through our Preferred Channel, an increase of 18 percent over the $15.2 billion of student loans originated through our Preferred Channel in 2003. We also acquired $6.2 billion of student loans through two acquisitions. We expect the growth in the demand for post secondary education to continue in the future due to a number of factors. First, the college age population will continue to grow. ED predicts that the college age population will increase 10 percent by 2013. Second, we project an increase in non traditional students (those not attending college directly from high school) and adult education. Third, tuition costs have risen 36 percent for four year public institutions and 51 percent for four year private institutions on an inflation adjusted basis since the academic year (AY) 1993 1994 and are projected to continue to rise at a pace greater than inflation. Management believes that the twin factors of increasing demand for education coupled with rising tuition costs will drive growth in education financing well into the next decade. During 2004, we renegotiated our agreement with Bank One. Under the current agreement we will purchase all Bank One student loans originated on our platform through 2008. This volume represents the vast majority of loans originated under that brand name. However, we are no longer obligated to promote the Bank One brand on college campuses, allowing us to increase the marketing of the Sallie Mae family of brands as well as other lending partners. Over the past three years, we have seen a surge in Consolidation Loan activity as a result of historically low interest rates which has substantially changed the composition of our student loan portfolio. Consolidation Loans earn a lower yield than FFELP Stafford Loans due primarily to the 105 basis point Consolidation Loan Rebate Fee. This negative impact is somewhat mitigated by higher SAP spreads, the longer average life of Consolidation Loans and the greater potential to earn Floor Income. Since interest rates on Consolidation Loans are fixed to term for the borrower, older Consolidation Loans with higher borrower rates can earn Floor Income over an extended period of time. In 2004, substantially all Floor Income was earned on Consolidation Loans. Borrowers typically do not consolidate loans prior to repayment. During 2004, $10.7 billion of FFELP Stafford loans in our Managed loan portfolio consolidated either with us ($8.6 billion) or with other lenders ($2.1 billion). The net result of consolidation activity in 2004 was a portfolio gain of $504 million. Consolidation Loans now represent over 60 percent of our on balance sheet federally guaranteed student loan portfolio and over 50 percent of our Managed portfolio. FFELP loan limits have not been raised since 1992. See OTHER RELATED EVENTS AND INFORMATION Reauthorization and Budget Proposals for a description of proposals that would increase loan limits. To meet the increasing cost of higher education, students and parents have turned to 25 alternative sources of education financing. A large and growing source of this supplemental education financing is provided through campus based Private Education Loans, of which we are the largest provider. The Private Education Loan portfolio grew by 38 percent in 2004 to $11.5 billion and now represents 11 percent of our Managed student loan portfolio, up from 9 percent in 2003. Private Education Loans consist of two general types: those that meet the needs of borrowers of higher education schools and other Title IV eligible schools, and those that are used to meet the needs of students in alternative learning programs such as career training, distance learning and lifelong learning programs. Unlike FFELP loans, Private Education Loans are subject to the full credit risk of the borrower. We manage this additional risk through tested loan underwriting standards and a combination of higher interest rates and loan origination fees that compensate us for the higher risk. As a result, we earn higher spreads on Private Education Loans than on FFELP loans. Private Education Loans will continue to be an important driver of future earnings growth as the demand for post secondary education grows and costs increase much faster than increases in federal loan limits. We also originate lesser quantities of mortgage and consumer loans with the intent of immediately selling the majority of the mortgage loans. Mortgage and consumer loan originations and the mortgage loan portfolio we hold were 8 percent and 1 percent, respectively, of total loan originations and total loans outstanding as of and for the year ended December 31, 2004. Student Loan Spread An important performance measure closely monitored by management is the student loan spread. The student loan spread is the difference between the interest earned on the student loan assets and the interest paid on the debt funding those loans. A number of factors can affect the overall student loan spread such as: the mix of student loans in the portfolio, with Consolidation Loans having the lowest spread and Private Education Loans having the highest spread; the premiums paid and capitalized costs incurred to acquire student loans which negatively impact the spread through subsequent amortization; the type and level of borrower benefit programs; the level of Floor Income; and funding and hedging costs. The replacement of GSE debt with non GSE debt has increased our funding costs and, coupled with the rapid growth in Consolidation Loans, has put pressure on our student loan spread. We are actively managing these adverse effects by originating a higher percentage of student loans through our Preferred Channel and by increasing the percentage of Private Education Loans in our Managed portfolio. Absent changes to the spread through government legislation, see OTHER RELATED EVENTS AND INFORMATION Reauthorization and Budget Proposals, we expect the Managed student loan spread to remain close to the 1.80 percent earned in the fourth quarter of 2004. Funding and Interest Rate Risk We depend on the debt capital markets to support our business plan. We have developed diverse funding sources to ensure continued access to the capital markets now that we can no longer access GSE funding. Our biggest funding challenge going forward is to maintain cost effective liquidity to fund the growth in the Managed portfolio of student loans as well as to refinance previously securitized loans when consolidated back on balance sheet from our securitization trusts. At the same time, we must maintain earnings spreads and control interest rate risk to preserve earnings growth. Our main source of funding is student loan securitizations and we have built a highly liquid market for such financings, as evidenced by the $29.7 billion of student loans securitized in twelve term securitization transactions in 2004 and $30.1 billion in sixteen term securitization transactions in 2003. While securitizations provide the majority of our funding requirements, we also rely on unsecured debt obligations as a source of liquidity. In 2004, we issued $15 billion of SLM 26 Corporation, term, unsecured debt raising the total of such debt to $33.3 billion at December 31, 2004, a 64 percent increase over December 31, 2003. In addition, in 2004, we closed a $5 billion asset backed commercial paper program and increased our revolving credit facility from $3 billion to $5 billion. We rely heavily on derivative transactions to economically hedge our interest rate risk between our assets and liabilities. Derivatives allow us to efficiently match floating rate assets with floating rate debt and also better match the underlying indices of the variable rate assets and liabilities. Over the last three years, we have designed several new securitization structures to enable us to fund the longer average life of Consolidation Loans to terms. In certain Consolidation Loan securitization structures, we do not qualify for off balance sheet accounting treatment and the Consolidation Loans remain on our balance sheet. Even though we believe our derivatives are economic hedges, changes in interest rates can cause volatility in our earnings for the market value of our derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. Under SFAS No. 133, these changes in derivative market values are recorded through earnings with no consideration for the corresponding change in the fair value of the hedged item. As a result, our earnings are highly susceptible to changes in interest rates caused by these one sided marks to market. Changes in interest rates can also have a material effect on the amount of Floor Income earned in our student loan portfolio and the valuation of our Retained Interest asset. Our earnings can also be materially affected by changes in our estimate of the rate at which loans may prepay in our portfolios as measured by the Constant Prepayment Rate (CPR). The value of the Retained Interests on FFELP Stafford securitizations is particularly affected by the level of Consolidation Loan activity. We face a number of other challenges and risks that can materially affect our future results such as changes in: applicable laws and regulations, which may change the volume, average term, effective yields and refinancing options of student loans under the FFELP or provide advantages to competing FEELP and non FFELP loan providers; demand and competition for education financing; financing preferences of students and their families; borrower default rates on Private Education Loans; continued access to the capital markets for funding at favorable spreads particularly for our non federally insured Private Education Loan portfolio; and our operating execution and efficiencies, including errors, omissions, and effectiveness of internal control. Recent Developments Acquisitions in the Lending Business Segment We completed two acquisitions in the Lending business segment in 2004 and two acquisitions in 2003. We accounted for these transactions under the purchase method of accounting as defined in SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations, and allocated the purchase price to the fair market value of the assets acquired, including identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. Southwest Student Services Corporation On October 15, 2004, we completed our purchase of the outstanding stock of Southwest Student Services Corporation (Southwest), an originator, holder and servicer of student loans from the Helios Education Foundation for total consideration of approximately $533 million including cash of $525 million and restricted stock of $8 million. The transaction included Southwests $4.8 billion student loan portfolio (and the related funding), its Arizona based loan origination and servicing center and its sales and marketing operations. In addition to increasing our student loan portfolio, the purchase has expanded our loan origination capability and broadened our market reach. Southwest is among the top 30 originators of federal student loans, issuing approximately $300 million in FFELP Stafford and PLUS loans and $1.5 billion in Consolidation Loans 27 annually, and it is the nations ninth largest holder of federal student loans. Southwest provides student loans and related services nationally with a primary focus on colleges and universities in Arizona and Florida. Southwest employs nearly 300 individuals. Education Assistance Foundation and Student Loan Finance Association On December 14, 2004, we closed the first step in a two step purchase of the secondary market and related businesses of Education Assistance Foundation (EAF) and its affiliate, Student Loan Finance Association (SLFA) for a purchase price of approximately $435 million. As specified in the purchase agreement, concurrent with the consummation of the transaction, the sellers used $391 million of the purchase price to defease the debt funding certain loans acquired by the Company as part of this transaction. SLFA is a Northwest regional leader in education loan funding and acquisition. The first step of the transaction included SLFAs $1.8 billion student loan portfolio (and the related funding) and its origination franchise. In addition, as a part of this transaction, we entered into a full service guarantor servicing contract with EAFs affiliate, Northwest Education Association (NELA), a guarantee agency for FFELP student loans that serves the Pacific Northwest. In a related transaction, NELA became an affiliate of USA Funds, the Companys largest guarantor servicing client. The second step of the transaction is expected to close in 2005. Academic Management Services Corporation On November 17, 2003, the Company purchased all of the outstanding stock of Academic Management Services Corporation (AMS) for a purchase price of approximately $77 million including cash consideration and certain acquisition costs. We allocated the purchase price primarily to the $1.4 billion student loan portfolio and intangible assets including goodwill. In addition to the student loan portfolio, the purchase expanded our loan origination capability and enhanced our offerings to college and university business offices. Debt Management Operations (DMO) Business Segment In our DMO business segment, we have traditionally provided portfolio management, debt collection and default prevention services on a contingency fee basis, concentrating primarily in the education finance marketplace. Our investment in AFS Holdings, LLC, the parent company of Arrow Financial Services (collectively, AFS), has expanded our capabilities such that we now purchase delinquent and defaulted receivables and earn revenues from collections on those portfolios. Of our service areas, the contingency collections business is the most mature. While student loan contingency collections and other fee services will continue to be the core of DMO fee income, purchased portfolio revenue, primarily from credit card accounts, is expected to account for a larger component of DMO revenue in the future. The private sector collections industry is highly fragmented with few large public companies and a large number of small scale privately held companies. The collections industry segments that provide third party collections services for ED, FFELP guarantors and other federal holders of defaulted debt are highly competitive. Among the asset classes, credit card collections are the most competitive in both contingency collections and purchased paper activities. In the education finance marketplace, we are subject to the political risks associated with the FFELP as they relate to guarantors, our primary customers. An example of this risk is the proposed reduction in collections revenues in the Presidents proposed budget for Federal Fiscal Year (FFY) 2006. See OTHER RELATED EVENTS AND INFORMATION Reauthorization and Budget Proposals. In the purchased receivables business we have experienced increased competition in bidding for portfolio purchases, which has driven up prices in competitive bidding situations. We are responding to this challenge through enhanced servicing efficiencies and continuing to build on customer relationships through value added services. 28 Recent Developments Acquisitions in the DMO Business Segment AFS Holdings, LLC On September 16, 2004, we acquired 64 percent of AFS, a full service, accounts receivable management company that purchases charged off debt, conducts contingency collection work and performs first party receivables servicing across asset classes, for a purchase price of approximately $165 million including cash consideration and certain acquisition costs. Under the terms of the agreement, we have the option to purchase the remaining interest in AFS Holdings, LLC over a three year period. The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase accounting method. AFS employs nearly 1,300 individuals at locations in Niles, Illinois; Gaithersburg, Maryland; San Diego, California; Whitewater, Wisconsin; and Rockville Centre, New York. It will retain its brand and senior management team. AFS primarily purchases and services defaulted consumer receivables from credit grantors or resellers and then focuses its collection efforts to cover its investment and earn a sufficient return from the purchased portfolio. AFS also collects on behalf of debt owners on a contingency fee basis and provides first party delinquent and default receivables servicing. The purchased receivables business has potential for greater profitability than the contingency fee business due in large part to the maturity of the contingency business and the pricing risks and rewards associated with purchasing delinquent or defaulted debt. Our acquisition of AFS was important for two main reasons. It has further diversified our DMO revenues outside of the education marketplace and provides a disciplined pricing framework and servicing platform as well as years of experience in the purchase of delinquent and defaulted receivables. The addition of AFS also enables us to offer the purchase of distress or defaulted debt to our partner schools as an additional method of enhancing their receivables management strategies. Corporate and Other Business Segment Our Corporate and Other business segment reflects the aggregate activity of our smaller operating units including our Guarantor Servicing and Loan Servicing business units, other products and services, as well as corporate expenses that do not pertain directly to our business segments. In our Guarantor Servicing business unit, we provide a full complement of administrative services to FFELP guarantors including guarantee issuance, processing, account maintenance, and guarantee fulfillment. In our Loan Servicing business unit, we originate and service student loans on behalf of lenders who are unrelated to SLM Corporation. Such activities include processing correspondence and filing claims, originating and disbursing Consolidation Loans on behalf of the lender, and other administrative activities required by ED. 29 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The MD&A discusses our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting periods. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under varying assumptions or conditions. Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, Significant Accounting Policies, includes a summary of the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, particularly those that include the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments and are often about matters that are inherently uncertain. These estimates relate to the following accounting policies that are discussed in more detail below: securitization accounting and Retained Interests, loan effective interest method (premium/borrower benefits), provision for loan losses, and derivative accounting. Also, as part of our regular quarterly evaluation of the critical estimates used by the Company, we have updated a number of estimates to account for the increase in Consolidation Loan activity. Premiums, Discounts and Borrower Benefits For both federally insured and Private Education Loans, we account for premiums paid, discounts received and certain origination costs incurred on the origination and acquisition of student loans in accordance with SFAS No. 91, Accounting for Nonrefundable Fees and Costs Associated with Originating or Acquiring Loans and Initial Direct Costs of Leases. The unamortized portion of the premiums and the discounts is included in the carrying value of the student loan on the consolidated balance sheet. We recognize income on our student loan portfolio based on the expected yield of the student loan after giving effect to the amortization and accretion of purchase premiums and student loan discounts, as well as the borrower benefit discount. In arriving at the expected yield, we must make a number of estimates that when changed must be reflected in the balance from the inception of the student loan. The most sensitive estimate for premium and discount amortization is the estimate of the CPR, which measures the rate at which loans in the portfolio pay before their stated maturity. The CPR is used in calculating the average life of the portfolio. A number of factors can affect the CPR estimate such as the rate of Consolidation Loan activity, securitization activity and default rates. Changes in CPR estimates are discussed in more detail below. In addition to the CPR, the estimate of the borrower benefit discount is dependent on the estimate of the number of borrowers who will eventually qualify for these benefits. For competitive purposes, we frequently change the borrower benefit programs in both amount and qualification factors. These programmatic changes must be reflected in the estimate of the borrower benefit discount. Effects of Consolidation Loan Activity on Estimates The combination of aggressive marketing in the student loan industry and the ability to obtain a long term, fixed rate loan at low interest rates has led to continued high levels of Consolidation Loan volume, which, in turn, has had a significant effect on a number of accounting estimates in recent years. As long as interest rates remain at historically low levels, and absent any changes in the HEA, we expect the Consolidation Loan program to continue to be an attractive option for borrowers. We have updated our assumptions that are affected primarily by Consolidation Loan activity and updated the estimates used in developing the cash flows and effective yield calculations as they relate to the amortization of student loan premiums and discounts, borrower benefits, residual interest income and the valuation of the Residual Interest. Loan consolidation activity affects each estimate differently depending on whether the original FFELP Stafford loans being consolidated were on balance sheet or off balance sheet and whether the resulting Consolidation Loan is retained by us or consolidated with a third party. When we consolidate a FFELP Stafford loan that was in our portfolio, the term of that loan is extended and the term of the amortization of 30 the capitalized acquisition costs (premium) is likewise extended to match the new term of the loan. In that process the premium must be adjusted from inception to reflect the new term of the consolidated loan. The schedule below summarizes the impact of loan consolidation on each affected financial statement line item. Consolidation Loans in Securitizations The estimate of the CPR also affects the estimate of the average life of securitized trusts and therefore affects the valuation estimate of the Residual Interest. Prepayments shorten the average life of the trust, and if all other factors remain equal, will reduce the value of the Residual Interest asset, the securitization gain on sale and the effective yield used to recognize interest income. Prepayments on student loans in securitized trusts are primarily driven by the rate at which securitized FFELP Stafford loans are consolidated. When a loan is consolidated from the trust either by us or a third party, the loan is treated as a prepayment. In cases where the loan is consolidated by us, it will be recorded as an on balance sheet asset. We discuss the effects of changes in our CPR estimates in RESULTS OF OPERATIONS LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT Student Loans and RESULTS OF OPERATIONS LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Securitization Activities. Effect of Increasing Consolidation Activity On Balance Sheet Student Loans Consolidating Estimate Lender Effect on Estimate CPR Accounting Effect Premium Sallie Mae Term extension Decrease Estimate Adjustment(1) increase unamortized balance of premium. Reduced annual amortization expense going forward. Premium Other lenders Stafford loan prepaid Increase Estimate Adjustment(1) decrease unamortized balance of premium or accelerated amortization of premium. Borrower Benefits Sallie Mae Term extension N/A Original Stafford loan expected benefit expense reversed new Consolidation Loan benefit amortized over a longer term. (2) Borrower Benefits Other lenders Stafford loan prepaid N/A Borrower benefit reserve reversed into income.(2) (1) As estimates are updated, in accordance with SFAS No. 91, the premium balance must be adjusted from inception to reflect the new expected term of the loan. (2) Consolidation estimates also affect the estimates of borrowers who will eventually qualify for borrower benefits. 31 Off Balance Sheet Student Loans Consolidating Estimate Lender Effect on Estimate CPR Accounting Effect Residual Interest Sallie Mae or other lenders FFELP Stafford loan is prepaid Increase Reduction in fair market value of Residual Interest asset resulting in either an impairment charge or reduction in prior market value gains recorded in other comprehensive income. Decrease in prospective effective yield used to recognize interest income. Securitization Accounting and Retained Interests We regularly engage in securitization transactions as part of our financing strategy. As described in more detail in RESULTS OF OPERATIONS LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Securitization Activities, in a securitization we sell student loans to a trust that issues bonds backed by the student loans as part of the transaction. When our securitizations meet the sale criteria of SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities a Replacement of SFAS No. 125, we record a gain on the sale of the student loans which is the difference between the allocated cost basis of the assets sold and the relative fair value of the assets received. The primary judgment in determining the fair value of the assets received is the valuation of the residual interest. The Retained Interests in each of our securitizations are treated as available for sale securities in accordance with SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, and therefore must be marked to market with temporary unrealized gains and losses recognized, net of tax, in accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders equity. Since there are no quoted market prices for our Retained Interests, we estimate their fair value both initially and each subsequent quarter using the key assumptions listed below: the projected net interest yield from the underlying securitized loans, which can be impacted by the forward yield curve; the calculation of the Embedded Floor Income associated with the securitized loan portfolio; the CPR; the discount rate used, which is intended to be commensurate with the risks involved; and the expected credit losses from the underlying securitized loan portfolio. We recognize interest income and periodically evaluate our Retained Interests for other than temporary impairment in accordance with the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 99 20 Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased and Retained Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets. Under this standard, on a quarterly basis we estimate the cash flows to be received from our Retained Interests and these revised cash flows are used prospectively to calculate a yield for income recognition. In cases where our estimate of future cash flows results in a decrease in the yield used to recognize interest income compared to the prior quarter, the Retained Interest is written down to fair value, first to the extent of any unrealized gain in accumulated other comprehensive income, then through earnings as an other than temporary impairment. These estimates are the same as those used for the valuation of the Residual Interest discussed above. We also receive income for servicing the loans in our securitization trusts. We assess the amounts received as compensation for these activities at inception and on an ongoing basis to determine if the amounts 32 received are adequate compensation as defined in SFAS No. 140. To the extent such compensation is determined to be no more or less than adequate compensation, no servicing asset or obligation is recorded. Provision for Loan Losses The provision for loan losses represents the periodic expense of maintaining an allowance sufficient to absorb losses, net of recoveries, inherent in the student loan portfolios. The allowance for Private Education Loan losses is an estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at the balance sheet date that will be charged off in subsequent periods. We estimate our losses using historical data from our Private Education Loan portfolios, extrapolations of FFELP loan loss data, current trends and relevant industry information. As our Private Education Loan portfolios continue to mature, more reliance is placed on our own historic Private Education Loan charge off and recovery data. Accordingly, during the third quarter of 2004, we updated our expected default assumptions to further align the allowance estimate with our collection experience and the terms and policies of the individual Private Education Loan programs. We use this data in internally developed models to estimate the amount of losses, net of subsequent collections, projected to occur in the Private Education Loan portfolios. When calculating the Private Education Loan loss reserve, we divide the portfolio into categories of similar risk characteristics based on loan program type, underwriting criteria, existence or absence of a co borrower, repayment begin date, repayment status, and aging. We then apply default and collection rate projections to each category. The repayment begin date indicates when the borrower is required to begin repaying their loan. Our career training Private Education Loan programs (13 percent of the Managed Private Education Loan portfolio at December 31, 2004) generally require the borrowers to start repaying their loans immediately. Our higher education Private Education Loan programs (87 percent of the Managed Private Education Loan portfolio at December 31, 2004) do not require the borrowers to begin repayment until six months after they have graduated or otherwise left school. Consequently, our loss estimates for these programs are minimal while the borrower is in school. At December 31, 2004, 45 percent of the principal balance in the higher education Managed Private Education Loan portfolio related to borrowers who are still in school and not required to make payments. As the current portfolio ages, an increasing percentage of the borrowers will leave school and be required to begin payments on their loans. The allowance for losses will change accordingly with the percentage of borrowers in repayment. Our loss estimates include losses to be incurred over the loss confirmation period, which is two years for career training loans beginning when the loan is originated and five years for higher education loans beginning when the borrower leaves school. Similar to the rules governing FFELP payment requirements, our collection policies allow for periods of nonpayment for borrowers requesting additional payment grace periods upon leaving school or experiencing temporary difficulty meeting payment obligations. This is referred to as forbearance status. The vast majority of forbearance occurs early in the repayment term when borrowers are starting their careers (see RESULTS OF OPERATIONS LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT Student Loans Delinquencies). At December 31, 2004, 4 percent of the Managed Private Education Loan portfolio was in forbearance status. The loss confirmation period is in alignment with our typical collection cycle and takes into account these periods of nonpayment. Private Education Loan principal is charged off against the allowance at 212 days delinquency. Private Education Loans continue to accrue interest, including in periods of forbearance, until they are charged off and removed from the active portfolio, at which time the accrued interest is charged off against interest income. Recoveries on loans charged off are recorded directly to the allowance. Effective for a renewable one year period beginning on October 19, 2004, Sallie Mae, Inc.s loan servicing division, Sallie Mae Servicing, was designated as an Exceptional Performer (EP) by ED in recognition of meeting certain performance standards set by ED in servicing FFELP loans. As a result of this designation, the Company receives 100 percent reimbursement on default claims on federally guaranteed student loans that are serviced by Sallie Mae Servicing for a period of at least 270 days before the date of default and will no longer be subject to the two percent Risk Sharing on these loans. The Company is entitled to receive this 33 benefit as long as the Company remains in compliance with the required servicing standards, which are assessed on an annual and quarterly basis through compliance audits and other criteria. The 100 percent reimbursement applies to all FFELP loans that are serviced by the Company as well as default claims on federally guaranteed student loans that the Company owns but are serviced by other service providers with the EP designation. At December 31, 2004, approximately 88 percent of the Companys on balance sheet federally insured loans are no longer subject to Risk Sharing. As a result of this designation, the Company has reduced the balance in the allowance for loan losses by $33 million. Accordingly, the evaluation of the provision for loan losses is inherently subjective, as it requires material estimates that may be susceptible to significant changes. Management believes that the allowance for loan losses is appropriate to cover probable losses in the student loan portfolio. Derivative Accounting We use interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, interest rate futures contracts, Floor Income Contracts and interest rate cap contracts as an integral part of our overall risk management strategy to manage interest rate risk arising from our fixed rate and floating rate financial instruments. We account for these instruments in accordance with SFAS No. 133 which requires that every derivative instrument, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, be recorded at fair value on the balance sheet as either an asset or liability. We determine the fair value for our derivative instruments using pricing models that consider current market values and the contractual terms of the derivative contracts. Pricing models and their underlying assumptions impact the amount and timing of unrealized gains and losses recognized; the use of different pricing models or assumptions could produce different financial results. As a matter of policy, we compare the fair values of our derivatives that we calculate to those provided by our counterparties on a monthly basis. Any significant differences are identified and resolved appropriately. We make certain judgments in the application of hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. The most significant judgment relates to the application of hedge accounting in connection with our forecasted debt issuances. Under SFAS No. 133, if the forecasted transaction is probable to occur then hedge accounting may be applied. We regularly update our probability assessment related to such forecasted debt issuances. This assessment includes analyzing prior debt issuances and assessing changes in our future funding strategies. SFAS No. 133 requires that changes in the fair value of derivative instruments be recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria as specified by SFAS No. 133 are met. We believe that all of our derivatives are effective economic hedges and are a critical element of our interest rate risk management strategy. However, under SFAS No. 133, some of our derivatives, primarily Floor Income Contracts, certain Eurodollar futures contracts, certain basis swaps and equity forwards, do not qualify for hedge treatment under SFAS No. 133. Therefore, changes in market value along with the periodic net settlements must be recorded through the derivative market value adjustment in the income statement with no consideration for the corresponding change in fair value of the hedged item. The derivative market value adjustment is primarily caused by interest rate volatility and changing credit spreads during the period and the volume and term of derivatives not receiving hedge accounting treatment. See also ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Derivative Accounting for a detailed discussion of our accounting for derivatives. 34 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Condensed Statements of Income Increase (decrease) Years Ended December 31, 2004 vs. 2003 2003 vs. 2002 2004 2003 2002 $ % $ % Net interest income $ 1,299 $ 1,326 $ 1,425 $ (27 ) (2 )% $ (99 ) (7 )% Less: provision for losses 111 147 117 (36 ) (24 ) 30 26 Net interest income after provision for losses 1,188 1,179 1,308 9 1 (129 ) (10 ) Gains on student loan securitizations 375 744 338 (369 ) (50 ) 406 120 Servicing and securitization revenue 561 667 839 (106 ) (16 ) (172 ) (21 ) Losses on securities, net (49 ) (10 ) (2 ) (39 ) (390 ) (8 ) (400 ) Derivative market value adjustment 849 (238 ) (1,082 ) 1,087 457 844 78 Guarantor servicing fees 120 128 106 (8 ) (6 ) 22 21 Debt management fees and collections revenue 340 259 186 81 31 73 39 Other income 289 249 220 40 16 29 13 Operating expenses 895 795 690 100 13 105 15 Loss on GSE debt extinguishment and defeasance 221 221 100 Income taxes 642 779 431 (137 ) (18 ) 348 81 Minority interest in net earnings of subsidiaries 1 1 100 Cumulative effect of accounting change 130 (130 ) (100 ) 130 Net income 1,914 1,534 792 380 25 742 94 Preferred stock dividends 12 12 12 Net income attributable to common stock $ 1,902 $ 1,522 $ 780 $ 380 25 % $ 742 95 % Basic earnings per common share, before cumulative effect of accounting change $ 4.36 $ 3.08 $ 1.69 $ 1.28 42 % $ 1.39 82 % Basic earnings per common share, after cumulative effect of accounting change $ 4.36 $ 3.37 $ 1.69 $ .99 29 % $ 1.68 99 % Diluted earnings per common share, before cumulative effect of accounting change $ 4.04 $ 2.91 $ 1.64 $ 1.13 39 % $ 1.27 77 % Diluted earnings per common share, after cumulative effect of accounting change $ 4.04 $ 3.18 $ 1.64 $ .86 27 % $ 1.54 94 % Dividends per common share $ .74 $ .59 $ .28 $ .15 25 % $ .31 111 % 35 Condensed Balance Sheets Increase (decrease) December 31, 2004 vs. 2003 2003 vs. 2002 2004 2003 $ % $ % Assets Federally insured student loans, net $ 60,561 $ 45,577 $ 14,984 33 % $ 8,413 23 % Private Education Loans, net 5,420 4,470 950 21 (705 ) (14 ) Academic facilities financings and other loans, net 1,048 1,031 17 2 (171 ) (14 ) Cash and investments 6,975 6,896 79 1 2,382 53 Restricted cash and investments 2,211 1,106 1,105 100 630 132 Retained Interest in securitized receivables 2,316 2,476 (160 ) (6 ) 330 15 Goodwill and acquired intangible assets 1,066 592 474 80 6 1 Other assets 4,497 2,463 2,034 83 551 29 Total assets $ 84,094 $ 64,611 $ 19,483 30 % $ 11,436 22 % Liabilities and Stockholders Equity Short term borrowings $ 2,207 $ 18,735 $ (16,528 ) (88 )% $ (6,884 ) (27 )% Long term notes 75,915 39,808 36,107 91 17,566 79 Other liabilities 2,798 3,438 (640 ) (19 ) 122 4 Total liabilities 80,920 61,981 18,939 31 10,804 21 Minority interest in subsidiaries 72 72 100 Stockholders equity before treasury stock 5,129 3,180 1,949 61 (1,523 ) (32 ) Common stock held in treasury at cost 2,027 550 1,477 269 (2,155 ) (80 ) Total stockholders equity 3,102 2,630 472 18 632 32 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 84,094 $ 64,611 $ 19,483 30 % $ 11,436 22 % 36 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS As discussed in detail above in the OVERVIEW section, we have two primary business segments, Lending and DMO, plus a Corporate and Other business segment. Since these business segments operate in distinct business environments, after a general discussion of the consolidated results of operations, the discussion herein of the results of our operations is primarily presented on a segment basis. The Lending business segment includes all discussion of income and related expenses associated with net interest margin, student loan spread and its components, securitization gains and the ongoing servicing and securitization income, derivative market value gains and losses, and other fees earned on our Managed portfolio of student loans. The DMO business segment reflects the fees earned and expenses incurred to operate our DMO business. Our Corporate and Other business segment includes our ancillary fee businesses and other corporate expenses that do not pertain directly to the primary segments identified above. Unless otherwise noted, the financial information contained herein is in accordance with GAAP. We also present financial information for our reportable operating segments in Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements, Segment Reporting, which reflects core cash measures. Core cash measures are discussed in detail below in ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES. CONSOLIDATED EARNINGS SUMMARY The main drivers of our net income are the growth in our Managed student loan portfolio, which drives net interest income and securitization transactions, market value gains and losses on derivatives that do not receive hedge accounting treatment, the timing and size of securitization gains, growth in our fee based business and expense control. Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2003 For the year ended December 31, 2004, our net income was $1.9 billion ($4.04 diluted earnings per share) versus net income of $1.5 billion ($3.18 diluted earnings per share) in 2003. The increase in net income from 2003 to 2004 is due to several factors. The principal driver of the growth in net income was a $1.1 billion pre tax increase in the derivative market value adjustment. The derivative market value gain can primarily be attributed to the positive effect that the increase in forward interest rates had on the valuation of our Floor Income Contracts and to gains on our equity forward contracts caused by the increase in the market value of our common stock. In 2004, other income (which includes guarantor servicing fees, debt management fees and collections revenue, and other fee based income) increased by 18 percent to $749 million versus 2003. This increase can mainly be attributed to an increase in revenue from our DMO segment, late and other borrower fees and to termination fees from Bank One. In 2003, other income benefited from a $40 million gain on the sale of our prior headquarters building. The year over year increases in other income were offset by $369 million in lower securitization gains due to 2004 Consolidation Loan securitizations not qualifying for off balance sheet treatment and $106 million in lower servicing and securitization revenue due to primarily lower Embedded Floor Income. Net income in 2004 was also negatively impacted by a $221 million pre tax loss related to the repurchase and defeasance of $3.0 billion of GSE debt in connection with the GSE Wind Down and a 13 percent increase in other operating expenses to $895 million versus 2003. This increase can be attributed to acquisitions and increased servicing and debt management expenses consistent with the growth in borrowers and the growth in the debt management business. Also, in 2004, net interest income after provision for loan losses was relatively flat versus 2003 caused by two offsetting factors: the increase in net interest income, driven by an $11 billion increase in our average balance of on balance sheet student loans, and offset by the reduction in Floor Income caused by higher interest rates. Our Managed student loan portfolio grew by $18.6 billion, from $88.8 billion at December 31, 2003 to $107.4 billion at December 31, 2004. This growth was fueled by the $29.9 billion in new Managed student loans acquired in 2004, a 45 percent increase over the $20.7 billion acquired in 2003. In 2004, we originated 37 $18.0 billion of student loans through our Preferred Channel, an increase of 18 percent over the $15.2 billion originated in 2003. Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2002 Net income for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $1.5 billion ($3.18 diluted earnings per share) versus $792 million ($1.64 diluted earnings per share) in 2002. The increase in net income from 2002 to 2003 is mainly due to an increase in securitization gains, a pre tax $844 million reduction in the loss on the derivative market value adjustment, an increase in fee based income, and a $130 million unrealized gain on our equity forward positions, which was reflected as a cumulative effect of accounting change for the adoption of SFAS No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity. These increases were offset by decreases in student loan income, decreases in servicing and securitization revenue resulting from changes in accounting estimates in the fourth quarter of 2003, reduced levels of Floor Income, an increase in operating expenses due to the acquisitions, and increases in debt management and servicing expenses consistent with the growth in the debt management business. For the year ended December 31, 2003, managed student loans increased 14 percent in 2003 to $88.8 billion at December 31, 2003. In 2003, we acquired $20.7 billion of student loans, a 25 percent increase over the $16.5 billion acquired in 2002. Of the student loans acquired, we originated $15.2 billion through our Preferred Channel, an increase of 23 percent over the $12.4 billion originated in 2002. LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT The following table includes the results of operations for our Lending business segment. Condensed Statements of Income Year Ended December 31, % Increase (Decrease) 2004 2003 2002 2004 vs. 2003 2003 vs. 2002 Net interest income $ 1,299 $ 1,326 $ 1,425 (2 )% (7 )% Less: provision for loan losses 111 147 117 (25 ) 26 Net interest income after provision for loan losses 1,188 1,179 1,308 1 (10 ) Other income, net 1,899 1,289 203 47 535 Operating expenses 681 431 367 58 17 Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change 2,406 2,037 1,144 18 78 Income taxes 585 729 403 (20 ) 81 Income before cumulative effect of accounting change 1,821 1,308 741 39 77 Cumulative effect of accounting change 130 (100 ) 100 Net income $ 1,821 $ 1,438 $ 741 27 % 94 % 38 The following table includes asset information for our Lending business segment. December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Federally insured student loans, net $ 60,561 $ 45,577 $ 37,164 Private Education Loans, net 5,420 4,470 5,175 Academic facilities financings and other loans, net 1,048 1,031 1,202 Investments(1) 8,914 7,741 4,794 Retained Interest in securitized receivables 2,315 2,472 2,137 Other(2) 4,792 2,600 1,926 Total assets $ 83,050 $ 63,891 $ 52,398 (1) Investments include cash and cash equivalents, short and long term investments, restricted cash and investments, leveraged leases, and municipal bonds. (2) Other assets include accrued interest receivable, goodwill and acquired intangible assets and other non interest earning assets. Net Interest Income Net interest income, including interest income and interest expense, is derived primarily from our portfolio of student loans that remain on balance sheet and to a lesser extent from other loans, cash and investments. The Taxable Equivalent Net Interest Income analysis below is designed to facilitate a comparison of non taxable asset yields to taxable yields on a similar basis. Additional information regarding the return on our student loan portfolio is set forth under Student Loans Student Loan Spread Analysis. Information regarding the provision for losses is contained in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, Allowance for Student Loan Losses. Taxable Equivalent Net Interest Income The amounts in the following table are adjusted for the impact of certain tax exempt and tax advantaged investments based on the marginal federal corporate tax rate of 35 percent. Increase (decrease) Years Ended December 31, 2004 vs. 2003 2003 vs. 2002 2004 2003 2002 $ % $ % Interest income Student loans $ 2,426 $ 2,121 $ 2,450 $ 305 14 % $ (329 ) (13 )% Academic facilities financings and other loans 74 77 96 (3 ) (4 ) (19 ) (20 ) Investments 233 150 88 83 55 62 70 Taxable equivalent adjustment 9 16 18 (7 ) (44 ) (2 ) (11 ) Total taxable equivalent interest income 2,742 2,364 2,652 378 16 (288 ) (11 ) Interest expense 1,434 1,022 1,210 412 40 (188 ) (16 ) Taxable equivalent net interest income $ 1,308 $ 1,342 $ 1,442 $ (34 ) (3 )% $ (100 ) (7 )% 39 Average Balance Sheets The following table reflects the rates earned on interest earning assets and paid on interest bearing liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. This table reflects the net interest margin for the entire Company on a consolidated basis. It is included in the Lending segment discussion because that segment includes substantially all interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Balance Rate Balance Rate Balance Rate Average Assets Federally insured student loans $ 51,091 4.09 % $ 40,108 4.52 % $ 38,023 5.55 % Private Education Loans 4,795 7.00 5,019 6.13 5,059 6.69 Academic facilities financings and other loans 1,004 7.72 1,129 7.27 1,460 7.19 Cash and investments 11,321 2.11 6,840 2.36 4,885 1.98 Total interest earning assets 68,211 4.02 % 53,096 4.45 % 49,427 5.37 % Non interest earning assets 6,497 5,950 4,758 Total assets $ 74,708 $ 59,046 $ 54,185 Average Liabilities and Stockholders Equity Six month floating rate notes $ 1,586 1.23 % $ 2,988 1.14 % $ 3,006 1.76 % Other short term borrowings 9,010 2.07 22,007 1.64 27,159 1.97 Long term notes 58,134 2.11 28,407 2.21 19,757 3.15 Total interest bearing liabilities 68,730 2.09 % 53,402 1.91 % 49,922 2.42 % Non interest bearing liabilities 3,195 3,169 2,397 Stockholders equity 2,783 2,475 1,866 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 74,708 $ 59,046 $ 54,185 Net interest margin 1.92 % 2.53 % 2.92 % Rate/Volume Analysis The following rate/volume analysis shows the relative contribution of changes in interest rates and asset volumes. Increase (decrease) Taxable attributable to equivalent change in increase (decrease) Rate Volume 2004 vs. 2003 Taxable equivalent interest income $ 378 $ (201 ) $ 579 Interest expense 412 (16 ) 428 Taxable equivalent net interest income $ (34 ) $ (185 ) $ 151 2003 vs. 2002 Taxable equivalent interest income $ (288 ) $ (409 ) $ 121 Interest expense (188 ) (358 ) 170 Taxable equivalent net interest income $ (100 ) $ (51 ) $ (49 ) 40 The decrease in the net interest margin from the year ended December 31, 2003 to the year ended December 31, 2004 was primarily due to the decrease in Floor Income and other student loan spread related items as discussed under Student Loans Student Loan Spread Analysis. The decrease in the net interest margin was also due to the effect of the GSE Wind Down. Without the low funding cost provided by the GSE, the margin on our highly liquid, short term investments turns negative. Also, we have replaced short term GSE financing with longer term more expensive non GSE financing. Student Loans For both federally insured student loans and Private Education Loans, we account for premiums paid, discounts received and certain origination costs incurred on the origination and acquisition of student loans in accordance with SFAS No. 91. The unamortized portion of the premiums and discounts are included in the carrying value of the student loan on the consolidated balance sheet. We recognize income on our student loan portfolio based on the expected yield of the student loan after giving effect to the amortization of purchase premiums and the accretion of student loan discounts, as well as the discount expected to be earned through borrower benefit programs. Discounts on Private Education Loans are deferred and accreted to income over the lives of the student loans. In the table below, this accretion of discounts is netted with the amortization of the premiums. Student Loan Spread Analysis On Balance Sheet The following table analyzes the reported earnings from student loans both on balance sheet and those off balance sheet in securitization trusts. For student loans off balance sheet, we will continue to earn securitization and servicing fee revenues over the life of the securitized loan portfolios. The off balance sheet information is discussed in more detail in LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Securitization Activities Servicing and Securitization Revenue where we analyze the on going servicing revenue and Residual Interest earned on the securitized portfolios of student loans. For an analysis of our student loan 41 spread for the entire portfolio of Managed student loans on a similar basis to the on balance sheet analysis, see Student Loan Spread Analysis Managed Basis. Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 On Balance Sheet Student loan yield, before Floor Income 4.53 % 4.28 % 4.98 % Floor Income .73 1.23 1.48 Consolidation Loan Rebate Fees (.58 ) (.50 ) (.40 ) Offset Fees (.03 ) (.07 ) (.10 ) Borrower benefits (.18 ) (.06 ) (.08 ) Premium and discount amortization (.13 ) (.18 ) (.19 ) Student loan net yield 4.34 4.70 5.69 Student loan cost of funds (2.01 ) (1.70 ) (2.30 ) Student loan spread 2.33 % 3.00 % 3.39 % Off Balance Sheet Servicing and securitization revenue, before Floor Income 1.17 % 1.27 % 1.49 % Floor Income, net of Floor Income previously recognized in gain on sale calculation .21 .47 1.11 Servicing and securitization revenue 1.38 % 1.74 % 2.60 % Average Balances On balance sheet student loans $ 55,885 $ 45,127 $ 43,082 Off balance sheet student loans 40,558 38,205 32,280 Managed student loans $ 96,443 $ 83,332 $ 75,362 The primary driver of fluctuations in our on balance sheet student loan spread is the level of Floor Income earned in the period. In 2004, 2003 and 2002, we earned gross Floor Income of $408 million (73 basis points), $554 million (123 basis points) and $636 million (148 basis points), respectively. The reduction in Floor Income is due to the increase in short term interest rates in 2004. We believe that we have economically hedged most of the Floor Income through the sale of Floor Income Contracts. When we sell a Floor Income Contract we receive an upfront fee and agree to pay the counterparty the Floor Income earned on a notional amount of student loans. These contracts do not qualify for accounting hedge treatment and as a result are excluded from net interest income and from the above student loan spread analysis. Instead, payments of Floor Income under these contracts are required to be reported with other cumulative realized and unrealized gains and losses in the derivative market value adjustment line in the income statement. For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, net Floor Income for on balance sheet student loans was $40 million (7 basis points), $146 million (32 basis points) and $219 million (51 basis points), respectively. Payments on Floor Income Contracts associated with on balance sheet student loans for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 totaled $368 million (66 basis points), $408 million (91 basis points) and $417 million (97 basis points), respectively. In addition to Floor Income Contracts, we also extensively use basis swaps to manage our basis risk associated with interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities. These swaps also do not qualify as accounting hedges and are likewise required to be accounted for in the derivative market value adjustment and not part of the cost of funds in the above table. Had net settlements of these swaps been included with the associated debt, our on balance sheet cost of funds would have been 2.02 percent, 1.65 percent and 2.31 percent, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. 42 Discussion of the Year over Year Effect of Changes in Accounting Estimates on the On Balance Sheet Student Loan Spread As discussed in detail and summarized in a table under CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES, we periodically update our estimates for changes in the student loan portfolio. Under SFAS No. 91, these changes in estimates must be reflected in the balance of the student loan from inception. We have also updated our estimates to reflect programmatic changes in our borrower benefit and Private Education Loan programs and have made modeling refinements to better reflect current and future conditions. The effects of the changes in estimates on the student loan spread are summarized in the table below: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 (Dollars in millions) Dollar Value Basis Points Dollar Value Basis Points Changes in critical accounting estimates: Effect on premium/discount: FFELP Stafford and Consolidation Loans $ $ (19 ) (4 ) Private Education Loans (8 ) (1 ) (23 ) (5 ) Total effect on premium/discount (8 ) (1 ) (42 ) (9 ) Borrower benefits 5 1 10 2 Total changes in estimates $ (3 ) $ (32 ) (7 ) In 2004, based on our ongoing analysis of our Private Education Loan portfolio, we determined that the portfolio was repaying slower than previously estimated, and in response we increased the period for which we amortize student loan discounts resulting in an increase to the unamortized student loan discount balance of $8 million during 2004. In response to the continued high rate of Consolidation Loan activity, we lowered our estimate of the number of Stafford borrowers who will eventually qualify for borrower benefits and revised the term over which benefits are expected to be realized. As a result, we recorded a $5 million reduction in the liability for borrower benefits. The net effect of these updates to our estimates in 2004 was a $3 million or 1 basis point reduction in the student loan spread. In 2003, we updated our estimates to reflect the increase in Consolidation Loan activity. We decreased the CPR for FFELP Stafford loans to reflect the extension of the term of these loans when consolidated into a Sallie Mae Consolidation Loan, which results in an increase to the unamortized student loan premium. At the same time, we increased the CPR for the Consolidation Loan portfolio, which had the opposite effect on the premium balance and premium amortization. The net effect of these changes was a $19 million adjustment to decrease the unamortized student loan premium and increase current period amortization expense. We also decreased our estimate of the CPR associated with our Private Education Loan program to reflect slower than anticipated repayments resulting in a $23 million increase in the unamortized student loan discount. Also, in 2003, we reduced our estimate of the number of borrowers who eventually qualify for FFELP Stafford borrower benefits resulting in a $10 million estimate adjustment to reduce the estimated borrower benefit liability and increase student loan income. The net effect of these updates to our estimates in 2003 was a $32 million or 7 basis point reduction in the student loan spread. Discussion of Year over Year Fluctuations in On Balance Sheet Student Loan Spread in Addition to Changes in Accounting Estimates The decrease in the 2004 student loan spread versus the prior year is primarily due to the higher average balance of Consolidation Loans as a percentage of the on balance sheet portfolio. Consolidation Loans have lower spreads than other FFELP loans due to the 105 basis point Consolidation Loan Rebate Fee, more robust borrower benefits, and higher funding costs due to their longer terms. These negative effects are partially offset by lower student loan premium amortization due to the extended term and a higher SAP yield. The average 43 balance of Consolidation Loans grew as a percentage of the average on balance sheet FFELP student loan portfolio from 56 percent in 2003 to 62 percent in 2004. Other factors that negatively impacted the student loan spread are lower Floor Income due to higher average interest rates, higher spreads on our debt funding student loans as a result of the GSE Wind Down, and higher borrower benefit costs. These negative factors were partially offset by the absence of Offset Fees on GSE financed loans and higher student loan yields. The increase in funding costs is due to the replacement of lower cost, primarily short term GSE funding with longer term, higher cost non GSE funding. In 2004, GSE liabilities were heavily weighted to short term in anticipation of the GSE Wind Down. The increase in borrower benefit costs can be attributable to an increase in the estimate of borrowers qualifying for the benefit and to changes to certain programs that shorten the periods required to qualify, primarily as they relate to Consolidation Loans. These changes had a greater effect on the on balance sheet student loan spread due to the higher percentage of Consolidation Loans. These negative effects were partially offset by the increase in Private Education Loans in the on balance sheet student loan portfolio and lower net premium/ discount amortization. In addition to the effects of estimate adjustments, the student loan spread decreased by 32 basis points from 2002 to 2003. This decrease was primarily due to the higher average balance of Consolidation Loans, lower Floor Income and higher funding spreads on the debt. These negative effects were partially offset by the increase in Private Education Loans in the on balance sheet student loan portfolio. Student Loan Spread Analysis Managed Basis The following table analyzes the earnings from our portfolio of Managed student loans on a core cash basis (see ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES). This analysis includes both on balance sheet and off balance sheet loans in securitization trusts and derivatives economically hedging these line items and excludes Floor Income while including the amortization of upfront payments on Floor Income Contracts. Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Managed Basis student loan yield 4.59 % 4.26 % 4.94 % Consolidation Loan Rebate Fees (.42 ) (.36 ) (.26 ) Offset Fees (.02 ) (.04 ) (.06 ) Borrower benefits (.08 ) (.05 ) (.11 ) Premium and discount amortization (.13 ) (.10 ) (.25 ) Managed Basis student loan net yield 3.94 3.71 4.26 Managed Basis student loan cost of funds (2.06 ) (1.71 ) (2.38 ) Managed Basis student loan spread 1.88 % 2.00 % 1.88 % Average Balances On balance sheet student loans $ 55,885 $ 45,127 $ 43,082 Off balance sheet student loans 40,558 38,205 32,280 Managed student loans $ 96,443 $ 83,332 $ 75,362 Discussion of the Year over Year Effect of Changes in Accounting Estimates on the Managed Student Loan Spread As discussed in detail and summarized in a table at CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES, we periodically update our estimates for changes in the student loan portfolio. Under SFAS No. 91, these changes in estimates must be reflected in the balance from inception of the student loan. We have also updated our estimates to reflect programmatic changes in our borrower benefit and Private 44 Education Loan programs and have made modeling refinements to better reflect current and future conditions. The effects of the changes in estimates are summarized in the table below: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 (Dollars in millions) Dollar Value Basis Points Dollar Value Basis Points Changes in critical accounting estimates: Effect on premium/discount: FFELP Stafford and Consolidation Loans $ 36 4 $ 51 6 Private Education Loans (24 ) (3 ) (23 ) (3 ) Total effect on premium/discount 12 1 28 3 Borrower benefits 22 2 39 5 Total changes in estimates $ 34 3 $ 67 8 In 2004, we updated our estimates of average life associated with our FFELP Stafford and Consolidation Loan programs. The net effect of these changes was a $36 million adjustment to increase the unamortized student loan premium. The difference between the effect for on balance sheet and off balance sheet was primarily due to a refinement in our estimates for off balance sheet loans that did not have the same effect on balance sheet and to the different mix of FFELP Stafford and Consolidation Loans on balance sheet versus the mix on a Managed Basis. In 2004, based on our ongoing analysis of our Managed Private Education Loan portfolio, we determined that the portfolio was repaying at a slower rate than previously estimated. In response, we increased the period for which we amortize student loan discounts resulting in an increase to the unamortized student loan discount balance of $24 million during 2004. Additionally, the continued high rate of Consolidation Loan activity results in fewer Stafford borrowers qualifying for borrower benefits. In response to this trend, we lowered our estimate of the number of Stafford borrowers who will eventually qualify for borrower benefits and revised the term over which benefits are expected to be realized. As a result, we recorded a $22 million reduction in the liability for borrower benefits during 2004. The net effect of these updates to our estimates in 2004 was a $34 million or 3 basis point increase in the Managed student loan spread. In 2003, we made similar updates to our estimates of the CPR to reflect the effect of the increase in Consolidation Loan activity on our FFELP Stafford and Consolidation Loan portfolios. The net effect of these changes was a $51 million adjustment to increase the unamortized student loan premium and decrease current period amortization expense. We also updated our estimate of the CPR associated with our Private Education Loan program which resulted in a $23 million adjustment to increase the unamortized student loan discount and decrease current period discount amortization. Also, in 2003, we reduced our estimate of the number of borrowers who eventually qualify for FFELP Stafford borrower benefits resulting in a $39 million adjustment to reduce the estimated borrower benefit liability and increase student loan income. The net effect of these updates to our estimates in 2003 was a $67 million or 8 basis point increase in the student loan spread. Discussion of Year over Year Fluctuations in Managed Student Loan Spread in Addition to Changes in Accounting Estimates The decrease in the 2004 student loan spread versus 2003, in addition to the changes in estimates disclosed above, is primarily due to the higher average balance of Consolidation Loans as a percentage of the Managed portfolio. Consolidation Loans have lower spreads than other FFELP loans due to the 105 basis point Consolidation Loan Rebate Fee, higher qualification rates for borrower benefits, and higher funding costs due to their longer terms. These negative effects are partially offset by lower student loan premium amortization due to the extended term and a higher SAP yield. The average balance of Consolidation Loans 45 grew as a percentage of the average Managed FFELP student loan portfolio from 39 percent in 2003 to 46 percent in 2004. Our student loan spread was negatively impacted by higher spreads on our debt funding student loans, which was partially offset by the absence of Offset Fees on GSE financed loans. The increase in funding costs is due to the replacement of lower cost primarily short term GSE funding with longer term, higher cost non GSE funding in connection with the GSE Wind Down. The 2004 student loan spread benefited from the increase in the average balance of Managed Private Education Loans as a percentage of the average Managed student loan portfolio from 9 percent in 2003 to 11 percent in 2004. Private Education Loans are subject to credit risk and therefore earn higher spreads which averaged 4.29 percent for the year ended December 31, 2004 versus a spread of 1.59 percent for the Managed guaranteed student loan portfolio. In addition to the estimate adjustments discussed above, the increase in the 2003 student loan spread versus 2002 was due to the increase in the percentage of Private Education Loans in the Managed student loan portfolio partially offset by the higher credit spreads on the debt funding student loans due to the GSE Wind Down, and the increase of Consolidation Loans as a percentage of the total portfolio. Floor Income For on balance sheet student loans, gross Floor Income is included in student loan income whereas payments on Floor Income Contracts are included in the derivative market value adjustment line in other income. The following table summarizes the components of Floor Income from on balance sheet student loans, net of payments under Floor Income Contracts, for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Fixed Variable Fixed Variable Fixed Variable borrower borrower borrower borrower borrower borrower Rate Rate Total Rate Rate Total Rate Rate Total Floor Income: Gross Floor Income $ 406 $ 2 $ 408 $ 523 $ 31 $ 554 $ 513 $ 123 $ 636 Payments on Floor Income Contracts (368 ) (368 ) (408 ) (408 ) (409 ) (8 ) (417 ) Net Floor Income $ 38 $ 2 $ 40 $ 115 $ 31 $ 146 $ 104 $ 115 $ 219 Net Floor Income in basis points 7 7 25 7 32 24 27 51 The decrease in net Floor Income for the year ended December 31, 2004 versus the prior year is due to higher interest rates reducing gross Floor Income and a higher percentage of Floor Income eligible student loans economically hedged through Floor Income Contracts offsetting the increase in Consolidation Loans eligible to earn fixed rate Floor Income. As discussed in more detail under LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Securitization Activities, when we securitize a portfolio of student loans, we estimate the future Fixed Rate Embedded Floor Income earned on off balance sheet student loans using a discounted cash flow option pricing model and recognize the fair value of such cash flows in the initial gain on sale and subsequent valuations of the Residual Interest. Variable Rate Embedded Floor Income is recognized as earned in servicing and securitization revenue. The decrease in Variable Rate Floor Income in 2003 versus 2002 is primarily due to the decline in Treasury bill and commercial paper rates from the July 1, 2001 reset of borrower rates, which resulted in $106 million of Variable Rate Floor Income earned in the first half of 2002. Treasury bill and commercial paper rates did not decline as steeply in the second half of 2002 or in 2003. The increase in Fixed Rate Floor 46 Income is primarily due to the increase in the average balance of Consolidation Loans, partially offset by slightly higher Treasury bill rates. Student Loan Floor Income Contracts The following table analyzes the ability of the FFELP student loans in our Managed student loan portfolio to earn Floor Income after December 31, 2004 and 2003. December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 Fixed Variable Fixed Variable borrower borrower borrower borrower (Dollars in billions) Rate Rate Total Rate Rate Total Student loans eligible to earn Floor Income: On balance sheet student loans $ 40.5 $ 14.0 $ 54.5 $ 26.7 $ 12.5 $ 39.2 Off balance sheet student loans 7.4 24.6 32.0 8.1 23.5 31.6 Managed student loans eligible to earn Floor Income 47.9 38.6 86.5 34.8 36.0 70.8 Less: Economically hedged Floor Income (27.8 ) (27.8 ) (14.7 ) (14.7 ) Net Managed student loans eligible to earn Floor Income $ 20.1 $ 38.6 $ 58.7 $ 20.1 $ 36.0 $ 56.1 Net Managed student loans earning Floor Income $ 2.4 $ $ 2.4 $ 16.6 $ 31.2 $ 47.8 The following table shows the average Managed balance of Consolidation Loans whose Fixed Rate Floor Income is economically hedged as of January 1, 2005 through the end of 2008 through Floor Income Contracts. These loans are both on and off balance sheet and the related hedges do not qualify as effective SFAS No. 133 hedges. (Dollars in billions) 2005 2006 2007 2008 Average balance of Consolidation Loans whose Floor Income is economically hedged (Managed Basis) $ 26 $ 24 $ 9 $ 8 Activity in the Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses As discussed in detail under CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES, the provision for student loan losses represents the periodic expense of maintaining an allowance sufficient to absorb losses, net of recoveries, inherent in the portfolio of Private Education Loans. 47 The following table summarizes changes in the allowance for Private Education Loan losses for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. Activity in Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses On Balance Sheet Off Balance Sheet Managed Basis Years Ended December 31, Years Ended December 31, Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002 Allowance at beginning of year $ 166 $ 181 $ 194 $ 93 $ 13 $ $ 259 $ 194 $ 194 Provision for loan losses 130 107 94 28 10 158 117 94 Other 21 (27 ) (1 ) 20 (27 ) Charge offs (110 ) (83 ) (76 ) (6 ) (116 ) (83 ) (76 ) Recoveries 14 11 9 14 11 9 Net charge offs (96 ) (72 ) (67 ) (6 ) (102 ) (72 ) (67 ) Balance before securitization of Private Education Loans 200 237 194 115 22 315 259 194 Reduction for securitization of Private Education Loans (28 ) (71 ) (13 ) 28 71 13 Allowance at end of year $ 172 $ 166 $ 181 $ 143 $ 93 $ 13 $ 315 $ 259 $ 194 Net charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment 3.57 % 2.59 % 2.40 % .22 % % % 1.92 % 1.85 % 2.25 % Allowance as a percentage of the ending total loan balance 3.07 % 3.57 % 3.38 % 2.31 % 2.37 % 1.93 % 2.67 % 3.02 % 3.22 % Allowance as a percentage of ending loans in repayment 6.05 % 6.50 % 6.05 % 4.27 % 4.99 % 3.50 % 5.08 % 5.86 % 5.77 % Allowance coverage of net charge offs 1.79 2.30 2.72 24.81 3.09 3.60 2.91 Average total loans $ 4,795 $ 5,018 $ 5,059 $ 5,495 $ 2,284 $ 139 $ 10,290 $ 7,303 $ 5,198 Ending total loans $ 5,592 $ 4,636 $ 5,356 $ 6,205 $ 3,928 $ 660 $ 11,797 $ 8,564 $ 6,016 Average loans in repayment $ 2,697 $ 2,772 $ 2,774 $ 2,611 $ 1,116 $ 182 $ 5,307 $ 3,888 $ 2,955 Ending loans in repayment $ 2,842 $ 2,551 $ 2,992 $ 3,352 $ 1,870 $ 364 $ 6,194 $ 4,421 $ 3,356 The allowance for Private Education Loan losses is an estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at the balance sheet date that will be charged off in subsequent periods. We estimate our losses using historical data from our Private Education Loan portfolios, extrapolations of FFELP loan loss data, current trends and relevant industry information. As our Private Education Loan portfolios continue to mature, more reliance is placed on our own historic Private Education Loan charge off and recovery data. We use this data in internally developed models to estimate losses, net of subsequent collections, projected to occur in the Private Education Loan portfolios. On Balance Sheet versus Managed Presentation All Private Education Loans are initially acquired on balance sheet. When we securitize Private Education Loans, we reduce the on balance sheet allowance for amounts previously provided for in the allowance and then provide for these loans in the Managed presentation only as they are no longer legally owned by the Company. When Private Education Loans in securitized trusts become 180 days delinquent, we typically exercise our contingent call option to repurchase these loans at par value out of the trust and record a loss for the difference in the par value paid and the fair market value of the loan at the time of purchase. If these loans reach the 212 day delinquency, a charge off for the remaining balance of the loan is triggered. On a Managed Basis, the losses recorded under GAAP at the time of repurchase of delinquent Private Education Loans are 48 considered charge offs when the delinquent Private Education Loans reach the 212 day charge off date. These charge offs are shown in the off balance sheet section in the above table. The off balance sheet allowance is increasing as more loans are securitized but is lower than the on balance sheet percentage when measured as a percentage of ending loans in repayment because of the different mix of loans on balance sheet and off balance sheet. Certain loan types with higher expected default rates, such as career training, have not yet been securitized. Additionally, a larger percentage of the off balance sheet loan borrowers are still in school status and not required to make payments on their loans. Once repayment begins, the allowance requirements increase to reflect the increased risk of loss as loans enter repayment. Managed Basis Private Education Loan Loss Allowance Discussion The increase in the provision for Managed Private Education Loans of $41 million from 2003 to 2004 is primarily due to the $2.3 billion increase in Managed Private Education Loans that have transitioned to out of school status over the prior year. For the year ended December 31, 2004, Private Education Loan charge offs increased by $33 million over the prior year, which is due primarily to the continued growth and maturity of loans in repayment. As discussed further below, while the delinquency and forbearance amounts fluctuate from quarter to quarter, they will increase with the growth in the repayment portfolio. We utilize the expertise of our collection organization, including our debt management operation, to minimize charge offs in our own portfolio and to increase recoveries on charged off loans. The allowance as a percentage of loans in repayment decreased year over year from 5.86 percent to 5.08 percent. This reduction is primarily attributable to the changing mix of the portfolio and the updates in our default assumptions in the third quarter of 2004. Delinquencies The table below presents our Private Education Loan delinquency trends as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. Delinquencies have the potential to adversely impact earnings through increased servicing and collection costs in the event the delinquent accounts charge off. On Balance Sheet Private Education Loan Delinquencies December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 2,787 $ 1,970 $ 2,171 Loans in forbearance(2) 166 236 285 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 2,555 89.9 % 2,268 88.9 % 2,776 92.8 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 124 4.4 115 4.5 102 3.4 Loans delinquent 61 90 days 56 2.0 62 2.4 43 1.4 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days 107 3.7 106 4.2 71 2.4 Total Private Education Loans in repayment 2,842 100 % 2,551 100.0 % 2,992 100 % Total Private Education Loans, gross 5,795 4,757 5,448 Private Education Loan unamortized discount (203 ) (121 ) (92 ) Total Private Education Loans 5,592 4,636 5,356 Private Education Loan allowance for losses (172 ) (166 ) (181 ) Private Education Loans, net $ 5,420 $ 4,470 $ 5,175 Percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 49.0 % 53.6 % 54.9 % Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 10.1 % 11.1 % 7.2 % 49 Off Balance Sheet Private Education Loan Delinquencies December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 2,622 $ 1,858 $ 222 Loans in forbearance(2) 334 255 80 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 3,191 95.2 % 1,796 96.0 % 350 96.2 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 84 2.5 39 2.1 7 1.9 Loans delinquent 61 90 days 28 .8 15 .8 3 .8 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days 49 1.5 20 1.1 4 1.1 Total Private Education Loans in repayment 3,352 100 % 1,870 100.0 % 364 100 % Total Private Education Loans, gross 6,308 3,983 666 Private Education Loan unamortized discount (103 ) (55 ) (6 ) Total Private Education Loans 6,205 3,928 660 Private Education Loan allowance for losses (143 ) (93 ) (13 ) Private Education Loans, net $ 6,062 $ 3,835 $ 647 Percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 53.1 % 46.9 % 54.7 % Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 4.8 % 4.0 % 3.8 % Managed Basis Private Education Loan Delinquencies December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 5,409 $ 3,828 $ 2,393 Loans in forbearance(2) 500 491 365 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 5,746 92.8 % 4,064 91.9 % 3,126 93.2 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 208 3.3 154 3.5 109 3.3 Loans delinquent 61 90 days 84 1.4 77 1.7 46 1.3 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days 156 2.5 126 2.9 75 2.2 Total Private Education Loans in repayment 6,194 100 % 4,421 100.0 % 3,356 100 % Total Private Education Loans, gross 12,103 8,740 6,114 Private Education Loan unamortized discount (306 ) (176 ) (98 ) Total Private Education Loans 11,797 8,564 6,016 Private Education Loan allowance for losses (315 ) (259 ) (194 ) Private Education Loans, net $ 11,482 $ 8,305 $ 5,822 Percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 51.2 % 50.6 % 54.9 % Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 7.2 % 8.1 % 6.8 % (1) Loans for borrowers who still may be attending school or engaging in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation. (2) Loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors, consistent with the established loan program servicing policies and procedures. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. 50 The improvement in the percentage of delinquent loans is primarily due to enhanced default efforts that commenced in the second quarter of 2004. Forbearance Managed Basis Private Education Loans Private Education Loans are made to parent and student borrowers by our lender partners in accordance with our underwriting policies. These loans generally supplement federally guaranteed student loans, which are subject to federal lending caps. Private Education Loans are not guaranteed or insured against any loss of principal or interest. Traditional student borrowers use the proceeds of these loans to obtain higher education, which increases the likelihood of obtaining employment at higher income levels than would be available without the additional education. As a result, the borrowers repayment capability improves between the time the loan is made and the time they enter the post education work force. We generally allow the loan repayment period on traditional Private Education Loans, except those generated by SLM Financial loans, to begin six to nine months after the student leaves school. This provides the borrower time to obtain a job to service his or her debt. For borrowers that need more time or experience other hardships, we permit additional payment deferments or partial payments (both referred to as forbearances) when we believe additional time will improve the borrowers ability to repay the loan. Our policy does not grant any reduction in the repayment obligation (principal or interest) but does allow the borrower to stop or reduce monthly payments for an agreed period of time. Forbearance is used most heavily immediately after the loan enters repayment. At December 31, 2004, approximately 90 percent of borrowers currently in forbearance have deferred their loan repayment less than 24 months. Further, approximately 70 percent have been in repayment less than 24 months. These borrowers are essentially extending their grace period as they transition to the workforce. Forbearance continues to be a positive collection tool for the Private Education Loans as we believe it can provide the borrower with sufficient time to obtain employment and income to support his or her obligation. We consider the potential impact of forbearance in the determination of the loan loss reserves. Loans in forbearance status decreased from 10.0 percent of loans in repayment and forbearance status at December 31, 2003 to 7.5 percent of loans in repayment and forbearance status at December 31, 2004. The decrease in the percentages of loans in forbearance status is primarily due to enhanced collection and default prevention efforts. The table below breaks down the Managed Private Education Loan portfolio loans in forbearance by the cumulative number of months of forbearance the borrower has used as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 respectively: December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Forbearance Forbearance Forbearance Balance % of Total Balance % of Total Balance % of Total Cumulative number of months borrower has used forbearance Less than 13 months $ 334 66 % $ 326 67 % $ 223 61 % 13 to 24 months 117 24 119 24 88 24 25 to 36 months 30 6 26 5 28 8 More than 36 months 19 4 20 4 26 7 Total $ 500 100 % $ 491 100 % $ 365 100 % 51 The tables below show the composition and status of the Managed Private Education Loan portfolio by number of months aged from the first date of repayment: Months since entering repayment After 1 to 24 25 to 48 More than Dec. 31, December 31, 2004 Months Months 48 Months 2004(1) Total Loans in school/grace/deferment $ $ $ $ 5,409 $ 5,409 Loans in forbearance 350 103 47 500 Loans in repayment current 3,228 1,401 1,117 5,746 Loans in repayment delinquent 31 60 days 110 59 39 208 Loans in repayment delinquent 61 90 days 43 26 15 84 Loans in repayment delinquent greater than 90 days 67 56 33 156 Total $ 3,798 $ 1,645 $ 1,251 $ 5,409 $ 12,103 Unamortized discount (306 ) Allowance for loan losses (315 ) Total Managed Private Education Loans, net $ 11,482 Months since entering repayment After 1 to 24 25 to 48 More than Dec. 31, December 31, 2003 Months Months 48 Months 2003(1) Total Loans in school/grace/deferment $ $ $ $ 3,828 $ 3,828 Loans in forbearance 342 100 49 491 Loans in repayment current 2,192 1,074 798 4,064 Loans in repayment delinquent 31 60 days 75 46 33 154 Loans in repayment delinquent 61 90 days 34 27 16 77 Loans in repayment delinquent greater than 90 days 48 42 36 126 Total $ 2,691 $ 1,289 $ 932 $ 3,828 $ 8,740 Unamortized discount (176 ) Allowance for loan losses (259 ) Total Managed Private Education Loans, net $ 8,305 52 Months since entering repayment After 1 to 24 25 to 48 More than Dec. 31, December 31, 2002 Months Months 48 Months 2002(1) Total Loans in school/grace/deferment $ $ $ $ 2,393 $ 2,393 Loans in forbearance 239 75 51 365 Loans in repayment current 1,413 798 915 3,126 Loans in repayment delinquent 31 60 days 43 23 43 109 Loans in repayment delinquent 61 90 days 15 13 18 46 Loans in repayment delinquent greater than 90 days 17 19 39 75 Total $ 1,727 $ 928 $ 1,066 $ 2,393 $ 6,114 Unamortized discount (98 ) Allowance for loan losses (194 ) Total Managed Private Education Loans, net $ 5,822 (1) Includes all loans in school/grace/deferment. Allowance for FFELP Student Loan Losses Effective for a renewable one year period beginning on October 19, 2004, Sallie Mae, Inc., which includes the Companys student loan servicing division (Sallie Mae Servicing), was designated as an Exceptional Performer by ED in recognition of meeting certain performance standards set by ED in servicing FFELP loans. As a result of this designation, the Company receives 100 percent reimbursement on default claims on federally guaranteed student loans that are serviced by Sallie Mae Servicing for a period of at least 270 days before the date of default. We are entitled to receive this benefit as long as we remain in compliance with the required servicing standards, which are assessed on an annual and quarterly basis through compliance audits and other criteria. The Exceptional Performer Designation also applies to all FFELP loans that we own but are serviced by other service providers with the Exceptional Performer Designation. At December 31, 2004, approximately 93 percent of our Managed federally insured loans are no longer subject to Risk Sharing. As a result of this designation, in the third quarter of 2004, we reduced the balance in the on balance sheet allowance for loan losses by $33 million and reduced the Managed Risk Sharing allowance for loan losses by $63 million. Other Income, Net The following table summarizes the components of other income, net, for our Lending business segment for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Gains on student loan securitizations $ 375 $ 744 $ 338 Servicing and securitization revenue 561 667 839 Losses on securities, net (49 ) (10 ) (2 ) Derivative market value adjustment 849 (238 ) (1,082 ) Other income 163 126 110 Total other income, net $ 1,899 $ 1,289 $ 203 53 Gains on Student Loan Securitizations and Servicing and Securitization Revenue Gains on sales of student loans to securitizes trusts and servicing and securitization revenue, the ongoing revenue from securitized loan pools, are discussed in detail in LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Securitization Activities. Losses on Securities, Net The increase in losses on securities, net, versus the prior years is primarily due to the $27 million impairment of the leveraged lease portfolio recorded in the third quarter of 2004. The aircraft financing business for traditional airlines continues to be adversely affected by the slowdown in the commercial aircraft industry, higher fuel costs and increased competition from new discount carriers. In recognition of these trends and the deteriorating financial condition of Delta Airlines in particular, we recorded the leveraged lease impairment noted above. At December 31, 2004, we had remaining investments in leveraged and direct financing leases, net of impairments, totaling $169 million that are general obligations of two commercial airlines and Federal Express Corporation. Based on an analysis of the potential losses on certain leveraged leases plus the increase in incremental tax obligations related to forgiveness of debt obligations and or the taxable gain on the sale of the aircraft, our remaining after tax accounting exposure to the two commercial airlines and Federal Express Corporation totaled $80 million at December 31, 2004. Derivative Market Value Adjustment See ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Derivative Accounting. Other Income Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Late fees $ 94 $ 65 $ 56 Gains on sales of mortgages and other loan fees 22 29 13 Other 47 32 41 Total other income $ 163 $ 126 $ 110 When compared to the prior year, other income in 2004 benefited from a $29 million increase in late fees due to higher loan volume and an update in our estimate of uncollected late fees in the second quarter of 2004. Gains on sales of mortgages and other loan fees decreased by $7 million from 2003 to 2004. The decrease was primarily due to higher interest rates causing a slowdown in mortgage refinancings. Gains on sales of mortgages and other loan fees increased by $16 million from 2002 to 2003. This increase was due to the acquisition of Pioneer Mortgage in 2003 and to lower interest rates causing a surge in mortgage refinancings. 54 Student Loan Acquisitions In 2004, 78 percent of our Managed student loan acquisitions (exclusive of loans acquired through business acquisitions) were originated through our Preferred Channel. The following tables summarize the components of our student loan acquisition activity for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. December 31, 2004 FFELP Private Total Preferred Channel $ 12,756 $ 3,982 $ 16,738 Other commitment clients 368 45 413 Spot purchases 1,804 4 1,808 Consolidations from third parties 2,609 2,609 Acquisitions from off balance sheet securitized trusts, primarily consolidations 5,554 5,554 Acquisition of Southwest Student Services 4,776 4 4,780 Acquisition of Student Loan Financing Association 1,435 1,435 Capitalized interest and deferred origination fees 1,398 (2 ) 1,396 Total on balance sheet student loan acquisitions 30,700 4,033 34,733 Consolidations to SLM Corporation from off balance sheet securitized trusts (5,554 ) (5,554 ) Capitalized interest and other off balance sheet securitized trusts 565 172 737 Total Managed student loan acquisitions $ 25,711 $ 4,205 $ 29,916 December 31, 2003 FFELP Private Total Preferred Channel $ 10,884 $ 2,901 $ 13,785 Other commitment clients 344 33 377 Spot purchases 864 2 866 Consolidations from third parties 2,158 92 2,250 Acquisitions from off balance sheet securitized trusts, primarily consolidations 6,156 6,156 Capitalized interest and deferred origination fees 1,024 16 1,040 Acquisition of AMS 1,246 177 1,423 Total on balance sheet student loan acquisitions 22,676 3,221 25,897 Consolidations to SLM Corporation from off balance sheet securitized trusts (6,156 ) (6,156 ) Capitalized interest and other off balance sheet securitized trusts 842 79 921 Total Managed student loan acquisitions $ 17,362 $ 3,300 $ 20,662 55 December 31, 2002 FFELP Private Total Preferred Channel $ 9,261 $ 2,132 $ 11,393 Other commitment clients 428 35 463 Spot purchases 924 7 931 Consolidations from third parties 1,938 1,938 Acquisitions from off balance sheet securitized trusts, primarily consolidations 4,121 4,121 Capitalized interest and deferred origination fees 1,073 (4 ) 1,069 Total on balance sheet student loan acquisitions 17,745 2,170 19,915 Consolidations to SLM Corporation from off balance sheet securitized trusts (4,121 ) (4,121 ) Capitalized interest and other off balance sheet securitized trusts 721 10 731 Total Managed student loan acquisitions $ 14,345 $ 2,180 $ 16,525 Preferred Channel Originations In 2004, we originated $18.0 billion in student loan volume through our Preferred Channel, an 18 percent increase over the $15.2 billion originated in 2003. In 2004, we grew the Sallie Mae brand Preferred Channel Originations by 34 percent and our own brands now constitute 32 percent of our Preferred Channel Originations, up from 28 percent in 2003. The pipeline of loans that we currently service and are committed to purchase was $7.2 billion and $6.6 billion at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The following tables further break down our Preferred Channel Originations by type of loan and source. Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Preferred Channel Originations Type of Loan Stafford $ 11,383 $ 10,077 $ 8,537 PLUS 2,303 1,882 1,482 Total FFELP 13,686 11,959 10,019 Private 4,307 3,270 2,352 Total $ 17,993 $ 15,229 $ 12,371 Preferred Channel Originations Source Sallie Mae brands $ 5,670 $ 4,233 $ 3,082 Lender partners 12,323 10,996 9,289 $ 17,993 $ 15,229 $ 12,371 56 The following table summarizes the activity in our Managed portfolio of student loans for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Beginning balance $ 88,789 $ 78,124 $ 71,726 Acquisitions, including capitalized interest 29,916 20,662 16,525 Repayments, claims, and other (8,548 ) (7,517 ) (7,672 ) Charge offs to reserves and securitization trusts (135 ) (108 ) (96 ) Loan sales (479 ) (38 ) Loans consolidated from SLM Corporation (2,105 ) (2,334 ) (2,359 ) Ending balance $ 107,438 $ 88,789 $ 78,124 Operating Expenses The following table summarizes the components of operating expenses for our Lending business segment for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Servicing and acquisition expenses $ 205 $ 188 $ 146 General and administrative expenses 228 221 199 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 27 22 22 Loss on GSE debt extinguishment and defeasance 221 Total operating expenses $ 681 $ 431 $ 367 Operating expenses include costs incurred to service our Managed student loan portfolio and acquire student loans, as well as other general and administrative expenses and the amortization of acquired intangible assets. For the year ended 2004, we recognized a $221 million loss related to the repurchase and defeasance of approximately $3.0 billion of GSE debt in connection with the Wind Down of the GSE. 2004 versus 2003 Operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2004 were $681 million versus $431 million in the prior year. The increase versus the prior year is mainly due to the growth in the number of accounts serviced and to the general and administrative expenses of our recent acquisitions in the lending segment: Southwest Student Services Corporation ($5 million) which the Company acquired in October 2004, and a full year of expenses of AMS ($22 million) acquired in the fourth quarter of 2003. Student loan servicing expenses as a percentage of the average balance of student loans serviced was 0.15 percent, and 0.16 percent for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 2003 versus 2002 The $42 million increase in servicing and acquisition costs for the year ended December 31, 2003 versus 2002 is mainly attributable to an increase in mortgage operating expenses due to the acquisition of Pioneer Mortgage in the second quarter of 2003 and to increased servicing expenses consistent with the growth in the business. In addition, in the first quarter of 2003, we recognized $9 million for servicing adjustments related to an underbilling error. Student loan servicing expenses as a percentage of the average balance of student loans serviced was 0.16 percent and 0.20 percent for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. 57 DEBT MANAGEMENT OPERATIONS (DMO) BUSINESS SEGMENT Through the five operating units that comprise our DMO business segment, we provide a wide range of accounts receivable and collections services including defaulted student loan portfolio management services, contingency collections services for student loans and other asset classes, student loan default aversion services, and accounts receivable management and collection for purchased portfolios of receivables that have been charged off by their original creditors. The majority of our revenues are generated through our contingency fee business in which we provide default management services to guarantor agencies, colleges and universities, ED, and other consumer credit companies. In the purchased receivables business, we focus on all types of consumer debt with an emphasis on charged off credit card receivables. We purchase these portfolios at a substantial discount to their face value. We then use both our internal collections operations and external collections efforts to maximize the recovery on these receivables. Effectively pricing the portfolio is a major success factor in the purchased receivables business. We conduct a quantitative and qualitative analysis using our proprietary models to appropriately price each portfolio to yield a return consistent with our earnings hurdles. We account for our investments in charged off receivables in accordance with Practice Bulletin 6, Amortization of Discounts on Certain Acquired Loans, whereby we establish static pools of relatively homogeneous accounts and initially record them at cost. We then recognize income each month based on each static pools effective interest rate. Monthly cash collections are all allocated to revenue and principal reduction based on the estimated internal rate of return. The static pools are tested monthly for impairment. Revenues from USA Funds represented 56 percent, 65 percent, and 62 percent, respectively, of total DMO revenue in 2004, 2003, and 2002. We expect the percentage of revenue generated from services provided to USA Funds to decrease considerably in 2005 due primarily to the impact of our acquisition of AFS and the inclusion of the purchased receivables business revenues. At December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, the DMO business segment had total assets of $519 million, $272 million, and $268 million, respectively. The following table includes the results of operations for our DMO business segment. Condensed Statements of Income Year Ended December 31, % Increase (Decrease) 2004 2003 2002 2004 vs. 2003 2003 vs. 2002 Fee income and collections revenue $ 340 $ 259 $ 186 31 % 39 % Operating expenses 166 131 112 27 17 Income before income taxes and minority interest in net earnings of subsidiaries 174 128 74 36 73 Income taxes 63 44 26 43 69 Income before minority interest in net earnings of subsidiaries 111 84 48 32 75 Minority interest in net earnings of subsidiaries 1 100 Net income $ 110 $ 84 $ 48 31 % 75 % Fee Income and Collections Revenue Fee income and collections revenue increased $81 million or 31 percent to $340 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, an $81 million or 31 percent increase over 2003. In 2004, we earned $302 million in fee income generated by our contingency collections services, a 17 percent increase over 2003. The growth in our contingency fee business is due primarily to an increase of $26 million or 14 percent in fees earned from guarantor agencies for both default collection and portfolio management. Our 2004 growth rate was slowed by the greater emphasis on rehabilitating defaulted FFELP loans versus consolidating them with other lenders. This strategy ultimately produces higher margins but initially it lengthens the revenue cycle. 58 We earned $38 million of collections revenue from the purchased portfolios of AFS for the period from September 15, 2004 to December 31, 2004. During this period, AFS acquired charged off consumer receivables portfolios with an aggregate face amount of $426 million at a cost of $19 million. Operating Expenses The following table summarizes the components of operating expenses for the DMO business segment for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 General and administrative expenses $ 161 $ 128 $ 109 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 5 3 3 Total operating expenses $ 166 $ 131 $ 112 General and administrative expenses increased by $33 million, or 26 percent, to $161 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. A significant portion of this increase is attributable to the inclusion of AFS expenses. The increase in DMO contingency fee expenses is consistent with the growth in revenue and accounts serviced, as a high percentage of DMO expenses are variable contributing to our stable margins. We continue to make substantial investments in the infrastructure of the DMO business to accommodate current and future growth and we believe this will provide significant operating efficiencies in the future. CORPORATE AND OTHER BUSINESS SEGMENT At December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, the Corporate and Other business segment had total assets of $524 million, $447 million, and $509 million, respectively. The following table includes the results of operations for our Corporate and Other business segment. Condensed Statements of Income Year Ended December 31, % Increase (Decrease) 2004 2003 2002 2004 vs. 2003 2003 vs. 2002 Fee income $ 120 $ 128 $ 106 (6 )% 21 % Other income 126 123 110 2 12 Operating expenses 269 233 211 15 10 Income (loss) before income taxes (23 ) 18 5 (228 ) 260 Income taxes (6 ) 6 2 (200 ) 200 Net income (loss) $ (17 ) $ 12 $ 3 (242 )% 300 % Fee and Other Income The following table summarizes the components of fee and other income for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Guarantor servicing fees $ 120 $ 128 $ 106 Loan servicing fees 55 58 57 Other income 71 65 53 Total fee and other income $ 246 $ 251 $ 216 59 USA Funds represented 85 percent, 86 percent, and 82 percent, respectively, of guarantor servicing fees and 8 percent, 1 percent, and 14 percent, respectively, of revenues associated with other products and services for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002. 2004 versus 2003 The $8 million decrease in guarantor servicing fees in 2004 versus the prior year is due to a $13 million decrease in issuance fees caused by the reduction in the issuance fee from 65 basis points to 40 basis points, which was partially offset by higher account maintenance fees. The increase in other income in 2004 versus 2003 is primarily due to a $14 million fee received from Bank One in the third quarter of 2004 in connection with the termination of the marketing services agreement, $13 million in fees earned on the tuition payment plan business that was acquired in connection with the November 2003 AMS acquisition, and $9 million in higher marketing servicing fees. Items that affected 2003 that did not recur in 2004 were a $42 million gain recognized in the fourth quarter of 2003 for the sale of our prior headquarters building, partially offset by an $18 million deferral in 2003 of previously recognized income earned for performing information technology enhancements. 2003 versus 2002 The growth in the guarantor servicing business is due to the growth in accounts serviced for our largest customer, USA Funds. The increase in other income in 2003 was due to a $42 million gain on the sale of our headquarters building, partially offset by a deferral of previously recognized income earned from performing information technology enhancements. Operating Expenses The following table summarizes the components of operating expenses for the Corporate and Other business segment for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Servicing and acquisition expenses $ 34 $ 36 $ 44 General and administrative expenses 231 195 165 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 4 2 2 Total operating expenses $ 269 $ 233 $ 211 Operating expenses include costs incurred to service loans for unrelated third parties and to perform guarantor servicing on behalf of guarantor agencies, and general and administrative expenses associated with these businesses. Operating expenses also include unallocated corporate overhead expenses totaling $151 million. These costs include centralized headquarters functions such as executive management, accounting and finance, human resources and marketing. Our corporate overhead also includes a portion of information technology expenses related to these functions. 2004 versus 2003 The 18 percent increase in general and administrative expenses from 2003 to 2004 is primarily due to the growth in the business and additional administrative costs related to compliance with the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. We also incurred additional expenses related to AMS, acquired in December of 2003, primarily to manage the tuition payment plan product. 2003 versus 2002 The $30 million increase in general and administrative expenses from 2002 to 2003 is primarily attributed to a contribution to the Sallie Mae Fund. 60 FEDERAL AND STATE TAXES The Company is subject to federal and state income taxes, while the GSE was exempt from all state and local income taxes. Our effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 was 25 percent, 36 percent and 35 percent, respectively. The effective tax rate for the period ended December 31, 2004 reflects the full year permanent impact of the exclusion of the gains on equity forward contracts recognized under SFAS No. 150 adopted in the third quarter of 2003. ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES In accordance with the Rules and Regulations of the SEC, we prepare financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In addition to evaluating the Companys GAAP based financial information, management, credit rating agencies, lenders and analysts also evaluate the Company on certain non GAAP performance measures that we refer to as core cash measures. While core cash measures are not a substitute for reported results under GAAP, we rely on core cash measures in operating our business because we believe they provide additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely assessed by management. Our pro forma core cash measures are the primary financial performance measures used by management to evaluate performance and to allocate resources. Accordingly, financial information is reported to management on a core cash basis by reportable segment. In Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements, Segment Reporting, we provide a consolidated statement of income by reportable segment on a core cash basis, as these are the measures used regularly by our chief operating decision makers. Our core cash measures are used in developing our financial plans and tracking results, and also in establishing corporate performance targets and determining incentive compensation. Management believes this information provides additional insight into the financial performance of the Companys core business activities. Our core cash measures are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Core cash measures reflect only current period adjustments to GAAP as described below. Accordingly, the Companys core cash measures presentation does not represent another comprehensive basis of accounting. A more detailed discussion of the differences between GAAP and core cash measures follows. 1) Securitization: Under GAAP, certain securitization transactions are accounted for as sales of assets. Under core cash, we present all securitization transactions as long term non recourse financings. The upfront gains on sale from securitization transactions as well as ongoing servicing and securitization revenue presented in accordance with GAAP are excluded from the core cash measures and replaced by the interest income, provision for loan losses, and interest expense as they are earned or incurred on the securitization loans. We also exclude transactions with our off balance sheet trusts which would be considered intercompany on a Managed Basis. The following table summarizes core cash securitization adjustments for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Core cash securitization adjustments: Net interest income on securitized loans, after provisions for losses $ 1,065 $ 1,104 $ 895 Gains on student loan securitizations (375 ) (744 ) (338 ) Servicing and securitization revenue (561 ) (667 ) (839 ) Intercompany transactions with off balance sheet trusts 23 7 (9 ) Total core cash securitization adjustments $ 152 $ (300 ) $ (291 ) 2) Derivative Accounting: Core cash measures exclude the periodic unrealized gains and losses caused primarily by the one sided mark to market derivative valuations prescribed by SFAS No. 133 and recognize the economic effect of these hedges, which results in any cash paid or received being recognized 61 ratably as an expense or revenue over the hedged items life. We also exclude the gain or loss on equity forward contracts that are required to be accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 133 as derivatives and are marked to market through earnings. SFAS No. 133 requires that changes in the fair value of derivative instruments be recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria, as specified by SFAS No. 133, are met. We believe that our derivatives are effective economic hedges, and as such, are a critical element of our interest rate risk management strategy. However, some of our derivatives, primarily Floor Income Contracts, certain Eurodollar futures contracts, certain basis swaps and equity forward contracts (discussed in detail below), do not qualify for hedge treatment as defined by SFAS No. 133, and the stand alone derivative must be marked to market in the income statement with no consideration for the corresponding change in fair value of the hedged item. The derivative market value adjustment is primarily caused by interest rate volatility, changing credit spreads and change in our stock prices during the period and the volume and term of derivatives not receiving hedge treatment. Core cash measures exclude the periodic unrealized gains and losses primarily caused by the one sided derivative valuations, and recognize the economic effect of these hedges, which results in any cash paid or received being recognized ratably as an expense or revenue over the hedged items life. Our Floor Income Contracts are written options which must meet more stringent requirements than other hedging relationships to achieve hedge effectiveness under SFAS No. 133. Specifically, our Floor Income Contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment because the paydown of principal of the student loans underlying the Floor Income embedded in those student loans does not exactly match the change in the notional amount of our written Floor Income Contracts. Under SFAS No. 133, the upfront payment is deemed a liability and changes in fair value are recorded through income throughout the life of the contract. The change in the value of Floor Income Contracts is caused by changing interest rates that cause the amount of Floor Income earned on the underlying student loans and transferred to the counterparties to vary. This is economically offset by the change in value of the student loan portfolio earning Floor Income but that offsetting change in value is not recognized under SFAS No. 133. We believe the Floor Income Contracts are economic hedges because they effectively fix the amount of Floor Income earned over the contract period, thus eliminating the timing and uncertainty that changes in interest rates can have on Floor Income for that period. Prior to SFAS No. 133, we accounted for Floor Income Contracts as hedges and amortized the upfront cash compensation ratably over the lives of the contracts. Basis swaps are used to convert the floating rate debt from one interest rate index to another to better match the interest rate characteristics of the assets financed by that debt. We primarily use basis swaps to change the index of our fixed rate and LIBOR based debt to better match the cash flows of our student loan assets that are primarily indexed to a commercial paper, Prime or Treasury bill index. SFAS No. 133 requires that the change in the cash flows of the hedge effectively offset both the change in the cash flows of the asset and the change in the cash flows of the liability. Our basis swaps hedge variable interest rate risk, however they do not meet this effectiveness test because student loans can earn at either a variable or a fixed interest rate depending on market interest rates. We also have basis swaps that do not meet the SFAS No. 133 effectiveness test that economically hedge off balance sheet instruments. As a result, these swaps are recorded at fair value with subsequent changes in value reflected in the income statement. Generally, a decrease in current interest rates and the respective forward interest rate curves results in an unrealized loss related to our written Floor Income Contracts. We will experience unrealized gains/losses related to our basis swaps, if the two underlying indices (and related forward curve) do not move in parallel. Under SFAS No. 150, equity forward contracts that allow a net settlement option either in cash or the Companys stock are required to be accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 133 as derivatives. As a result, we account for our equity forward contracts as derivatives in accordance with SFAS No. 133 and mark them to market through earnings. They do not qualify as effective SFAS No. 133 hedges as a requirement to achieve hedge accounting is the hedged item must impact net income, and the settlement of these contracts through the purchase of our own stock does not impact net income. 62 The table below quantifies the adjustments for derivative accounting under SFAS No. 133 on our net income for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 when compared with the accounting principles employed in all years prior to the SFAS No. 133 implementation. Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 SFAS No. 133 income statement items: Derivative market value adjustment in other income $ (849 ) $ 238 $ 1,082 Less: Realized derivative market value transactions (713 ) (739 ) (878 ) Unrealized derivative market value adjustment (1,562 ) (501 ) 204 Other pre SFAS No. 133 accounting adjustments 9 (1 ) (4 ) Total net impact of SFAS No. 133 derivative accounting $ (1,553 ) $ (502 ) $ 200 Reclassification of Realized Derivative Transactions SFAS No. 133, requires net settlement income/expense on derivatives and realized gains/losses related to derivative dispositions (collectively referred to as realized derivative transactions) that do not qualify as hedges under SFAS No. 133 to be recorded in a separate income statement line item below net interest income. The table below summarizes the realized derivative transactions and where they are reclassified to on a core cash basis for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Reclassification of realized derivative market value adjustments: Net settlement expense on Floor Income Contracts reclassified to net interest income $ (562 ) $ (603 ) $ (540 ) Net settlement income/expense on interest rate swaps reclassified to net interest income (88 ) (22 ) (84 ) Realized gain/loss on closed Eurodollar futures contracts and terminated derivative contracts reclassified to other income (63 ) (114 ) (254 ) Total reclassifications of realized derivative transactions (713 ) (739 ) (878 ) Add: Unrealized derivative market value adjustment 1,562 501 (204 ) Derivative market value adjustment as reported $ 849 $ (238 ) $ (1,082 ) 3) Floor Income: The timing and amount (if any) of Floor Income earned is uncertain and in excess of expected spreads and, therefore, we exclude such income when it is not economically hedged from core cash measures. We employ derivatives, primarily Floor Income Contracts and futures, to economically hedge Floor Income. As discussed above under Derivative Accounting, these derivatives do not qualify as effective accounting hedges and therefore are marked to market through the derivative market value adjustment with no offsetting mark of the economically hedged items. For core cash measures, we reverse the fair value adjustments on the Floor Income Contracts and futures economically hedging Floor Income and include the amortization of net premiums received (net of Eurodollar futures contracts realized gains or losses) in 63 income. The following table summarizes the Floor Income adjustments for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002. Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Core cash Floor Income adjustments: Floor Income earned on Managed loans, net of payments on Floor Income Contracts $ (88 ) $ (292 ) $ (474 ) Amortization of net premiums on Floor Income Contracts and futures in net interest income 194 161 134 Net losses related to closed Eurodollar futures contracts economically hedging Floor Income 50 14 202 Losses on sales of derivatives hedging Floor Income 94 46 Total core cash Floor Income adjustments $ 156 $ (23 ) $ (92 ) 4) Other items: We exclude amortization of acquired intangibles. For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the pre tax effect of these non GAAP performance measures were as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Non GAAP Performance Measures: Net impact of securitization accounting $ 152 $ (300 ) $ (291 ) Net impact of derivative accounting(1) (1,553 ) (502 ) 200 Net impact of Floor Income 156 (23 ) (92 ) Amortization of acquired intangibles 36 27 27 Total non GAAP performance measures $ (1,209 ) $ (798 ) $ (156 ) (1) In addition to the derivative accounting adjustment noted here, for the year ended December 31, 2003, upon the adoption of SFAS No. 150, adjustments also included the reversal of a gain of $130 million which was reflected as a cumulative effect of accounting change in the GAAP consolidated statements of income. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our DMO and Corporate and Other business segments are not capital intensive businesses and as such only an immaterial amount of debt and equity capital is included in these segments. Therefore, the following liquidity and capital resource discussion is concentrated on our Lending business segment. We depend on the debt capital markets to support our business plan. We have developed deep and diverse funding sources to ensure continued access to funding now that the GSE has been dissolved. Our biggest funding challenge going forward is to maintain cost effective liquidity to fund the growth in the Managed portfolio of student loans as well as to refinance previously securitized loans when borrowers choose to refinance their loans through a Consolidation Loan with the Company. At the same time, we must maintain earnings spreads and control interest rate risk to preserve earnings growth. Our main source of funding is student loan securitizations and in 2004, we securitized $33.8 billion in student loans in thirteen transactions (including the amount funded through our asset backed commercial paper program transaction) versus $30.1 billion in sixteen transactions in 2003. Our securitizations backed by FFELP loans are unique securities in the asset backed class as they are backed by student loans with an explicit guarantee on 100 percent of principal and interest. This guarantee is subject to service compliance. As evidenced by the 2003 and 2004 volume, we have built a highly liquid and deep market for student loan securitizations by broadening our investor base worldwide. Securitizations now comprise 66 percent of our financing, versus 58 percent at December 31, 2003. 64 In addition to securitizations, we also significantly increased and diversified our sources of funds through the issuance of $15 billion in SLM Corporation term, unsecured debt in 2004. In 2003 and 2004, we strategically introduced several new SLM Corporation long term issuances to further diversify our funding sources and substantially increased our fixed income investor base. In total, at December 31, 2004, on balance sheet debt, exclusive of on balance sheet securitizations and on balance sheet secured indentured trusts, totaled $33.3 billion versus $20.3 billion at December 31, 2003. Without the GSE, stand alone liquidity at SLM Corporation is very important to enable us to effectively fund our student loan acquisitions and operations. Our main sources of liquidity include our $5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, cash and short term investments, a $5 billion revolving asset backed commercial paper program and our portfolio of readily securitizable student loans, particularly the government guaranteed portion of the portfolio. In addition to liquidity, a major objective when financing our business is to minimize interest rate risk through match funding of our assets and liabilities. Generally, on a pooled basis to the extent practicable, we match the interest rate and reset characteristics of our Managed assets and liabilities. In this process we use derivative financial instruments extensively to reduce our interest rate and foreign currency exposure. This interest rate risk management helps us to achieve a stable student loan spread irrespective of the interest rate environment. (See also RISKS Interest Rate Risk Management below.) The following tables present the ending and average balances and average interest rates of our Managed borrowings for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. The average interest rates include derivatives that are economically hedging the underlying debt, but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133. (See ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Reclassification of Realized Derivative Transactions.) Years Ended December 31, 2004 Ending Balance 2003 Ending Balance 2002 Ending Balance Total Total Total Managed Managed Managed Short Term Long Term Basis Short Term Long Term Basis Short Term Long Term Basis GSE borrowings (unsecured) $ $ $ $ 16,678 $ 3,414 $ 20,092 $ 23,332 $ 15,298 $ 38,630 Non GSE borrowings (unsecured) 1,830 31,465 33,295 1,855 18,472 20,327 1,290 5,795 7,085 Indentured trusts (on balance sheet) 377 6,873 7,250 134 1,362 1,496 5 1,149 1,154 Securitizations (on balance sheet) 35,769 35,769 16,346 16,346 Securitizations (off balance sheet) 43,814 43,814 40,606 40,606 37,262 37,262 Total $ 2,207 $ 117,921 $ 120,128 $ 18,667 $ 80,200 $ 98,867 $ 24,627 $ 59,504 $ 84,131 Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Average Average Average Average Average Average Balance Rate Balance Rate Balance Rate GSE borrowings (unsecured) $ 9,967 2.21 % $ 32,847 1.80 % $ 44,141 2.33 % Non GSE borrowings (unsecured) 28,241 2.29 13,305 2.01 4,223 2.88 Indentured trusts (on balance sheet) 2,168 2.47 1,221 2.68 1,558 2.97 Securitizations (on balance sheet) 28,354 1.79 6,026 1.40 Securitizations (off balance sheet) 42,606 2.09 39,524 1.79 32,385 2.57 Total $ 111,336 2.08 % $ 92,923 1.81 % $ 82,307 2.47 % 65 Unsecured On Balance Sheet Financing Activities The following table presents the senior unsecured credit ratings on our debt from major rating agencies. S&P Moodys Fitch Short term unsecured debt A 1 P 1 F 1+ Long term unsecured debt A A2 A+ The table below presents our unsecured on balance sheet funding by funding source for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. Debt Issued For the Years Outstanding at Ended December 31, December 31, 2004 2003 2004 2003 Commercial paper $ 272 $ 8,285 $ $ Convertible debentures 1,980 1,988 1,983 Retail medium term notes (EdNotes) 509 356 863 357 Foreign currency denominated(1) 4,179 597 4,780 598 Extendible notes 2,496 1,747 4,246 1,747 Global notes 7,629 9,844 18,686 11,549 Medium term notes 2,732 4,093 Total $ 15,085 $ 22,809 $ 33,295 $ 20,327 (1) All foreign currency denominated notes are swapped back to U.S. dollars. In 2003, we issued approximately $2 billion Contingently Convertible Debentures (Co Cos). The CoCos are convertible, under certain conditions, into shares of SLM common stock at an initial conversion price of $65.98. The investors generally can only convert the debentures if the Companys common stock has appreciated to 130 percent of the conversion price (or $85.77) for a prescribed period, or if we call the debentures. Per EITF No. 04 8, The Effect of Contingently Convertible Debt on Diluted Earnings per Share, we have included the potential dilutive effect of the Companys outstanding Co Cos in diluted earnings per share calculations for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. Securitization Activities Securitization Program Our FFELP Stafford, Private Education Loan and certain Consolidation Loan securitizations are structured such that they meet the sale criteria of SFAS No. 140 by using a two step transaction with a qualifying special purpose entity (QSPE) that legally isolates the transferred assets from the Company, even in the event of bankruptcy. The holders of the beneficial interests issued by the QSPE are not constrained from pledging or exchanging their interests and we do not maintain effective control over the transferred assets. In all of our off balance sheet securitizations, we retain the right to receive the cash flows from the securitized student loans in excess of cash flows required to pay interest and principal on the bonds issued by the trust and servicing and administration fees. Prior to 2003, all of our securitization structures were off balance sheet transactions. In certain 2003 and 2004 Consolidation Loan securitization structures, we hold rights that can affect the remarketing of the bonds, such that these trusts did not qualify as QSPEs and as a result were required to be accounted for on balance sheet as variable interest entities (VIEs). These securitization structures were developed to broaden and diversify the investor base for Consolidation Loan securitizations by allowing us to issue bonds with non amortizing, fixed rate and foreign currency denominated tranches. As of December 31, 2004, we had $31.5 billion of securitized student loans in on balance sheet securitization trusts. These securitizations are included as financings in the table below. 66 In off balance sheet securitizations that qualify as sales, we recognize a gain on the sale, which is calculated as the difference between the allocated cost basis of the assets sold and the relative fair value of the assets received. The carrying value of the student loan portfolio being securitized includes the applicable accrued interest, unamortized student loan premiums, loan loss reserves and borrower benefits reserves. The fair value of the Residual Interest is determined using a discounted cash flow methodology using assumptions discussed in more detail below. We recognize no gain or loss or servicing and securitization revenue associated with on balance sheet securitizations. The following table summarizes our securitization activity for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. Those securitizations listed as sales are off balance sheet transactions and those listed as financings remain on balance sheet. Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Pre Pre Pre No. of Amt Tax Gain No. of Amt Tax Gain No. of Amt Tax Gain Trans. Securitized Gain % Trans. Securitized Gain % Trans. Securitized Gain % FFELP Stafford loans 4 $ 10,002 $ 134 1.3 % 4 $ 5,772 $ 73 1.3 % 7 $ 11,033 $ 101 .9 % Consolidation Loans 2 4,256 433 10.2 1 1,976 194 9.8 Private Education Loans 2 2,535 241 9.5 3 3,503 238 6.8 1 690 43 6.2 Total securitizations sales 6 12,537 $ 375 3.0 % 9 13,531 $ 744 5.5 % 9 13,699 $ 338 2.5 % Asset backed commercial paper(1) 1 4,186 Consolidation Loans 6 17,124 7 16,592 Total securitizations financings 7 21,310 7 16,592 Total securitizations 13 $ 33,847 16 $ 30,123 9 $ 13,699 (1) In the second quarter of 2004, we closed our first asset backed commercial paper program. The program is a revolving 364 day multi seller conduit that allows us to borrow up to $5 billion through the sale of student loans subject to annual extensions. We may purchase student loans out of this trust at our discretion and as a result, the trust does not qualify as a QSPE and is accounted for on balance sheet as a VIE. The increase in the Private Education Loan securitization gain percentage in 2004 is due to the underlying student loans having higher spreads and the related bonds having a lower funding cost due primarily to the maturing of the Private Education Loan marketplace. The decrease in the overall gain as a percentage of loans securitized in 2004 versus 2003 is mainly due to the 2004 Consolidation Loan securitizations not qualifying for off balance sheet treatment. Off balance sheet Consolidation Loan securitizations generally have higher gains than FFELP securitizations due to higher Embedded Fixed Rate Floor Income and longer average lives. The higher gain percentage in 2003 versus 2002 is due to the higher level of both Consolidation Loan and Private Education Loan securitizations. In 2004 and 2003, we had record levels of securitization transactions due to funding new student loan purchases, record levels of loan consolidation and the refinancing of GSE debt in connection with the Wind Down. In 2005, we expect our securitization activity to decline and correlate with the volume of student loan purchases. Long Term Liquidity Risk With the dissolution of the GSE, our long term funding, credit spread and liquidity exposure to the corporate and asset backed capital markets has increased significantly. A major disruption in the fixed income capital markets that limits our ability to raise funds or significantly increases the cost of those funds could have a material impact on our ability to acquire student loans, or on our results of operations. Going forward, 67 securitizations will continue to be the primary source of long term financing. Our securitizations are structured such that we do not provide any level of financial, credit or liquidity support to any of the trusts. Our exposure is limited to the recovery of the Retained Interest asset on the balance sheet for off balance sheet securitizations. While all of our Retained Interests are subject to some prepayment risk, Retained Interests from our FFELP Stafford securitizations have significant prepayment risk primarily from Consolidation Loans that could materially impair their value. Retained Interest in Securitized Receivables The following table summarizes the fair value of our Retained Interests along with the underlying student loans that relate to those securitizations that were treated as sales. As of December 31, 2004 As of December 31, 2003 Underlying Underlying Retained Securitized Retained Securitized Interest Loan Interest Loan Fair Value Balance Fair Value Balance FFELP Stafford loans $ 1,037 $ 27,444 $ 1,023 $ 26,420 Consolidation Loans(1) 585 7,393 994 8,076 Private Education Loans 694 6,309 459 3,983 Total(2) $ 2,316 $ 41,146 $ 2,476 $ 38,479 (1) Includes $399 million and $727 million related to the fair value of the Embedded Floor Income as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. (2) Unrealized gains (pre tax) included in accumulated other comprehensive income related to the Retained Interests totaled $445 million and $443 million as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Accounting Estimates Effect on the Residual Interest in Securitized Trusts We updated certain assumptions during 2004 that we use in the valuation of the Residual Interest. The following are the significant assumption changes that were made: As of December 31, As of December 31, 2004 2003 FFELP Stafford loan CPR(1) 20% 2005 20% 2004 15% 2006 15% 2005 6% thereafter 6% thereafter Private Education Loan CPR(2) 3% 6% FFELP expected credit losses (as a % of securitized loan balance outstanding)(3) 0% .17% (1) We increased the FFELP Stafford loan CPR assumption to account for the record levels of Consolidation Loan volume over the past three years. Unless there is a legislative change to the Consolidation Loan program through HEA reauthorization, we believe that high levels of Consolidation Loan activity will continue. (2) We decreased the Private Education Loan CPR assumption because these loans are repaying slower than originally projected, including slower prepayments. (3) We lowered our assumption of expected FFELP credit losses to zero percent to reflect the effect of the EP designation on Sallie Mae serviced FFELP loans in the trusts. The EP designation is discussed in more detail in LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT Student Loans Allowance for FFELP Student Loan Losses. 68 Servicing and Securitization Revenue Servicing and securitization revenue, the ongoing revenue from securitized loan pools accounted for off balance sheet as QSPEs, includes the interest earned on the Residual Interest asset and the revenue we receive for servicing the loans in the securitization trusts. Interest income recognized on the Residual Interest is based on our anticipated yield determined by estimating future cash flows each quarter. The following table summarizes the components of servicing and securitization revenue for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Servicing revenue $ 326 $ 314 $ 278 Securitization revenue, before Embedded Floor Income 150 173 203 Servicing and securitization revenue, before Embedded Floor Income 476 487 481 Embedded Floor Income 241 337 364 Less: Floor Income previously recognized in gain calculation (156 ) (157 ) (6 ) Net Embedded Floor Income 85 180 358 Total servicing and securitization revenue $ 561 $ 667 $ 839 Average off balance sheet student loans $ 40,558 $ 38,205 $ 32,280 Average balance of Retained Interest $ 2,434 $ 2,615 $ 1,746 Fluctuations in servicing and securitization revenue are generally driven by the amount of and the difference in the timing of Embedded Floor Income recognition on off balance sheet student loans, as well as the impact of Consolidation Loan activity on FFELP Stafford student loan securitizations. When FFELP Stafford loans consolidate, they are a prepayment to the trust and as a result shorten the life of the trust. We estimate the trust prepayments through consolidation with our CPR assumption. When consolidation activity is higher than forecasted, the Residual Interest asset can be impaired and the yield used to recognize subsequent income from the trust is negatively impacted, though we typically retain the value of the asset on balance sheet versus in the trust. For the year ended December 31, 2004, we recorded an impairment charge of $80 million due primarily to (a) FFELP Stafford loans continuing to consolidate at levels faster than projected ($47 million) and (b) rising interest rates during the second quarter of 2004, which decreased the value of the Embedded Floor Income component of our Retained Interest ($33 million). We recorded impairment charges of $96 million and $40 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively, due primarily to FFELP Stafford loans prepaying faster through consolidation than projected. The impairment charges were recorded as losses and were included as a reduction in securitization revenue. We receive annual servicing fees of 90 basis points, 50 basis points and 70 basis points of the outstanding securitized loan balance related to our FFELP Stafford, Consolidation Loan and Private Education Loan securitizations, respectively. CONTRACTUAL CASH OBLIGATIONS The following table provides a summary of our obligations associated with long term notes and equity forward contracts at December 31, 2004. For further discussion of these obligations, see Note 8, Long Term 69 Debt, Note 10, Derivative Financial Instruments, and Note 15, Common Stock, to the consolidated financial statements. 1 Year 2 to 3 4 to 5 Over 5 or less Years Years Years Total Long term notes(1)(2) 2,473 22,248 11,418 37,968 74,107 Equity forward contracts(3) 951 1,205 2,156 Total contractual cash obligations $ 2,473 $ 23,199 $ 12,623 $ 37,968 $ 76,263 (1) Excludes SFAS No. 133 derivative market value adjustments of $1.8 billion for long term notes. (2) Includes FIN No. 46 long term beneficial interests of $35.8 billion of notes issued by consolidated variable interest entities in conjunction with our on balance sheet securitization transactions and included in long term notes in the consolidated balance sheet. (3) Our obligation to repurchase shares under equity forward contracts is calculated using the average purchase prices for outstanding contracts in the year the contracts expire. At or prior to the maturity date of the agreements, we can purchase shares at the contracted amount plus or minus an early break fee, or we can settle the contract on a net basis with either cash or shares. If our stock price declines to a certain level, the third party with whom we entered into the contract can liquidate the position prior to the maturity date. OFF BALANCE SHEET LENDING ARRANGEMENTS The following table summarizes the commitments associated with student loan purchases and contractual amounts related to off balance sheet lending related financial instruments and guarantees at December 31, 2004. 1 Year 2 to 3 4 to 5 Over 5 or less Years Years Years Total Student loan purchases(1)(2) $ 7,846 $ 1,878 $ 14,120 $ 23,404 $ 47,248 Lines of credit(2) 150 34 327 377 888 Letters of credit(2) 157 157 $ 8,153 $ 1,912 $ 14,447 $ 23,781 $ 48,293 (1) Includes amounts committed at specified dates under forward contracts to purchase student loans and anticipated future requirements to acquire student loans from lending partners (discussed below) estimated based on future originations at contractually committed rates. (2) Expiration of commitments and guarantees reflect the earlier of call date or maturity date as of December 31, 2004. We have forward purchase commitments to acquire student loans from various lenders, including our largest lending partners, Bank One and JPMorgan Chase. With respect to JPMorgan Chase, we entered into a joint venture established solely to facilitate our acquisition of student loans originated by JPMorgan Chase. Under a renewable multi year agreement, we service and purchase a significant share of Bank Ones volume. For further discussion of our relationships with JPMorgan Chase and Bank One, see BUSINESS LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT Sallie Maes Lending Business in Item 1 of this Annual Report. We have issued lending related financial instruments including letters of credit and lines of credit to meet the financing needs of our customers. The contractual amount of these financial instruments represents the maximum possible credit risk should the counterparty draw down the commitment and the counterparty subsequently fails to perform according to the terms of our contract. Most of these commitments and guarantees expire without being drawn. As a result, the total contractual amount of these instruments is not, in our view, representative of our actual future credit exposure or funding requirements. 70 To the extent that letters of credit and lines of credit are drawn upon, the balance outstanding is collateralized by student loans. We earn fees associated with the maintenance of these financial instruments which totaled $2 million, $7 million and $10 million in 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. At December 31, 2004, draws on lines of credit were approximately $227 million, which amount is reflected in other loans in the consolidated balance sheet. For additional information, see Note 13, Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements. RISKS Overview Managing risks is an essential part of successfully operating a financial services company. Our most prominent risk exposures are operational, market and interest rate, political and regulatory, liquidity, credit, and Consolidation Loan refinancing risk. Operational Risk Operational risk can result from regulatory compliance errors, other servicing errors (see further discussion below), technology failures, breaches of the internal control system, and the risk of fraud or unauthorized transactions by employees or persons outside the Company. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards and contractual commitments, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. The federal guarantee on our student loans and our designation as an Exceptional Performer by ED is conditioned on compliance with origination and servicing standards set by ED and guarantor agencies. A mitigating factor is our ability to cure servicing deficiencies and historically our losses have been small. Should we experience a high rate of servicing deficiencies, the cost of remedial servicing or the eventual losses on the student loans that are not cured could be material. Our servicing and operating processes are highly dependent on our information system infrastructure, and we face the risk of business disruption should there be extended failures of our information systems, any number of which could have a material impact on our business. We have a number of back up and recovery plans in the event of systems failures. These plans are tested regularly and monitored constantly. We manage operational risk through our risk management and internal control processes, which involve each business line including independent cost centers, such as servicing, as well as executive management. The business lines have direct and primary responsibility and accountability for identifying, controlling, and monitoring operational risk, and each business line manager maintains a system of controls with the objective of providing proper transaction authorization and execution, proper system operations, safeguarding of assets from misuse or theft, and ensuring the reliability of financial and other data. In 2004, we further strengthened our operational controls by centralizing certain staff functions such as accounting, human resources and legal. While we believe that we have designed effective methods to minimize operational risks, our operations remain vulnerable to natural disasters, human error, technology and communication system breakdowns and fraud. Market and Interest Rate Risk Market risk is the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices and or interest rates of our financial instruments. Our primary market risk is from changes in interest rates and interest spreads. We have an active interest rate risk management program that is designed to reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates and maintain consistent earning spreads in all interest rate environments. We use derivative instruments extensively to hedge our interest rate exposure, but in our hedging activities is a risk that we are not hedging all potential interest rate exposures or that the hedges do not perform as designed. We measure interest rate risk by calculating the variability of net interest income in future periods under various interest rate scenarios using projected balances for interest earning assets, interest bearing liabilities and derivatives used to hedge interest rate risk. Many assumptions are utilized by management to calculate the impact that changes in interest rates 71 may have on net interest income, the more significant of which are related to student loan volumes and pricing, the timing of cash flows from our student loan portfolio, particularly the impact of Floor Income and the rate of student loan consolidations, basis risk, credit spreads and the maturity of our debt and derivatives. (See also Interest Rate Risk Management.) We are also subject to market risk relative to our equity forward contracts that allow us to repurchase our common stock in the future from a third party at the market price at the time of entering the contract. Should the market value of our stock fall below certain predetermined levels, the counterparty to the contract has a right to terminate the contract and settle all or a portion at the original contract price. We are required to mark our equity forwards to market, so decreases in our stock price could result in material losses. Political/Regulatory Risk Because we operate in a federally sponsored loan program, we are subject to political and regulatory risk. As part of the HEA, the student loan program is periodically amended and must be reauthorized every six years. Past changes included reduced loan yields paid to lenders in 1993 and 1998, increased fees paid by lenders in 1993, decreased level of the government guaranty in 1993 and reduced fees to guarantors and collectors, among others. The program is scheduled to be reauthorized in 2005 and management expects reauthorization to be completed no earlier than in the second half of 2005. There can be no assurances that the reauthorization will not result in changes that may have a materially adverse impact to the Company. See OTHER RELATED EVENTS AND INFORMATION Reauthorization and Budget Proposals. The Secretary of Education oversees and implements the HEA and periodically issues regulations and interpretations that may impact our business. Liquidity Risk (See also LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Securitization Activities Long Term Liquidity Risk) Credit Risk Short Term We bear the full risk of borrower and closed school losses experienced in our Private Education Loan portfolio. These loans are underwritten and priced according to risk, generally determined by a commercially available consumer credit scoring system, FICOtm. Additionally, for borrowers who do not meet our lending requirements or who desire more favorable terms, we require credit worthy co borrowers. When schools close, losses may be incurred when student borrowers have not completed their education. We have defined underwriting and collection policies, and ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for all Private Education Loans. The performance of the Private Education Loan portfolio may be affected by the economy, and a prolonged economic downturn may have an adverse effect on its credit performance. Management believes that it has provided sufficient allowances to cover the losses that may be experienced in both the federally guaranteed and Private Education Loan portfolios over the next 2 to 5 years depending on the portfolio. There is, however, no guarantee that such allowances are sufficient enough to account for actual losses. (See LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT Student Loans Activity in the Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses.) We have credit risk exposure to the various counterparties with whom we have entered into derivative contracts. We review the credit standing of these companies. Our credit policies place limits on the amount of exposure we may take with any one party and in most cases, require collateral to secure the position. The credit risk associated with derivatives is measured based on the replacement cost should the counterparties with contracts in a gain position to the Company fail to perform under the terms of the contract. We also have credit risk with two commercial airlines related to our portfolio of leveraged leases. (See LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT Losses on Securities, Net.) 72 Consolidation Loan Refinancing Risk The consolidation of our loan portfolio can have detrimental effects. First, we may lose student loans in our portfolio that are consolidated with other lenders. In 2003, we experienced a net run off of $84 million of student loans from Consolidation Loan activity as more of our FFELP Stafford student loans were consolidated with other lenders than were consolidated by us. In 2004, our increased marketing focus on Consolidation Loans generated a net gain of $504 million, a trend we expect to continue into the future. Second, Consolidation Loans have lower net yields than the FFELP Stafford loans they replace. This is somewhat offset by the longer average lives of Consolidation Loans. Third, we must maintain sufficient, short term liquidity to enable us to cost effectively refinance previously securitized FFELP Stafford loans as they are consolidated back on to our balance sheet. ED has taken the position that a borrower may consolidate his or her FFELP Consolidation Loan with the FDLP irrespective of whether that borrowers FFELP holder offers a Consolidation Loan with income sensitive repayment terms. Based upon an analysis of the applicable law and regulations, we disagree with EDs interpretations. If EDs interpretations are formally adopted and not successfully challenged, our Managed portfolio could be subject to further consolidation risk. Interest Rate Risk Management Asset and Liability Funding Gap The tables below present our assets and liabilities (funding) arranged by underlying indices as of December 31, 2004. In the following GAAP presentation, the funding gap only includes derivatives that qualify as effective SFAS No. 133 hedges (those derivatives which are reflected in net interest margin, as opposed to in the derivative market value adjustment). The difference between the asset and the funding is the funding gap, which represents our exposure to interest rate risk in the form of basis risk and repricing risk, which is the risk that the different indices may reset at different frequencies or may not move in the same direction or at the same magnitude. Management analyzes interest rate risk on a Managed basis, which consists of both on balance sheet and off balance sheet assets and liabilities and includes all derivatives that are economically hedging our debt whether they qualify as effective hedges under SFAS No. 133 or not. Accordingly, we are also presenting the asset and liability funding gap on a Managed basis in the table that follows the GAAP presentation. 73 GAAP Basis Frequency of Variable Funding Index Resets Assets Funding(1) Gap (Dollars in billions) 3 month Commercial paper daily $ 46.0 $ $ 46.0 3 month Treasury bill weekly 11.3 .3 11.0 Prime annual .9 .9 Prime quarterly 1.3 1.3 Prime monthly 2.9 2.9 PLUS Index annual 1.9 2.0 (0.1 ) 3 month LIBOR daily 3 month LIBOR quarterly 2.2 55.3 (53.1 ) 1 month LIBOR monthly 2.0 (2.0 ) CMT/CPI index monthly/quarterly 1.2 (1.2 ) Non Discreet reset(2) monthly 10.1 (10.1 ) Non Discreet reset(3) daily/weekly 5.9 5.9 Fixed Rate(4) 11.7 13.2 (1.5 ) Total $ 84.1 $ 84.1 $ (1) Includes all derivatives that qualify as hedges under SFAS No. 133. (2) Consists of asset backed commercial paper and auction rate securities, which are discount note type instruments that generally roll over monthly. (3) Includes restricted and non restricted cash equivalents and other overnight type instruments. (4) Includes receivables/payables, other assets (including retained interest), other liabilities and stockholders equity. The funding gaps in the above table are primarily interest rate mismatches in short term indices between our assets and liabilities. We address this issue primarily through the use of basis swaps that primarily convert quarterly 3 month LIBOR to other indices that are more correlated to our asset indices. These basis swaps do not qualify as effective hedges under SFAS No. 133 and as a result are not included in our interest margin and are therefore excluded from the GAAP presentation. 74 Managed Basis Frequency of Variable Index Resets Assets Funding(5) Funding Gap (Dollars in billions) 3 month Commercial paper daily $ 64.2 $ 16.4 $ 47.8 3 month Treasury bill weekly 25.7 22.1 3.6 Prime annual .9 .9 Prime quarterly 6.7 2.5 4.2 Prime monthly 2.9 1.3 1.6 PLUS Index annual 4.7 5.0 (0.3 ) 3 month LIBOR daily 33.2 (33.2 ) 3 month LIBOR quarterly 1.9 21.6 (19.7 ) 1 month LIBOR monthly 2.0 (2.0 ) CMT/ CPI index monthly/quarterly Non Discreet reset(6) monthly 10.5 (10.5 ) Non Discreet reset(7) daily/weekly 9.1 9.1 Fixed Rate(8) 8.9 10.4 (1.5 ) Total $ 125.0 $ 125.0 $ (5) Includes all derivatives that management considers economic hedges of interest rate risk and reflects how we internally manage our interest rate exposure. (6) Consists of asset backed commercial paper and auction rate securities, which are discount note type instruments that generally roll over monthly. (7) Includes restricted and non restricted cash equivalents and other overnight type instruments. (8) Includes receivables/payables, other assets, other liabilities and stockholders equity. To the extent possible we generally fund our assets with debt (in combination with derivatives) that has the same underlying index (index type and index reset frequency). When it is more economical, we also fund our assets with debt that has a different index and or reset frequency than the asset, but only in instances where we believe there is a high degree of correlation between the interest rate movement of the two indices. For example, we use daily reset 3 month LIBOR to fund a large portion of our daily reset 3 month commercial paper indexed assets. In addition, we use quarterly reset 3 month LIBOR to fund a portion of our quarterly reset Prime rate indexed Private Education Loans. We also use our monthly Non Discreet reset funding (asset backed commercial paper program and auction rate securities) to fund various asset types. In using different index types and different index reset frequencies to fund our assets, we are exposed to interest rate risk in the form of basis risk and repricing risk, which is the risk that the different indices that may reset at different frequencies will not move in the same direction or at the same magnitude. We believe that this risk is low as all of these indices are short term with rate movements that are highly correlated over a long period of time. We use interest rate swaps and other derivatives to achieve our risk management objectives. When compared with the GAAP presentation the Managed basis presentation includes all of our off balance sheet assets and funding, and also includes basis swaps that primarily convert quarterly 3 month LIBOR to other indices that are more correlated to our asset indices. Interest Rate Gap Analysis In the table below, the Companys variable rate assets and liabilities are categorized by reset date of the underlying index. Fixed rate assets and liabilities are categorized based on their maturity dates. An interest rate gap is the difference between volumes of assets and volumes of liabilities maturing or repricing during 75 specific future time intervals. The following gap analysis reflects rate sensitive positions at December 31, 2004 and is not necessarily reflective of positions that existed throughout the period. Interest Rate Sensitivity Period 3 months 3 months to 6 months 1 to 2 to Over or less 6 months to 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Assets Student loans $ 62,080 $ 2,563 $ 743 $ 519 $ 73 $ 3 Academic facilities financings and other loans 252 57 76 15 22 626 Cash and investments, including restricted 6,705 110 87 286 1,227 771 Other assets 3,041 103 207 302 565 3,661 Total assets 72,078 2,833 1,113 1,122 1,887 5,061 Liabilities and Stockholders Equity Short term borrowings 1,319 483 405 Long term notes 54,613 333 400 815 6,614 13,140 Other liabilities 1,941 857 Minority interest in subsidiaries 72 Stockholders equity 3,102 Total liabilities and stockholders equity 57,873 816 805 815 6,614 17,171 Period gap before adjustments 14,205 2,017 308 307 (4,727 ) (12,110 ) Adjustments for Derivatives and Other Financial Instruments Interest rate swaps (8,981 ) (6,955 ) (153 ) (292 ) 4,028 12,353 Impact of securitized student loans (3,157 ) 3,157 Total derivatives and other financial instruments (12,138 ) (3,798 ) (153 ) (292 ) 4,028 12,353 Period gap $ 2,067 $ (1,781 ) $ 155 $ 15 $ (699 ) $ 243 Cumulative gap $ 2,067 $ 286 $ 441 $ 456 $ (243 ) $ Ratio of interest sensitive assets to interest sensitive liabilities 123.4 % 334.6 % 112.5 % 100.6 % 20.0 % 10.6 % Ratio of cumulative gap to total assets 2.5 % 0.3 % 0.5 % 0.5 % (0.3 )% % 76 Weighted Average Life The following table reflects the weighted average life for our Managed earning assets and liabilities at December 31, 2004. On Balance Off Balance (Averages in years) Sheet Sheet Managed Earning assets Student loans 8.7 4.4 8.2 Academic facilities financings and other loans 7.3 7.3 Cash and investments 1.7 1.7 Total earning assets 7.9 4.4 7.7 Borrowings Short term borrowings .7 .7 Long term borrowings 8.4 4.4 6.9 Total borrowings 8.1 4.4 6.8 In the above table, Treasury receipts and variable rate asset backed securities, although generally liquid in nature, extend the weighted average remaining term to maturity of cash and investments to 1.7 years. Long term debt issuances likely to be called have been categorized according to their call dates rather than their maturity dates. Long term debt issuances which are putable by the investor are categorized according to their put dates rather than their maturity dates. COMMON STOCK The following table summarizes our common share repurchases, issuances and equity forward activity for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. Years Ended December 31, (Shares in millions) 2004 2003 Common shares repurchased: Open market .5 6.7 Equity forwards 32.7 20.2 Benefit plans(1) 1.5 2.4 Total shares repurchased 34.7 29.3 Average purchase price per share(2) $ 38.03 $ 31.18 Common shares issued 10.7 18.2 Equity forward contracts: Outstanding at beginning of year 43.5 28.7 New contracts 32.0 35.0 Exercises (32.7 ) (20.2 ) Outstanding at end of year 42.8 43.5 Authority remaining at end of year to repurchase or enter into equity forwards 35.8 38.4 (1) Includes shares withheld from stock option exercises and vesting of performance stock to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations and shares tendered by employees to satisfy option exercise costs. (2) The average purchase price per share for 2004 is calculated based on the average strike price of all equity forward contracts including those that were net settled in the cashless transactions discussed below. The average cash purchase price per share is $22.38 when a zero cash cost is reflected for those shares acquired in the cashless transactions. 77 During September 2004 and November 2004, we amended substantially all of our outstanding equity forward purchase contracts. The strike prices on these contracts were adjusted to the then current market share prices of the common stock and the total number of shares under contract was reduced from 53.4 million shares to 46.7 million shares and 49.0 million shares to 42.2 million shares, respectively. In addition, as a result of these amendments, we received a total of 13.4 million shares that settled in September and November free and clear in cashless transactions. This reduction of 13.4 million shares covered by the equity forward contracts is shown on a net basis in the exercises row of the table above. As of December 31, 2004, the expiration dates and purchase prices for outstanding equity forward contracts were as follows: (Contracts in millions of shares) Outstanding Range of Average Year of maturity contracts purchase prices purchase price 2006 8.6 $39.74 $50.47 $ 49.73 2007 10.3 50.47 50.47 2008 7.9 50.47 50.47 2009 16.0 50.47 50.47 42.8 $ 50.32 The closing price of the Companys common stock on December 31, 2004 was $53.39. In October 2004, the Board of Directors voted to authorize the repurchase of up to an additional 30 million shares of the Companys common stock, leaving a remaining authority to enter into additional share repurchases and equity forward contracts for 35.8 million shares. In September 2003, the Company retired 170 million shares of common stock held in treasury at an average price of $18.04 per share. This retirement decreased the balance in treasury stock by $3.1 billion, with corresponding decreases of $34 million in common stock and $3.1 billion in retained earnings. In May 2003, the Companys shareholders approved an increase in the number of shares of common stock the Company is authorized to issue from 375 million shares to 1.1 billion shares. Subsequently, the Board of Directors approved a three for one split of the Companys common stock which was effected in the form of a stock dividend on June 20, 2003, for all shareholders of record on June 6, 2003. All share and per share amounts presented have been retroactively restated for the stock split. Stockholders equity has been restated to give retroactive recognition to the stock split for all periods presented by reclassifying from additional paid in capital to common stock the par value of the additional shares issued as a result of the stock split. STUDENT LOAN MARKETING ASSOCIATION Privatization Act Completion of the GSE Wind Down Under the Privatization Act, the GSE was required to wind down its operations and dissolve on or before September 30, 2008. On December 29, 2004, we completed the Wind Down of the GSE by defeasing the remaining debt obligations of the GSE and dissolving the GSEs federal charter. Specifically, the GSE, SLM Corporation and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, both in its capacity as trustee and as fiscal agent for the GSEs remaining obligations, entered into a Master Defeasance Trust Agreement as of December 29, 2004 that established a special and irrevocable trust, which was fully collateralized by direct, noncallable obligations of the United States. On December 29, 2004, the United States Department of the Treasury determined that such obligations were sufficient, without consideration of any significant reinvestment of interest, to pay the principal of and the interest on the GSEs remaining obligations. The Wind Down was completed upon the issuance of that determination and the GSEs separate existence terminated. 78 RECENT DEVELOPMENTS Proposed Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance Authority Partnership On December 14, 2004, the Company submitted a proposal to the board of directors of the Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance Authority (PHEAA) outlining a partnership between the Company and PHEAA. Under the proposal, the Company would purchase PHEAAs operations and certain financial assets and would enter into a five year guarantor and loan servicing contract with PHEAA. The Company proposed consideration in the form of an upfront payment of $500 million and five annual payments of $100 million each. The offer was summarily rejected by the PHEAA Board of Directors in December 2004. Subsequently, the Appropriations Committee of the Pennsylvania State House of Representatives held hearings to evaluate the proposal and the student loan marketplace in Pennsylvania. Both PHEAA and Salle Mae testified at the hearings. Exceptional Performer Designation On October 5, 2004, ED formally notified us that Sallie Mae Servicing received the Departments Exceptional Performer Designation, a classification awarded to qualified lenders and loan servicers for meeting certain government standards in administering loans under the FFELP. To qualify as an Exceptional Performer, lenders and servicers must achieve an overall compliance performance rating of 97 percent or higher for servicing requirements set by ED on federally guaranteed loans. As a result of the designation, during a one year period that commenced on October 19, 2004, the Company will receive 100 percent reimbursement on default claims on federally guaranteed student loans that were serviced by Sallie Mae Servicing for a period of at least 270 days prior to the date of default. This one year period may be extended on an annual basis so long as the Company maintains a satisfactory overall compliance rating. The initial one year period and any extensions are subject to quarterly compliance audits that can result in the revocation of the designation. Bank One/ JPMorgan Chase Relationships On July 30, 2004, following the merger of JPMorgan Chase and Bank One, the Company and Bank One entered into a comprehensive agreement under which, among other things: we agreed to the termination of our marketing services agreement with Bank One, effectively allowing Bank One to in source the marketing of its own education loans; Bank One paid a $14 million termination fee to the Company; we extended our ExportSS agreement, through which we purchase certain Bank One branded FFELP student loans and certain Private Education Loans, from March 2005 through August 2008; for a $9 million fee, paid to the Company, Bank One terminated a separate loan purchase agreement that was entered into with USA Group prior to our July 2000 acquisition of that entity. Following the termination, (1) we retained the right to purchase FFELP loans originated under this agreement for the 2004 2005 academic year and all serial loans and (2) all loans that we originate and service on our servicing platforms on behalf of Bank One will be committed for sale under the ExportSS agreement after the 2004 2005 academic year. In 2003, the last full year of the marketing services agreement with Bank One, we earned approximately $37 million in marketing service fees, of which $22 million was recognized in other income and $15 million was capitalized as a reduction in loan purchase premiums. In connection with the fees, we incurred and recognized $15 million in expenses related to these activities. We believe we can offset this lost income under the terminated marketing services agreement, as well as an expected gradual reduction in loan purchase volume from Bank One, with increased Private Education Loans and FFELP loan originations through our more profitable internal brands. 79 JPMorgan Chase Joint Venture Our separate joint venture with JPMorgan Chase currently remains in place, although JPMorgan Chase has rejected our initial offer to renew the agreements that support the joint venture and has filed a petition in a Delaware Chancery court seeking to dissolve the joint venture. Under terms of the joint venture, if the Company and JPMorgan Chase are unable to mutually agree upon the terms of a new loan purchase and servicing agreement for the five year period beginning September 2007 by May 31, 2005, then either party may trigger a Dutch Auction process. Under that process, the electing party offers to purchase the other partys 50 percent interest or sell its 50 percent interest in the joint venture at a specified price. The non electing party then has the right to either sell its interest in the joint venture or purchase the electing partys interest, in either case at the originally offered price. If we are the successful purchaser in a Dutch Auction, then for a two year period following the closing: JPMorgan Chase may not compete with the Company in the marketing, purchasing, servicing or ownership of education loans (except with respect to the continuation of business activities under the Bank One name or the name of any other JPMorgan Chase affiliate), we may use certain JPMorgan Chase trademarks for a nominal annual fee, and we acquire all rights to make additional FFELP student loans (serial loans) to customers of the joint venture who entered into master promissory notes prior to the Dutch Auction. If JPMorgan Chase is the successful purchaser in a Dutch Auction, then for a two year period following the closing: it may use certain Sallie Mae trademarks for a nominal annual fee, we would be required to act as origination and servicing agent for JPMorgan Chase at market rates, and we would be required to provide JPMorgan Chase with access to certain Sallie Mae products and services. If neither party triggers the Dutch Auction process, then the loan purchase agreement (under which the joint venture sells student loans to Sallie Mae) will expire on August 31, 2007 and the joint venture will expire in 2026. Absent any negotiated settlement or other income, JPMorgan Chase and Sallie Mae would share equally in the economics of the joint venture from September 1, 2007 until the expiration of the joint venture. Through its lawsuit, JPMorgan Chase is seeking to dissolve the joint venture without having to follow the mutually agreed upon Dutch Auction process. JPMorgan Chases request with the Chancery court for an expedited schedule for a final hearing on the merits has been stayed pending settlement discussions among the parties. See Legal Proceedings in Item 3 of this Annual Report. 80 OTHER RELATED EVENTS AND INFORMATION Reauthorization and Budget Proposals Congress reauthorizes the HEA every five years. The HEA was originally scheduled to expire on September 30, 2003, but by its terms was automatically extended to September 30, 2004. Last year, Congress passed legislation extending the Act to September 30, 2005. We expect that Congress will pass a reauthorization bill no earlier than the second half of 2005. On February 2, 2005, Rep. John Boehner, Chairman of the U.S. House of Representatives, Committee on Education and the Workforce, reintroduced H.R. 507 (which was reintroduced on February 8, 2005 as H.R. 609 to correct a technical drafting error), legislation to reauthorize the HEA. This proposal is identical to Chairman Boehners reauthorization proposal from 2004. Its provisions include: requiring lenders to return to the federal government Floor Income in excess of 50 basis points per loan; gradually reducing origination fees to one percent on student loans in both the FFELP and FDLP programs; increasing loan limits for first year and second year students from $2,625 to $3,500 and from $3,500 to $4,500, respectively, without increasing the aggregate undergraduate borrowing limits; increasing graduate unsubsidized annual borrowing limits from $10,000 to $12,000; preserving the current variable interest rate formula on Stafford and Unsubsidized Stafford loans beyond July 1, 2006; changing the current fixed consolidation loan interest rates to variable rates; repealing the single holder rule (under the existing rule, if a borrower has multiple student loans that are held by a single lender, a new lender cannot make a consolidation loan unless the single holder declines to offer the borrower a consolidation loan or unless the single holder declines to offer to the borrower a consolidation loan with income sensitive repayment terms); requiring student loan lenders to report to all national credit bureaus; and repealing the 9.5 percent SAP rate payable on certain student loans funded with tax exempt bonds. On February 7, 2005, President Bush released his Administrations proposed budget for Federal Fiscal Year 2006. The proposed budget contains a number of reauthorization proposals that track H.R. 609, including loan limit increases, a change to a variable rate formula for borrower interest rates on the Stafford and Consolidation loans, partial repeal of the 9.5 percent SAP rates and repeal of the single holder rule. However, the Administration also proposes to reduce the amount of loan principal and accrued interest insured against default from 98 to 95 percent for new loans originated after the effective date of the legislation. Industry participants, like Sallie Mae, that have been designated by ED as Exceptional Performers would have their reinsurance reduced from 100 percent to 97 percent under the proposals, although the Secretary of Education would have the authority under the proposal to set reinsurance at 98 percent for Exceptional Performers who meet certain criteria. The Administrations 2006 budget proposal would also impose a 25 basis point annual loan holder fee on the outstanding balance of non consolidation loans for loans originated on or after July 1, 2006. This proposal is intended to offset the Floor Income that FFELP lenders may realize in certain declining interest rate environments. Most significantly, the Administration proposes to allow borrowers to reconsolidate on multiple occasions subject to a one percent borrower origination fee on reconsolidation and increase the current one time lender fee on new Consolidation Loans from 50 basis points to one percent. In addition, the Administration proposes to reduce incrementally through 2010 the amount guaranty agencies may retain from collections on defaulted loans from 23 percent to 16 percent. The proposed budget would also reduce, for new loans, the reinsurance provided by ED to guaranty agencies from 95 percent to 92 percent. Finally, the Administration proposes to eliminate the Perkins Loan program. 81 To date, no reauthorization proposals have been introduced in the Senate. Consistent with prior reauthorizations, we expect that there will be competing proposals in both houses of Congress to reform federal financial aid programs, including the FFELP. While we expect the Administrations budget proposals will undergo significant review by Congress, it is unclear whether they will be introduced as part of the upcoming reauthorization or in other legislation. If certain proposals were adopted, including the 25 basis point fee and the reconsolidation proposals, the Companys financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected and the refinancing risk in its Managed Consolidation Loan portfolio would increase significantly. Legislative Update Taxpayer Teacher Protection Act of 2004 On October 30, 2004 President Bush signed the Taxpayer Teacher Protection Act of 2004 (the October 30 Act), a new law that amends the HEA. The October 30 Act restricts the situations in which lenders are entitled to a minimum yield of 9.5 percent in connection with loans made from the proceeds of certain tax exempt bonds. Specifically, ED will no longer guarantee a minimum yield of 9.5 percent for a loan financed with qualifying tax exempt bonds if (1) the underlying bond matures, is retired, is defeased or is refunded or (2) if the loan is refinanced with funds obtained from certain bonds or is sold or transferred to another holder. The October 30 Act, which is effective for a 15 month period, is expected to be permanently extended as part of the reauthorization of the HEA. Management expects that the October 30 Act will have no impact on the Companys earnings or operations. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, Significant Accounting Policies Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis The effect of short term movements in interest rates on our results of operations and financial position has been limited through our interest rate risk management. The following tables summarize the effect on earnings for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 and the effect on fair values at December 31, 2004 and 2003, based upon a sensitivity analysis performed by management assuming a hypothetical increase in market interest rates of 100 basis points and 300 basis points while funding spreads remain constant. We have chosen to illustrate the effects of a hypothetical increase to interest rates, as an increase gives rise to a larger absolute value change to the financial statements. Year ended December 31, 2004 Year ended December 31, 2003 Interest Rates: Interest Rates: Change from Change from Change from Change from increase of increase of increase of increase of 100 basis 300 basis 100 basis 300 basis points points points points (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) $ % $ % $ % $ % Effect on Earnings Increase/(decrease) in pre tax net income before unrealized derivative market value adjustment $ 31 3 % $ 138 14 % $ (158 ) (7 )% $ (156 ) (6 )% Unrealized derivative market value adjustment 279 18 576 37 320 64 727 145 Increase in net income before taxes $ 310 12 % $ 714 28 % $ 162 6 % $ 571 20 % Increase in diluted earnings per share $ .424 10 % $ .975 24 % $ .227 5 % $ .801 16 % 82 At December 31, 2004 Interest Rates: Change from Change from increase of 100 increase of 300 basis points basis points Fair (Dollars in millions) Value $ % $ % Effect on Fair Values Assets Student loans $ 67,431 $ (315 ) % $ (636 ) (1 )% Other earning assets 10,285 (120 ) (1 ) (333 ) (3 ) Other assets 7,878 (652 ) (8 ) (1,154 ) (15 ) Total assets $ 85,594 $ (1,087 ) (1 )% $ (2,123 ) (2 )% Liabilities Interest bearing liabilities $ 78,295 $ (1,202 ) (2 )% $ (3,356 ) (4 )% Other liabilities 2,798 276 10 1,503 54 Total liabilities $ 81,093 $ (926 ) (1 )% $ (1,853 ) (2 )% At December 31, 2003 Interest Rates: Change from Change from increase of 100 increase of 300 basis points basis points (Dollars in millions) Fair Value $ % $ % Effect on Fair Values Assets Student loans $ 51,559 $ (399 ) (1 )% $ (870 ) (2 )% Other earning assets 9,085 (112 ) (1 ) (309 ) (3 ) Other assets 5,531 (543 ) (10 ) (839 ) (15 ) Total assets $ 66,175 $ (1,054 ) (2 )% $ (2,018 ) (3 )% Liabilities Interest bearing liabilities $ 58,993 $ (1,458 ) (2 )% $ (3,630 ) (6 )% Other liabilities 3,437 610 18 1,979 58 Total liabilities $ 62,430 $ (848 ) (1 )% $ (1,651 ) (3 )% A primary objective in our funding is to minimize our sensitivity to changing interest rates by generally funding our floating rate student loan portfolio with floating rate debt. However, as discussed under LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT Student Loans Floor Income, in the current low interest rate environment, we can have a fixed versus floating mismatch in funding if the student loan earns at the fixed borrower rate and the funding remains floating. During the year ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, certain FFELP student loans were earning Floor Income and we locked in a portion of that Floor Income through the use of futures and Floor Income Contracts. The result of these hedging transactions was to convert a portion of the fixed rate nature of student loans to variable rate, and to fix the relative spread between the student loan asset rate and the variable rate liability. In the above table under the scenario where interest rates increase 100 and 300 basis points, the increase in pre tax net income before the unrealized derivative market value adjustment for 2004 is primarily due to the impact of (i) our off balance sheet hedged Consolidation Loan securitizations and the related Embedded Floor Income recognized as part of the gain on sale, which results in no change in the Embedded Floor 83 Income as a result of the increase in rates but does result in a decrease in payments on the written Floor contracts and (ii) our unhedged on balance sheet loans not currently having significant Floor Income due to the recent increase in interest rates, which results in these loans being more variable rate in nature. The decrease in pre tax net income in 2003 before the unrealized derivative market value adjustment reflects lower Floor Income on the unhedged portion of our student loan portfolio. Under the scenario where interest rates increase 300 basis points, the change in pre tax net income before the unrealized derivative market value adjustment is not proportional to the change under the scenario where interest rates increase 100 basis points because of the additional spread earned on loans hedged with futures and swaps mentioned above and the greater proportion of loans earning at a floating rate under a 300 basis point increase in rates. 
 
