Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Years ended December 31, 2006 2008 (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts, unless otherwise stated) FORWARD LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS Some of the statements contained in this Annual Report discuss future expectations and business strategies or include other forward looking information. Those statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements. The forward looking information is based on various factors and was derived using numerous assumptions. OVERVIEW This section provides an overview of the Companys 2008 business results from a financial perspective. Certain financial impacts of funding and liquidity, loan losses, asset growth, fee income, the distressed debt purchased paper business, operating expenses, and capital adequacy are summarized below. The income statement amounts discussed in this Overview section are on a Core Earnings basis. As discussed in the Business section, legislative changes to the FFELP, the credit markets and the economic downturn impacted the Companys financial results for 2008. The Company reported $526 million in Core Earnings net income, a decrease from $560 million in 2007. (Core Earnings are defined in BUSINESS SEGMENTS Limitations of Core Earnings Pre tax Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP by Business Segment.) Funding and Liquidity The Companys results were affected by higher funding costs than in prior periods. The higher costs were, in part, related to the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facility; the after tax fees for this Facility were $225 million for the year. This Facility was reduced from $34 billion at the beginning of the year to $28 billion by year end and was extended by 60 days to mature on April 28, 2009. Our funding costs were also affected by higher than average interest rate index divergence. Most of our FFELP loans earn interest based on market CP rates; our funding costs are primarily based on LIBOR. Due to government intervention in the CP marketplace and other market dislocations, the spread widened as much as 200 basis points on certain days during the fourth quarter of 2008, compared to an average spread of 8 basis points in the third quarter of 2008. ED established an alternative interest rate calculation for a portion of the fourth quarter to address the issue, which resulted in a 21 basis point spread for the Company for the fourth quarter. In the fourth quarter, we secured access to stable and profitable funding sources for new FFELP and Private Education Loan originations. ECASLA provides FFELP lenders with access to unlimited funding to meet student demand through AY 2009 2010. Our Private Education Loan originations are being funded by term deposits issued by Sallie Mae Bank. The Companys primary funding challenge is to replace our short term funding sources, principally the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facility, with longer term, lower cost funding. Two federally sponsored programs, the ED Conduit Program and the Federal Reserve Bank of New Yorks Term Asset Backed Liquidity Facility, which are discussed in the LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES section, are under development and offer significant potential. At year end, approximately $30 billion in student loans assets were eligible for these programs, which are expected to be operational in the first quarter of 2009. In 2008, we issued approximately $26 billion in term funding, including $18.5 billion in term FFELP ABS funding, which carried an average spread of 125 basis points over LIBOR. In early January 2009, we 24 Table of Contents announced a $1.5 billion, 12.5 year asset backed securities facility. The cost of this facility is expected to average LIBOR plus 5.75 percent and is expected to fund our Private Education Loans. Though significantly more expensive than historical transactions, this facility demonstrates term funding capability and availability for our Private Education Loan portfolio. At year end, 70 percent of our Managed student loans were funded for the life of the loans and another 12 percent were funded for an average life of 4.3 years. At year end, we held approximately $11 billion in primary liquidity, consisting of cash and short term investments and committed lines of credit. We have $5.2 billion in standby liquidity in the form of unencumbered FFELP loans. Loan Losses On a Core Earnings basis, the loan loss provision for the year was $1 billion, of which $127 million was for FFELP loans. The provision for Private Education Loans in the fourth quarter was $348 million, approximately double the average of the first three quarters of the year. We began significantly increasing the Private Education Loan allowance for loan loss in the fourth quarter of 2007 and throughout 2008 primarily related to the continued weakening of the U.S. economy, which in particular impacts our non traditional loans which are now moving into repayment status. At year end, our Private Education Loan allowance for loan loss covered approximately two years of expected losses for Private Education Loans. Asset Growth In 2008, the Company originated $17.9 billion in FFELP loans, a four percent increase over 2007. We refocused our FFELP originations on our internal lending brands, which grew 48 percent over 2007. We expect FFELP volume to exceed $20 billion in AY 2008 2009. Private Education Loan originations for 2008 were $6.3 billion, a 20 percent decline from 2007. In 2008, the Company increased its underwriting standards and as a result, average FICO scores and loans with cosigner have increased. The Company expects to continue to increase its underwriting standards, shorten the term of Private Education Loans, and require interest payments while students are attending school. The impact of these product changes and the overall economy may impact future Private Education Loan asset growth. Fee Income Fee income from our contingency business was relatively stable, increasing $4 million from $336 million in 2007 to $340 million in 2008. Fee income from our guarantor servicing business was $121 million for the year, a $35 million decrease from last year. The decrease was primarily due to legislative changes that reduce by 40 percent the account maintenance fee paid to guarantee agencies, and a one time non recurring increase to 2007 revenue of $15 million related to a contingency resolution. A possible source of additional fee income for 2009 is an increase in third party servicing. We originated $0.5 billion of FFELP loans for third parties in the fourth quarter, a 14 percent increase from the year ago quarter. The Company will seek to be a loan servicer for ED under the Loan Purchase Program. Purchased Paper Business We have decided to exit the debt purchased paper business (see ASSET PERFORMANCE GROUP BUSINESS SEGMENT). This line of business reported a $203 million after tax loss for the year, primarily due to a $368 million pre tax impairment charge. The economy and changes in real estate values will continue to impact this line of business. 25 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Excluding restructuring expenses, fourth quarter 2008 operating expenses on a Core Earnings basis were $270 million, a 26 percent decrease from the year ago period, exceeding the Companys 20 percent cost reduction target. For 2008, operating expenses on a Core Earnings basis were $1.3 billion, compared to $1.4 billion in 2007. Capital Adequacy At year end, the Companys tangible capital ratio was 1.8 percent of Managed assets, compared to 2 percent at 2007 year end. With 81 percent of our Managed loans carrying an explicit federal government guarantee and with 70 percent of our Managed loans funded for the life of the loan, we currently believe that our capital levels are appropriate. In the current economic environment, we cannot predict the availability nor cost of additional capital, should the Company determine that additional capital is necessary. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations addresses our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP). Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, Significant Accounting Policies, includes a summary of the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results may differ from these estimates under varying assumptions or conditions. On a quarterly basis, management evaluates its estimates, particularly those that include the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments and are often about matters that are inherently uncertain. The most significant estimates and assumptions relate to the following critical accounting policies that are discussed in more detail below. Allowance for Loan Losses We maintain an allowance for loan losses at an amount sufficient to absorb losses incurred in our FFELP loan and Private Education Loan portfolios at the reporting date based on a projection of estimated probable net credit losses incurred in the portfolio. We analyze those portfolios to determine the effects that the various stages of delinquency have on borrower default behavior and ultimate net charge off. We estimate the allowance for loan losses for our loan portfolio using a migration analysis of delinquent and current accounts. A migration analysis is a technique used to estimate the likelihood that a loan receivable may progress through the various delinquency stages and ultimately charge off, net of recoveries, and is a widely used reserving methodology in the consumer finance industry. We also use the migration analysis to estimate the amount of uncollectible accrued interest on Private Education Loans and write off that amount against current period interest income. The evaluation of the allowance for loan losses is inherently subjective, as it requires material estimates that may be susceptible to significant changes. Our default estimates are based on a loss confirmation period of generally two years (i.e., our allowance for loan loss covers the next two years of expected losses). The two year estimate of the allowance for loan losses is subject to a number of assumptions. If actual future performance in delinquency, charge offs and recoveries are significantly different than estimated, this could materially affect our estimate of the allowance for loan losses and the related provision for loan losses on our income statement. We believe that the Private Education Loan and FFELP allowance for loan losses are appropriate to cover probable losses incurred in the student loan portfolio. When calculating the allowance for loan losses on Private Education Loans, we divide the portfolio into categories of similar risk characteristics based on loan program type, loan status (in school, grace, forbearance, repayment, and delinquency), underwriting criteria (FICO scores), and existence or absence of a cosigner. As noted above, we use historical experience of borrower default behavior and charge offs to estimate the probable credit losses incurred in the loan portfolio at the reporting date. Also, we use historical borrower payment behavior to estimate the timing and amount of future recoveries on charged off loans. We then apply the default and collection rate projections to each category of loans. Once the quantitative calculation is 26 Table of Contents performed, management reviews the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses and determines if qualitative adjustments need to be considered. One technique for making this determination is through projection modeling, which is used to determine if the allowance for loan losses is sufficient to absorb net credit losses anticipated during the loss confirmation period. Projection modeling is an independent forward looking projection of net charge offs. Assumptions that are utilized in the projection modeling include (but are not limited to) historical experience, recent changes in collection policies and procedures, collection performance, and macroeconomic indicators. Additionally, management considers changes in laws and regulations that could potentially impact the allowance for loan losses. The majority of our Private Education Loan programs do not require that borrowers begin repayment until six months after they have graduated or otherwise left school. Consequently, our loss estimates for these programs are generally low while the borrower is in school. At December 31, 2008, 38 percent of the principal balance in the higher education Managed Private Education Loan portfolio is related to borrowers who are in in school or grace status and not required to make payments. As the current portfolio ages, an increasing percentage of the borrowers will leave school and be required to begin payments on their loans. The allowance for losses will change accordingly. Similar to the rules governing FFELP payment requirements, our collection policies allow for periods of nonpayment for borrowers requesting additional payment grace periods upon leaving school or experiencing temporary difficulty meeting payment obligations. This is referred to as forbearance status and is considered separately in our allowance for loan losses. The loss confirmation period is in alignment with our typical collection cycle and takes into account these periods of nonpayment. In general, Private Education Loan principal is charged off against the allowance when the loan exceeds 212 days delinquency. As further discussed in LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT Private Education Loan Losses Activity in the Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses, this period we corrected our charge off methodology. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded provision expense of $667 million related to the Managed Private Education Loan portfolio. This significant increase in provision primarily related to the non traditional portion of our loan portfolio (education loans made to certain borrowers that have or are expected to have a high default rate) which we had been expanding over the past few years. We have taken actions in 2008 to terminate these non traditional loan programs because the performance of these loans is materially different from our original expectations and from the rest of our Private Education Loan programs. However, there can be no assurance that our non traditional loans outstanding will not require additional significant loan provisions or have any further adverse effect on the overall credit quality of our Managed Private Education Loan portfolio. Also, we have seen higher delinquencies and continued deterioration of the overall portfolio in 2008 due primarily to the weakening U.S. economy, which has resulted in increased provisioning for expected losses. If the economy continues to weaken beyond our expectations, the expected losses resulting from our default and collection estimates embedded in the allowance for loan losses could continue to increase. FFELP loans are guaranteed as to their principal and accrued interest in the event of default subject to a Risk Sharing level set based on the date of loan disbursement. For loans disbursed after October 1, 1993, and before July 1, 2006, we receive 98 percent reimbursement on all qualifying default claims. For loans disbursed on or after July 1, 2006, we receive 97 percent reimbursement. The CCRAA reduces the Risk Sharing level for loans disbursed on or after October 1, 2012 to 95 percent reimbursement, which will impact the allowance for loan losses in the future. Similar to the Private Education allowance for loan losses, the FFELP allowance for loan losses uses historical experience of borrower default behavior and a two year loss confirmation period to estimate the credit losses incurred in the loan portfolio at the reporting date. We divide the portfolio into categories of similar risk characteristics based on loan program type, school type and loan status. We then apply the default rate projections, net of applicable Risk Sharing, to each category for the current period to perform our 27 Table of Contents quantitative calculation. Once the quantitative calculation is performed, management reviews the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses and determines if qualitative adjustments need to be considered. The 2007 FFELP provision included one time adjustments for the repeal of the Exceptional Performer program (and the resulting increase in our Risk Sharing percentage) due to the passage of the CCRAA, which was effective October 1, 2007, as well as increased provision related to the increase in our default expectations due to an increase in recent delinquencies and claim filings. The provision in 2008 increased due to an increase in delinquencies and claim filings from the weakening of the U.S. economy, as well as the portfolio transitioning to FFELP loans, which are subject to more Risk Sharing. Since we are impacted by changes in the laws and regulations of the FFELP, any changes made to the Risk Sharing levels could have a material impact on our FFELP allowance for loan losses. Also, if the economy continues to weaken beyond our expectations, the losses embedded in the FFELP allowance for loan losses could continue to increase. Premium and Discount Amortization For both federally insured and Private Education Loans, we account for premiums paid, discounts received, and capitalized direct origination costs incurred on the origination of student loans in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 91, Accounting for Nonrefundable Fees and Costs Associated with Originating or Acquiring Loans and Initial Direct Costs of Leases. The unamortized portion of the premiums and the discounts is included in the carrying value of the student loans on the consolidated balance sheet. We recognize income on our student loan portfolio based on the expected yield over the estimated life of the student loan after giving effect to the amortization of purchase premiums and accretion of student loan discounts. In arriving at the expected yield, we make a number of estimates that when changed are reflected as a cumulative adjustment to interest income in the current period. The most critical estimates for premium and discount amortization are incorporated in the Constant Prepayment Rate (CPR), which measures the rate at which loans in the portfolio pay down principal compared to their stated terms. The CPR estimate is based on historical prepayments due to consolidation activity, defaults, and term extensions from the utilization of forbearance, as well as, managements qualitative expectation of future prepayments and term extensions. In the development of the CPR estimates, the effect of consolidation activity can be a significant assumption. Between 2003 and 2006, we experienced a surge in FFELP Stafford loan consolidation activity as a result of aggressive marketing and historically low interest rates. This, in turn, has had a significant effect on premium and discount amortization in our financial statements. More recently, as a result of the CCRAA and the current U.S. economic and credit environment, we, as well as many other industry competitors, have suspended our FFELP consolidation program. In lieu of consolidation, we may offer a term extension option for FFELP loans based on the borrowers total indebtedness. Based upon these market factors, we have updated our CPR assumptions that are affected by consolidation activity, and we have updated the estimates used in developing the cash flows and effective yield calculations as they relate to the amortization of student loan premium and discount amortization. Consolidation activity affects estimates differently depending on whether the original loans being consolidated were on balance sheet or off balance sheet and whether the resulting consolidation is retained by us or consolidated with a third party. When we consolidate a loan that was in our portfolio, the term of that loan is generally extended and the term of the amortization of associated student loan premiums and discounts is likewise extended to match the new term of the loan. In that process, the unamortized premium balance must be adjusted to reflect the new expected term of the consolidated loan as if it had been in place from inception. At the beginning of 2008, when we evaluated our estimates by taking into consideration the suspension of our FFELP consolidation program, there was an expectation of increased external consolidations to third parties, but an overall decrease in total consolidation activity (when taking into account both internal consolidations and consolidations to third parties) due to a lack of financial incentive for lenders to continue offering a consolidation product. External consolidations did not significantly increase as expected; therefore, 28 Table of Contents the consolidation assumptions implemented in the first quarter of 2008 were reduced during the third quarter of 2008, as we made the decision to lower the consolidation rate as additional information became available. Additionally, in previous years, the increased activity in FFELP Consolidation Loans had led to demand for the consolidation of Private Education Loans. Private Education Consolidation Loans provide an attractive refinancing opportunity to certain borrowers because they allow borrowers to lower their monthly payments by extending the life of the loan and or lowering their interest rate. The private loan consolidation assumption was established in 2007 and was changed to explicitly consider private loan consolidation in the same manner as for FFELP. Because of limited historical data on private loan consolidation, the assumption primarily relies on near term plan data and timing assumptions. In the second quarter of 2008, we suspended making private consolidation loans due to funding limitations which impacted this assumption. The consolidation, default, term extension and other prepayment factors affecting our CPR estimates are impacted by changes in our business strategy, FFELP legislative changes, and changes to the current economic and credit environment. If our accounting estimates, especially CPRs, are different as a result of changes to our business environment or actual consolidation or default activity, the previously recognized interest income on our student loan portfolio based on the expected yield of the student loan would potentially result in a material adjustment in the current period. Fair Value Measurement On January 1, 2008, we adopted SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. This statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value within GAAP, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. Accordingly, this statement does not change which types of instruments are carried at fair value, but rather establishes the framework for measuring fair value. On February 12, 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) SFAS No. 157 2, Effective Date of SFAS No. 157, which deferred the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis. This FSP delayed the implementation of SFAS No. 157 for our accounting of goodwill, acquired intangibles, and other nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are measured at the lower of cost or market until January 1, 2009. As such, SFAS No. 157 applies to the recurring fair value measurements of our investment portfolio accounted for under SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities; our derivative portfolio and designated hedged assets or liabilities accounted for under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities; and our Residual Interest in off balance sheet securitization trusts accounted for under SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115. In general, changes in the fair value of items measured at fair value on a recurring basis will affect the consolidated statement of income and capital each period. In addition, SFAS No. 157 applies to FFELP student loans accounted for as held for sale loans under Statement of Position 01 6, Accounting by Certain Entities (Including Entities with Trade Receivables) That Lend to or Finance the Activities of Others. These loans are accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value and as such affect the consolidated statements of income and capital on a non recurring basis. Lastly, the valuation principles set forth in SFAS No. 157 apply to all financial instruments disclosed at fair value under SFAS No. 107, Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments in Note 16, Fair Values of Financial Instruments, to the consolidated financial statements. Liquidity is impacted to the extent that a decrease in fair value would result in less cash being received upon a sale of an investment. Liquidity is also impacted to the extent that changes in capital and net income affect compliance with principal financial covenants in our unsecured revolving credit facilities. Noncompliance with these covenants also impacts our ability to use our 2008 ABCP Facilities (see LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Additional Funding Sources for General Corporate Purposes). Additionally, liquidity is impacted to the extent that changes in the fair value of derivative instruments result in the movement of collateral between us and our counterparties. Collateral agreements are bilateral and are based on the derivative fair values used to determine the net exposure between us and individual counterparties. For a 29 Table of Contents general description of valuation techniques and models used for the above items, see Note 16, Fair Values of Financial Instruments, to the consolidated financial statements. For a discussion of the sensitivity of fair value estimates, see Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. In light of the recent economic turmoil occurring in the U.S., the FASB released FSP No. 157 3, Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset is Not Active, on October 10, 2008. This FSP clarified, among other things, that quotes and other market inputs need not be solely used to determine fair value if they do not relate to an active market. The FSP points out that when relevant observable market information is not available, an approach that incorporates managements judgments about the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset in a current sale transaction would be acceptable (such as a discounted cash flow analysis). Regardless of the valuation technique applied, entities must include appropriate risk adjustments that market participants would make, including adjustments for non performance risk (credit risk) and liquidity risk. In determining the fair value of the instruments that fall under SFAS No. 157, we have specifically taken into account both credit risk and liquidity risk as of December 31, 2008. Significant assumptions used in fair value measurements including those related to credit and liquidity risk are as follows: 1. Investments Our investments primarily consist of overnight/weekly maturity instruments with high credit quality counterparties. However, we have considered credit and liquidity risk involving specific instruments. These assumptions have further been validated by the successful maturity of these investments in the period immediately following the end of the reporting period. In the fourth quarter 2008, we recorded an impairment of $8 million related to our investment in the Reserve Primary Fund based on an internal assessment of the collectability of our remaining investment. See LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Counterparty Exposure for further discussion. 2. Derivatives When determining the fair value of derivatives, we take into account counterparty credit risk for positions where we are exposed to the counterparty on a net basis by assessing exposure net of collateral held. (See Note 9, Derivative Financial Instruments Risk Management Strategy, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our derivative agreements and their policy to require legally enforceable netting provisions and collateral agreements.) The net exposure for each counterparty is adjusted based on market information available for the specific counterparty including spreads from credit default swaps. Additionally, when the counterparty has exposure to the Company related to SLM Corporation derivatives, we fully collateralize the exposure minimizing the adjustment necessary to the derivative valuations for our credit risk. While trusts that contain derivatives are not required to post collateral to counterparties, the credit quality and securitized nature of the trusts minimizes any adjustments for the counterpartys exposure to the trusts. Adjustments related to credit risk reduced the overall value of our derivatives by $41 million as of December 31, 2008. We also take into account changes in liquidity related to derivative positions and the fair value. We adjusted the fair value of certain less liquid positions by approximately $201 million to take into account a significant reduction in liquidity as of December 31, 2008, related primarily to basis swaps indexed to interest rate indices with inactive markets. A major indicator of market inactivity is the widening of the bid/ask spread in these markets. In general, the widening of counterparty credit spreads and reduced liquidity for derivative instruments as indicated by wider bid/ask spreads will reduce the fair value of derivatives. 3. Residual Interests We have never sold our Residual Interests and we are unaware of any sales of student loan residual interests by others. As a result, these instruments have never been considered liquid. This lack of liquidity has always been taken into account when valuing the Residual Interests. The discount rate assumption related to the Private Education Loan Residual Interests has been increased every quarter since the fourth quarter of 2007 to take into account changes in credit and liquidity risks. The discount rate assumption related to the FFELP Loan Residual Interests was examined and deemed to accurately reflect the risks associated with these instruments each quarter through the second quarter of 2008. It was subsequently increased for both quarters ending 30 Table of Contents September 30, 2008 and December 31, 2008. We use non binding broker quotes and industry analyst reports which show changes in the indicative prices of the asset backed securities tranches immediately senior to the Residual Interest as an indication of potential changes in the discount rate used to value the Residual Interest. We also use the most current prepayment and default rate assumptions to project the expected cash flows used to value Residual Interests. These assumptions are internally developed and primarily based on analyzing the actual results of loan performance from past periods. See Note 8, Student Loan Securitization, to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of all assumption changes made during the quarter to properly determine the fair value of the Residual Interests as well as a shock analysis to fair value related to all significant assumptions. 4. Student Loans Our FFELP loans and Private Education Loans are accounted for at cost or at the lower of cost or fair value if the loan is held for sale. The fair value is disclosed in compliance with SFAS No. 107. For both FFELP loans and Private Education Loans accounted for at cost, fair value is determined by modeling loan level cash flows using stated terms of the assets and internally developed assumptions to determine aggregate portfolio yield, net present value and average life. The significant assumptions used to project cash flows are prepayment speeds, default rates, cost of funds, and required return on equity. In addition, the Floor Income component of our FFELP loan portfolio is valued through discounted cash flow and option models using both observable market inputs and internally developed inputs. Significant inputs into the models are not generally market observable. They are either derived internally through a combination of historical experience and managements qualitative expectation of future performance (in the case of prepayment speeds, default rates, and capital assumptions), or are obtained through external broker quotes (as in the case of cost of funds). When possible, market transactions are used to validate the model. In most cases these are either infrequent or not observable. For FFELP loans classified as held for sale and accounted for at the lower of cost or market, the fair value is based on the committed sales price of the various loan purchase programs established by ED. Securitization Accounting and Retained Interests We regularly engage in securitization transactions as part of our Lending segment financing strategy (see also LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Securitization Activities). In a securitization, we sell student loans to a trust that issues bonds backed by the student loans as part of the transaction. When our securitizations meet the sale criteria of SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities a Replacement of SFAS No. 125, we record a gain on the sale of the student loans, which is the difference between the allocated cost basis of the assets sold and the relative fair value of the assets received including the Residual Interest component of the Retained Interest in the securitization transaction. The Residual Interest is the right to receive cash flows from the student loans and reserve accounts in excess of the amounts needed to pay servicing, derivative costs (if any), other fees, and the principal and interest on the bonds backed by the student loans. We have not structured any securitization transaction to meet the sale criteria since March 2007 and all securitizations settled since that date have been accounted for on balance sheet as secured financings as a result. We adopted SFAS 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an Amendment of FASB Statement 115, effective January 1, 2008, whereby we elected to carry all existing Residual Interests at fair value with subsequent changes in fair value recorded in servicing and securitization revenue. Since there are no quoted market prices for our Residual Interests, we estimate their fair value both initially and each subsequent quarter using the key assumptions listed below: The CPR (see Premium and Discount Amortization above for discussion of this assumption); The expected credit losses from the underlying securitized loan portfolio. Although loss estimates related to the Allowance for Loan Loss are based on a loss confirmation period of generally two years, expected credit losses related to the Residual Interests use a life of loan default rate. The life of loan default rate is used to determine the percentage of the loans original balance that will default. The life of loan default rate is then applied using a curve to determine the percentage of the overall default rate 31 Table of Contents that should be recognized annually throughout the life of the loan. (See also Allowance for Loan Losses above for the determination of default rates and the factors that may impact them.) The discount rate used (see Fair Value Measurement discussed above). We also receive income for servicing the loans in our securitization trusts. We assess the amounts received as compensation for these activities at inception and on an ongoing basis to determine if the amounts received are adequate compensation as defined in SFAS No. 140. To the extent such compensation is determined to be no more or less than adequate compensation, no servicing asset or obligation is recorded. Derivative Accounting We use interest rate swaps, cross currency interest rate swaps, interest rate futures contracts, Floor Income Contracts and interest rate cap contracts as an integral part of our overall risk management strategy to manage interest rate and foreign currency risk arising from our fixed rate and floating rate financial instruments. We account for these instruments in accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, which requires that every derivative instrument, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, be recorded at fair value on the balance sheet as either an asset or liability. We determine the fair value for our derivative instruments primarily by using pricing models that consider current market conditions and the contractual terms of the derivative contracts. Market inputs into the model include interest rates, forward interest rate curves, volatility factors, forward foreign exchange rates, and the closing price of our stock (related to our equity forward contracts). Inputs are generally from active financial markets; however, as mentioned under Fair Value Measurements above, adjustments are made for inputs from illiquid markets and to adjust for credit risk. In some instances, counterparty valuations are used in determining the fair value of a derivative when deemed a more appropriate estimate of the fair value. Pricing models and their underlying assumptions impact the amount and timing of unrealized gains and losses recognized and, as such, the use of different pricing models or assumptions could produce different financial results. As a matter of policy, we compare the fair values of our derivatives that we calculate to those provided by our counterparties on a monthly basis. Any significant differences are identified and resolved appropriately. SFAS No. 133 requires that changes in the fair value of derivative instruments be recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria as specified by SFAS No. 133 are met. We believe that all of our derivatives are effective economic hedges and are a critical element of our interest rate risk management strategy. However, under SFAS No. 133, some of our derivatives, primarily Floor Income Contracts, certain Eurodollar futures contracts, basis swaps and equity forwards, do not qualify for hedge treatment under SFAS No. 133. Therefore, changes in market value along with the periodic net settlements must be recorded through the gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net line in the consolidated statement of income with no consideration for the corresponding change in fair value of the hedged item. The derivative market value adjustment is primarily caused by interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate volatility, changing credit spreads during the period, and changes in our stock price (related to equity forwards), as well as, the volume and term of derivatives not receiving hedge accounting treatment. See also BUSINESS SEGMENTS Limitations of Core Earnings Pre tax Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP by Business Segment Derivative Accounting for a detailed discussion of our accounting for derivatives. 32 Table of Contents SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Condensed Statements of Income Increase (Decrease) Years Ended December 31, 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 2008 2007 2006 $ % $ % Net interest income $ 1,365 $ 1,588 $ 1,454 $ (223 ) (14 )% $ 134 9 % Less: provisions for loan losses 720 1,015 287 (295 ) (29 ) 728 254 Net interest income after provisions for loan losses 645 573 1,167 72 13 (594 ) (51 ) Gains on student loan securitizations 367 902 (367 ) (100 ) (535 ) (59 ) Servicing and securitization revenue 262 437 553 (175 ) (40 ) (116 ) (21 ) Losses on loans and securities, net (186 ) (95 ) (49 ) (91 ) (96 ) (46 ) (94 ) Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net (445 ) (1,361 ) (339 ) 916 67 (1,022 ) (301 ) Contingency fee revenue 340 336 397 4 1 (61 ) (15 ) Collections revenue (loss) (64 ) 272 240 (336 ) (124 ) 32 13 Guarantor servicing fees 121 156 132 (35 ) (22 ) 24 18 Other income 392 385 338 7 2 47 14 Restructuring expenses 84 23 61 265 23 100 Operating expenses 1,357 1,529 1,346 (172 ) (11 ) 183 14 Pre tax income (loss) (376 ) (482 ) 1,995 106 22 (2,477 ) (124 ) Income tax expense (benefit) (167 ) 412 834 (579 ) (141 ) (422 ) (51 ) Minority interest in net earnings of subsidiaries 4 2 4 2 100 (2 ) (50 ) Net income (loss) (213 ) (896 ) 1,157 683 76 (2,053 ) (177 ) Preferred stock dividends 111 37 36 74 200 1 3 Net income (loss) attributable to common stock $ (324 ) $ (933 ) $ 1,121 $ 609 65 % $ (2,054 ) (183 )% Basic earnings (loss) per common share $ (.69 ) $ (2.26 ) $ 2.73 $ 1.57 69 % $ (4.99 ) (183 )% Diluted earnings (loss) per common share $ (.69 ) $ (2.26 ) $ 2.63 $ 1.57 69 % $ (4.89 ) (186 )% Dividends per common share $ $ .25 $ .97 $ (.25 ) (100 )% $ (.72 ) (74 )% 33 Table of Contents Condensed Balance Sheets Increase (Decrease) December 31, 2008 vs. 2007 2008 2007 $ % Assets FFELP Stafford and Other Student Loans, net $ 44,025 $ 35,726 $ 8,299 23 % FFELP Stafford Loans Held for Sale 8,451 8,451 100 FFELP Consolidation Loans, net 71,744 73,609 (1,865 ) (3 ) Private Education Loans, net 20,582 14,818 5,764 39 Other loans, net 729 1,174 (445 ) (38 ) Cash and investments 5,112 10,546 (5,434 ) (52 ) Restricted cash and investments 3,535 4,600 (1,065 ) (23 ) Retained Interest in off balance sheet securitized loans 2,200 3,044 (844 ) (28 ) Goodwill and acquired intangible assets, net 1,249 1,301 (52 ) (4 ) Other assets 11,141 10,747 394 4 Total assets $ 168,768 $ 155,565 $ 13,203 8 % Liabilities and Stockholders Equity Short term borrowings $ 41,933 $ 35,947 $ 5,986 17 % Long term borrowings 118,225 111,098 7,127 6 Other liabilities 3,604 3,285 319 10 Total liabilities 163,762 150,330 13,432 9 Minority interest in subsidiaries 7 11 (4 ) (36 ) Stockholders equity before treasury stock 6,855 7,055 (200 ) (3 ) Common stock held in treasury 1,856 1,831 25 1 Total stockholders equity 4,999 5,224 (225 ) (4 ) Total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 168,768 $ 155,565 $ 13,203 8 % RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We present the results of operations first on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. As discussed in Item 1. Business, we have two primary business segments, Lending and APG, plus a Corporate and Other business segment. Since these business segments operate in distinct business environments, the discussion following the Consolidated Earnings Summary is primarily presented on a segment basis. See BUSINESS SEGMENTS for further discussion on the components of each segment. Securitization gains and the ongoing servicing and securitization income are included in LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Securitization Activities. The discussion of derivative market value gains and losses is under BUSINESS SEGMENTS Limitations of Core Earnings Pre tax Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP by Business Segment Derivative Accounting. The discussion of goodwill and acquired intangible amortization and impairment is discussed under BUSINESS SEGMENTS Limitations of Core Earnings Pre tax Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP by Business Segment Acquired Intangibles. CONSOLIDATED EARNINGS SUMMARY The main drivers of our net income are the growth in our Managed student loan portfolio, which drives net interest income and securitization transactions, the spread we earn on student loans, unrealized gains and losses on derivatives that do not receive hedge accounting treatment, the timing and size of securitization gains, growth in our fee based business, and expense control. 34 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 For the year ended December 31, 2008, our net loss was $213 million or $.69 diluted loss per share, compared to a net loss of $896 million, or $2.26 diluted loss per share, for the year December 31, 2007. The effective tax rate for those periods was 45 percent and (86) percent, respectively. The movement in the effective tax rate was primarily driven by the permanent tax impact of excluding non taxable gains and losses on equity forward contracts which were marked to market through earnings under SFAS No. 133 in 2007. Pre tax loss decreased by $106 million versus the year ago period primarily due to a decrease in net losses on derivative and hedging activities from $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 to $445 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was primarily a result of the mark to market on the equity forward contracts in the fourth quarter of 2007. There were no gains on student loan securitizations in the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to gains of $367 million in the year ago period. We did not complete any off balance sheet securitizations in the year ended December 31, 2008, versus one Private Education Loan securitization in the year ago period. We adopted SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115, on January 1, 2008, and elected the fair value option on all of the Residual Interests effective January 1, 2008. We made this election in order to simplify the accounting for Residual Interests by having all Residual Interests under one accounting model. Prior to this election, Residual Interests were accounted for either under SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, with changes in fair value recorded through other comprehensive income or under SFAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments, with changes in fair value recorded through income. We reclassified the related accumulated other comprehensive income of $195 million into retained earnings and as a result equity was not impacted at transition on January 1, 2008. Changes in fair value of Residual Interests on and after January 1, 2008 are recorded through servicing and securitization income. We have not elected the fair value option for any other financial instruments at this time. Servicing and securitization revenue decreased by $175 million from $437 million in the year ended December 31, 2007 to $262 million in the year ended December 31, 2008. This decrease was primarily due to a $425 million unrealized mark to market loss recorded under SFAS No. 159 in the current year compared to a $278 million unrealized mark to market loss in the prior year, which included both impairment and an unrealized mark to market gain recorded under SFAS No. 155. The increase in the unrealized mark to market loss in 2008 versus 2007 was primarily due to increases in the discount rates used to value the Residual Interests. See LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Residual Interest in Securitized Receivables for further discussion of the factors impacting the fair values. Net interest income after provisions for loan losses increased by $72 million in the year ended December 31, 2008 from the prior year. This increase was due to a $296 million decrease in provisions for loan losses, offset by a $224 million decrease in net interest income. The decrease in net interest income was primarily due to a decrease in the student loan spread (see LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT Net Interest Income Net Interest Margin On Balance Sheet), an increase in the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities Fees, partially offset by a $25 billion increase in the average balance of on balance sheet student loans. The decrease in provisions for loan losses relates to the higher provision amounts in the fourth quarter of 2007 for Private Education Loans, FFELP loans and mortgage loans, primarily due to a weakening U.S. economy. The significant provision in the fourth quarter of 2007 primarily related to the non traditional portfolio which was particularly impacted by the weakening U.S. economy (see LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT Private Education Loan Losses Private Education Loan Delinquencies and Forbearance and Activity in the Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses). For the year ended December 31, 2008, fee and other income and collections revenue totaled $790 million, a $359 million decrease from $1.1 billion in the prior year. This decrease was primarily the result of $368 million of impairment related to both declines in the fair value of mortgage loans and real estate held by our mortgage purchased paper subsidiary and related to our non mortgage purchased paper subsidiary recorded in 2008 compared to $21 million in 2007 (see ASSET PERFORMANCE GROUP BUSINESS SEGMENT). 35 Table of Contents Losses on loans and securities, net, totaled $186 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, a $91 million increase from $95 million incurred in the year ended December 31, 2007. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2008, these losses were primarily the result of our repurchase of delinquent Private Education Loans from our off balance sheet securitization trusts. When Private Education Loans in our off balance sheet securitization trusts that settled before September 30, 2005 became 180 days delinquent, we previously exercised our contingent call option to repurchase these loans at par value out of the trusts and recorded a loss for the difference in the par value paid and the fair market value of the loans at the time of purchase. We do not hold the contingent call option for any trusts that settled after September 30, 2005. Beginning in October 2008, we decided to no longer exercise our contingent call option. The loss in the fourth quarter of 2008 primarily relates to the sale of approximately $1.0 billion FFELP loans to ED under the ECASLA, which resulted in a $53 million loss. See LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES ED Funding Programs for further discussion. We are restructuring our business in response to the impact of CCRAA and current challenges in the capital markets. In conjunction with our restructuring plan, we are refocusing our lending activities, exiting certain customer relationships and product lines, and winding down our debt purchase paper businesses. As a result, during 2008 we have reduced our operating expenses by over 20 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to the fourth quarter of 2007, after adjusting for restructuring costs, growth and other investments. As part of our cost reduction efforts, restructuring expenses of $84 million and $23 million were recognized in the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Restructuring expenses from the fourth quarter of 2007 through the fourth quarter of 2008 totaled $106 million. The majority of these restructuring expenses were severance costs related to the completed and planned elimination of approximately 2,900 positions, or approximately 26 percent of the workforce. We estimate approximately $8 million to $15 million of additional restructuring expenses associated with our current cost reduction efforts will be incurred and our current restructuring plan will be substantially complete by the end of 2009. During 2009, we will continue to review our business to determine whether there are other opportunities to further streamline the business. Operating expenses totaled $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The year over year reduction is primarily due to our cost reduction efforts discussed above. Of these amounts, $91 million and $112 million, respectively, relate to amortization and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 For the year ended December 31, 2007, our net loss was $896 million, or $2.26 diluted loss per share, compared to net income of $1.2 billion, or $2.63 diluted earnings per share, in the year ago period. The effective tax rate in those periods was (86) percent and 42 percent, respectively. The movement in the effective tax rate was primarily driven by the permanent tax impact of excluding non taxable gains and losses on equity forward contracts which are marked to market through earnings under the FASBs SFAS No. 133. Pre tax income decreased by $2.5 billion versus the year ended December 31, 2006 primarily due to a $1.0 billion increase in net losses on derivative and hedging activities, which was mostly comprised of losses on our equity forward contracts. Losses on derivative and hedging activities were $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to $339 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. Pre tax income for the year ended December 31, 2007 also decreased versus the year ended December 31, 2006 due to a $535 million decrease in gains on student loan securitizations. The securitization gain in 2007 was the result of one Private Education Loan securitization that had a pre tax gain of $367 million or 18.4 percent of the amount securitized. In the year ago period, there were three Private Education Loan securitizations that had total pre tax gains of $830 million or 16.3 percent of the amount securitized. For the year ended December 31, 2007, servicing and securitization income was $437 million, a $116 million decrease from the year ended December 31, 2006. This decrease was primarily due to a $97 million increase in impairment losses which was mainly the result of FFELP Stafford Consolidation Loan activity exceeding expectations, increased Private Education Consolidation Loan activity, increased Private Education Loan expected default activity, and an increase in the discount rate used to value the Private Education Loan 36 Table of Contents Residual Interests (see LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Residual Interest in Securitized Receivables). Net interest income after provisions for loan losses decreased by $594 million versus the year ended December 31, 2006. The decrease was due to the year over year increase in the provisions for loan losses of $728 million, which offset the year over year $134 million increase in net interest income. The increase in net interest income was primarily due to an increase of $30.8 billion in the average balance of on balance sheet interest earning assets offset by a decrease in the student loan spread (see LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT Net Interest Income Net Interest Margin On Balance Sheet Student Loan Spread On Balance Sheet). The increase in provisions for loan losses relates to higher provision amounts for Private Education Loans, FFELP loans, and mortgage loans primarily due to a weakening U.S. economy (see LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT Activity in the Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses; and Total Provisions for Loan Losses). Fee and other income and collections revenue increased $42 million from $1.11 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006 to $1.15 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007. As noted above, we began restructuring our business in the fourth quarter of 2007 in response to the impact of the CCRAA and current challenges in the capital markets. As part of our cost reduction efforts, $23 million of severance costs related to the elimination of approximately 400 positions across all areas of the Company were incurred in the fourth quarter of 2007. Operating expenses increased by $183 million year over year. This increase in operating expenses was primarily due to $56 million in the Proposed Merger related expenses incurred in 2007. Operating expenses in 2007 also included $93 million related to a full year of expenses for Upromise, acquired in August 2006, compared to $33 million incurred in 2006. Our Managed student loan portfolio grew by $21.5 billion (or 15 percent), from $142.1 billion at December 31, 2006 to $163.6 billion at December 31, 2007. In 2007 we acquired $40.3 billion of student loans, an 8 percent increase over the $37.4 billion acquired in the year ago period. The 2007 acquisitions included $9.3 billion in Private Education Loans, an 11 percent increase over the $8.4 billion acquired in 2006. In the year ended December 31, 2007, we originated $25.2 billion of student loans through our Preferred Channel, an increase of 8 percent over the $23.4 billion originated in the year ago period. Other Income The following table summarizes the components of Other income in the consolidated statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Late fees and forbearance fees $ 143 $ 136 $ 121 Asset servicing and other transaction fees 108 110 42 Loan servicing fees 26 26 48 Gains on sales of mortgages and other loan fees 3 11 15 Other 112 102 112 Total other income $ 392 $ 385 $ 338 BUSINESS SEGMENTS The results of operations of the Companys Lending and APG operating segments are presented below. These defined business segments operate in distinct business environments and are considered reportable segments under SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, based on quantitative thresholds applied to the Companys financial statements. In addition, we provide other complementary products and services, including guarantor and student loan servicing, through smaller 37 Table of Contents operating segments that do not meet such thresholds and are aggregated in the Corporate and Other reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. The management reporting process measures the performance of the Companys operating segments based on the management structure of the Company as well as the methodology used by management to evaluate performance and allocate resources. In accordance with the Rules and Regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), we prepare financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In addition to evaluating the Companys GAAP based financial information, management, including the Companys chief operation decision maker, evaluates the performance of the Companys operating segments based on their profitability on a basis that, as allowed under SFAS No. 131, differs from GAAP. We refer to managements basis of evaluating our segment results as Core Earnings presentations for each business segment and we refer to these performance measures in our presentations with credit rating agencies and lenders. Accordingly, information regarding the Companys reportable segments is provided herein based on Core Earnings, which are discussed in detail below. Our Core Earnings are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Core Earnings net income reflects only current period adjustments to GAAP net income as described below. Unlike financial accounting, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting and as a result, our management reporting is not necessarily comparable with similar information for any other financial institution. The Companys operating segments are defined by the products and services they offer or the types of customers they serve, and they reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by management. Intersegment revenues and expenses are netted within the appropriate financial statement line items consistent with the income statement presentation provided to management. Changes in management structure or allocation methodologies and procedures may result in changes in reported segment financial information. Core Earnings are the primary financial performance measures used by management to develop the Companys financial plans, track results, and establish corporate performance targets and incentive compensation. While Core Earnings are not a substitute for reported results under GAAP, the Company relies on Core Earnings in operating its business because Core Earnings permit management to make meaningful period to period comparisons of the operational and performance indicators that are most closely assessed by management. Management believes this information provides additional insight into the financial performance of the core business activities of our operating segments. Accordingly, the tables presented below reflect Core Earnings which is reviewed and utilized by management to manage the business for each of the Companys reportable segments. A further discussion regarding Core Earnings is included under Limitations of Core Earnings and Pre tax Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP by Business Segment. 38 Table of Contents The LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT section includes all discussion of income and related expenses associated with the net interest margin, the student loan spread and its components, the provisions for loan losses, and other fees earned on our Managed portfolio of student loans. The APG BUSINESS SEGMENT section reflects the fees earned and expenses incurred in providing accounts receivable management and collection services. Our CORPORATE AND OTHER BUSINESS SEGMENT section includes our remaining fee businesses and other corporate expenses that do not pertain directly to the primary operating segments identified above. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Corporate Lending APG and Other Interest income: FFELP Stafford and Other Student Loans $ 2,216 $ $ FFELP Consolidation Loans 3,748 Private Education Loans 2,752 Other loans 83 Cash and investments 304 25 Total interest income 9,103 25 Total interest expense 6,665 25 19 Net interest income (loss) 2,438 (25 ) 6 Less: provisions for loan losses 1,029 Net interest income (loss) after provisions for loan losses 1,409 (25 ) 6 Contingency fee revenue 340 Collections revenue (loss) (63 ) Guarantor serving fees 121 Other income 180 199 Total other income 180 277 320 Restructuring expenses 49 12 23 Operating expenses 589 398 277 Total expenses 638 410 300 Income (loss) before income taxes and minority interest in net earnings of subsidiaries 951 (158 ) 26 Income tax expense (benefit)(1) 336 (56 ) 9 Minority interest in net earnings of subsidiaries 4 Core Earnings net income (loss) $ 615 $ (106 ) $ 17 (1) Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segment. 39 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2007 Corporate Lending APG and Other Interest income: FFELP Stafford and Other Student Loans $ 2,848 $ $ FFELP Consolidation Loans 5,522 Private Education Loans 2,835 Other loans 106 Cash and investments 868 21 Total interest income 12,179 21 Total interest expense 9,597 27 21 Net interest income (loss) 2,582 (27 ) Less: provisions for loan losses 1,394 1 Net interest income (loss) after provisions for loan losses 1,188 (27 ) (1 ) Contingency fee revenue 336 Collections revenue 269 Guarantor serving fees 156 Other income 194 218 Total other income 194 605 374 Restructuring expenses 19 2 2 Operating expenses 690 388 339 Total expenses 709 390 341 Income before income taxes and minority interest in net earnings of subsidiaries 673 188 32 Income tax expense(1) 249 70 12 Minority interest in net earnings of subsidiaries 2 Core Earnings net income $ 424 $ 116 $ 20 (1) Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segment. 40 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2006 Corporate Lending APG and Other Interest income: FFELP Stafford and Other Student Loans $ 2,771 $ $ FFELP Consolidation Loans 4,690 Private Education Loans 2,092 Other loans 98 Cash and investments 705 7 Total interest income 10,356 7 Total interest expense 7,877 23 12 Net interest income (loss) 2,479 (23 ) (5 ) Less: provisions for loan losses 303 Net interest income (loss) after provisions for loan losses 2,176 (23 ) (5 ) Contingency fee revenue 397 Collections revenue 239 Guarantor servicing fees 132 Other income 177 155 Total other income 177 636 287 Restructuring expenses Operating expenses 645 358 250 Total expenses 645 358 250 Income before income taxes and minority interest in net earnings of subsidiaries 1,708 255 32 Income tax expense(1) 632 94 12 Minority interest in net earnings of subsidiaries 4 Core Earnings net income $ 1,076 $ 157 $ 20 (1) Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segment. Limitations of Core Earnings While GAAP provides a uniform, comprehensive basis of accounting, for the reasons described above, management believes that Core Earnings are an important additional tool for providing a more complete understanding of the Companys results of operations. Nevertheless, Core Earnings are subject to certain general and specific limitations that investors should carefully consider. For example, as stated above, unlike financial accounting, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting. Our Core Earnings are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Unlike GAAP, Core Earnings reflect only current period adjustments to GAAP. Accordingly, the Companys Core Earnings presentation does not represent a comprehensive basis of accounting. Investors, therefore, may not compare our Companys performance with that of other financial services companies based upon Core Earnings. Core Earnings results are only meant to supplement GAAP results by providing additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely used by management, the Companys board of directors, rating agencies and lenders to assess performance. Other limitations arise from the specific adjustments that management makes to GAAP results to derive Core Earnings results. For example, in reversing the unrealized gains and losses that result from 41 Table of Contents SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge treatment, as well as on derivatives that do qualify but are in part ineffective because they are not perfect hedges, we focus on the long term economic effectiveness of those instruments relative to the underlying hedged item and isolate the effects of interest rate volatility, changing credit spreads and changes in our stock price on the fair value of such instruments during the period. Under GAAP, the effects of these factors on the fair value of the derivative instruments (but not on the underlying hedged item) tend to show more volatility in the short term. While our presentation of our results on a Core Earnings basis provides important information regarding the performance of our Managed portfolio, a limitation of this presentation is that we are presenting the ongoing spread income on loans that have been sold to a trust managed by us. While we believe that our Core Earnings presentation presents the economic substance of our Managed loan portfolio, it understates earnings volatility from securitization gains. Our Core Earnings results exclude certain Floor Income, which is real cash income, from our reported results and therefore may understate earnings in certain periods. Managements financial planning and valuation of operating results, however, does not take into account Floor Income because of its inherent uncertainty, except when it is economically hedged through Floor Income Contracts. Pre tax Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP by Business Segment Our Core Earnings are the primary financial performance measures used by management to evaluate performance and to allocate resources. Accordingly, financial information is reported to management on a Core Earnings basis by reportable segment, as these are the measures used regularly by our chief operating decision makers. Our Core Earnings are used in developing our financial plans and tracking results, and also in establishing corporate performance targets and incentive compensation. Management believes this information provides additional insight into the financial performance of the Companys core business activities. Core Earnings net income reflects only current period adjustments to GAAP net income, as described in the more detailed discussion of the differences between Core Earnings and GAAP that follows, which includes further detail on each specific adjustment required to reconcile our Core Earnings segment presentation to our GAAP earnings. Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Corporate Corporate Corporate Lending APG and Other Lending APG and Other Lending APG and Other Core Earnings adjustments: Net impact of securitization accounting $ (442 ) $ $ $ 247 $ $ $ 532 $ $ Net impact of derivative accounting (560 ) 217 (1,558 ) 131 (360 ) Net impact of Floor Income (102 ) (169 ) (209 ) Net impact of acquired intangibles (53 ) (24 ) (14 ) (55 ) (28 ) (29 ) (49 ) (34 ) (11 ) Total Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP $ (1,157 ) $ (24 ) $ (14 ) $ 240 $ (28 ) $ (1,587 ) $ 405 $ (34 ) $ (371 ) 1) Securitization Accounting: Under GAAP, certain securitization transactions in our Lending operating segment are accounted for as sales of assets. Under Core Earnings for the Lending operating segment, we present all securitization transactions on a Core Earnings basis as long term non recourse financings. The upfront gains on sale from securitization transactions, as well as ongoing servicing and securitization revenue presented in accordance with GAAP, are excluded from Core Earnings and are replaced by interest income, provisions for loan losses, and interest expense as earned or incurred on the securitization loans. We also exclude transactions with our off balance sheet trusts from Core Earnings as they are considered intercompany transactions on a Core Earnings basis. 42 Table of Contents The following table summarizes Core Earnings securitization adjustments for the Lending operating segment for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Core Earnings securitization adjustments: Net interest income on securitized loans, before provisions for loan losses and before intercompany transactions $ (872 ) $ (818 ) $ (896 ) Provisions for loan losses 309 380 16 Net interest income on securitized loans, after provisions for loan losses, before intercompany transactions (563 ) (438 ) (880 ) Intercompany transactions with off balance sheet trusts (141 ) (119 ) (43 ) Net interest income on securitized loans, after provisions for loan losses (704 ) (557 ) (923 ) Gains on student loan securitizations 367 902 Servicing and securitization revenue 262 437 553 Total Core Earnings securitization adjustments(1) $ (442 ) $ 247 $ 532 (1) Negative amounts are subtracted from Core Earnings net income to arrive at GAAP net income and positive amounts are added to Core Earnings net income to arrive at GAAP net income. Intercompany transactions with off balance sheet trusts in the above table relate primarily to losses that result from the repurchase of delinquent loans from our off balance sheet securitization trusts. When Private Education Loans in our securitization trusts settling before September 30, 2005 became 180 days delinquent, we previously exercised our contingent call option to repurchase these loans at par value out of the trust and recorded a loss for the difference in the par value paid and the fair market value of the loan at the time of purchase. We do not hold the contingent call option for any trusts settled after September 30, 2005. In October 2008, the Company decided to no longer exercise its contingent call option. 2) Derivative Accounting: Core Earnings exclude periodic unrealized gains and losses that are caused primarily by the one sided mark to market derivative valuations prescribed by SFAS No. 133 on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge treatment under GAAP. These unrealized gains and losses occur in our Lending operating segment, and occurred in our Corporate and Other reportable segment related to equity forward contracts prior to 2008. In our Core Earnings presentation, we recognize the economic effect of these hedges, which generally results in any cash paid or received being recognized ratably as an expense or revenue over the hedged items life. Core Earnings also exclude the gain or loss on equity forward contracts that under SFAS No. 133, are required to be accounted for as derivatives and are marked to market through earnings. SFAS No. 133 requires that changes in the fair value of derivative instruments be recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria, as specified by SFAS No. 133, are met. We believe that our derivatives are effective economic hedges, and as such, are a critical element of our interest rate risk management strategy. However, some of our derivatives, primarily Floor Income Contracts, certain basis swaps and equity forward contracts (discussed in detail below), do not qualify for hedge treatment as defined by SFAS No. 133, and the stand alone derivative must be marked to market in the income statement with no consideration for the corresponding change in fair value of the hedged item. The gains and losses described in Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net are primarily caused by interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate volatility, changing credit spreads and changes in our stock price during the period as well as the volume and term of derivatives not receiving hedge treatment. Our Floor Income Contracts are written options that must meet more stringent requirements than other hedging relationships to achieve hedge effectiveness under SFAS No. 133. Specifically, our Floor Income Contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment because the pay down of principal of the student loans underlying the Floor Income embedded in those student loans does not exactly match the change in the notional amount of our written Floor Income Contracts. Under SFAS No. 133, the upfront payment is deemed 43 Table of Contents a liability and changes in fair value are recorded through income throughout the life of the contract. The change in the value of Floor Income Contracts is primarily caused by changing interest rates that cause the amount of Floor Income earned on the underlying student loans and paid to the counterparties to vary. This is economically offset by the change in value of the student loan portfolio, including our Retained Interests, earning Floor Income but that offsetting change in value is not recognized under SFAS No. 133. We believe the Floor Income Contracts are economic hedges because they effectively fix the amount of Floor Income earned over the contract period, thus eliminating the timing and uncertainty that changes in interest rates can have on Floor Income for that period. Prior to SFAS No. 133, we accounted for Floor Income Contracts as hedges and amortized the upfront cash compensation ratably over the lives of the contracts. Basis swaps are used to convert floating rate debt from one floating interest rate index to another to better match the interest rate characteristics of the assets financed by that debt. We primarily use basis swaps to change the index of our floating rate debt to better match the cash flows of our student loan assets that are primarily indexed to a commercial paper, Prime or Treasury bill index. In addition, we use basis swaps to convert debt indexed to the Consumer Price Index to three month LIBOR debt. SFAS No. 133 requires that when using basis swaps, the change in the cash flows of the hedge effectively offset both the change in the cash flows of the asset and the change in the cash flows of the liability. Our basis swaps hedge variable interest rate risk; however, they generally do not meet this effectiveness test because the index of the swap does not exactly match the index of the hedged assets as required by SFAS No. 133. Additionally, some of our FFELP loans can earn at either a variable or a fixed interest rate depending on market interest rates. We also have basis swaps that do not meet the SFAS No. 133 effectiveness test that economically hedge off balance sheet instruments. As a result, under GAAP these swaps are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value reflected currently in the income statement. Under SFAS No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity, equity forward contracts that allow a net settlement option either in cash or the Companys stock are required to be accounted for as derivatives in accordance with SFAS No. 133. As a result, we account for our equity forward contracts as derivatives in accordance with SFAS No. 133 and mark them to market through earnings. They do not qualify as effective SFAS No. 133 hedges, as a requirement to achieve hedge accounting is the hedged item must impact net income and the settlement of these contracts through the purchase of our own stock does not impact net income. The Company settled all of its equity forward contracts in January 2008. The table below quantifies the adjustments for derivative accounting under SFAS No. 133 on our net income for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 when compared with the accounting principles employed in all years prior to the SFAS No. 133 implementation. Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Core Earnings derivative adjustments: Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net, included in other income(1) $ (445 ) $ (1,361 ) $ (339 ) Less: Realized (gains) losses on derivative and hedging activities, net(1) (107 ) 18 109 Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net (552 ) (1,343 ) (230 ) Other pre SFAS No. 133 accounting adjustments (8 ) 2 1 Total net impact of SFAS No. 133 derivative accounting(2) $ (560 ) $ (1,341 ) $ (229 ) (1) See Reclassification of Realized Gains (Losses) on Derivative and Hedging Activities below for a detailed breakdown of the components of realized losses on derivative and hedging activities. (2) Negative amounts are subtracted from Core Earnings net income to arrive at GAAP net income and positive amounts are added to Core Earnings net income to arrive at GAAP net income. 44 Table of Contents Reclassification of Realized Gains (Losses) on Derivative and Hedging Activities SFAS No. 133 requires net settlement income/expense on derivatives and realized gains/losses related to derivative dispositions (collectively referred to as realized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities) that do not qualify as hedges under SFAS No. 133 to be recorded in a separate income statement line item below net interest income. The table below summarizes the realized losses on derivative and hedging activities, and the associated reclassification on a Core Earnings basis for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Reclassification of realized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities: Net settlement expense on Floor Income Contracts reclassified to net interest income $ (488 ) $ (67 ) $ (50 ) Net settlement income (expense) on interest rate swaps reclassified to net interest income 563 47 (59 ) Foreign exchange derivatives gains/(losses) reclassified to other income 11 Net realized gains (losses) on terminated derivative contracts reclassified to other income 21 2 Total reclassifications of realized (gains)losses on derivative and hedging activities 107 (18 ) (109 ) Add: Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net(1) (552 ) (1,343 ) (230 ) Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net $ (445 ) $ (1,361 ) $ (339 ) (1) Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net comprises the following unrealized mark to market gains (losses): Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Floor Income Contracts $ (529 ) $ (209 ) $ 176 Equity forward contracts (1,558 ) (360 ) Basis swaps (239 ) 360 (58 ) Other 216 64 12 Total unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net $ (552 ) $ (1,343 ) $ (230 ) Unrealized gains and losses on Floor Income Contracts are primarily caused by changes in interest rates. In general, an increase in interest rates results in an unrealized gain and vice versa. Unrealized gains and losses on equity forward contracts fluctuate with changes in the Companys stock price. Unrealized gains and losses on basis swaps result from changes in the spread between indices and on changes in the forward interest rate curves that impact basis swaps hedging repricing risk between quarterly reset debt and daily reset assets. Other unrealized gains are primarily the result of ineffectiveness on cross currency interest rate swaps hedging foreign currency denominated debt related to differences between forward and spot foreign currency exchange rates. 3) Floor Income: The timing and amount (if any) of Floor Income earned in our Lending operating segment is uncertain and in excess of expected spreads. Therefore, we exclude such income from Core Earnings when it is not economically hedged. We employ derivatives, primarily Floor Income Contracts and futures, to economically hedge Floor Income. As discussed above in Derivative Accounting, these derivatives do not qualify as effective accounting hedges, and therefore, under GAAP, they are marked to market through the gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net line in the consolidated statement of income with no offsetting gain or loss recorded for the economically hedged items. For Core Earnings, we reverse the 45 Table of Contents fair value adjustments on the Floor Income Contracts and futures economically hedging Floor Income and include the amortization of net premiums received in income. The following table summarizes the Floor Income adjustments in our Lending operating segment for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Core earnings Floor Income adjustments: Floor Income earned on Managed loans, net of payments on Floor Income Contracts $ 69 $ $ Amortization of net premiums on Floor Income Contracts and futures in net interest income (171 ) (169 ) $ (209 ) Total Core Earnings Floor Income adjustments(1) $ (102 ) $ (169 ) $ (209 ) (1) Negative amounts are subtracted from Core Earnings net income to arrive at GAAP net income and positive amounts are added to Core Earnings net income to arrive at GAAP net income. 4) Acquired Intangibles: Our Core Earnings exclude goodwill and intangible impairment and the amortization of acquired intangibles. These amounts totaled $91 million, $112 million and $94 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. As discussed in ASSET PERFORMANCE GROUP BUSINESS SEGMENT, the Company decided to wind down its purchased paper businesses. This decision resulted in $36 million of impairment of intangible assets for the year ended December 31, 2008, of which $28 million related to the impairment of two trade names and $8 million related to certain banking customer relationships. In 2007, we recognized impairments related principally to our mortgage origination and mortgage purchased paper businesses including approximately $20 million of goodwill and $10 million of value attributable to certain banking relationships. In connection with our acquisition of Southwest Student Services Corporation and Washington Transferee Corporation, we acquired certain tax exempt bonds that enabled us to earn a 9.5 percent SAP rate on student loans funded by those bonds in indentured trusts. In 2007 and 2006, we recognized intangible impairments of $9 million and $21 million, respectively, due to changes in projected interest rates used to initially value the intangible asset and to a regulatory change that restricts the loans on which we are entitled to earn a 9.5 percent yield. LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT In our Lending business segment, we originate and acquire federally guaranteed student loans and Private Education Loans, which are not federally guaranteed. Typically a Private Education Loan is made in conjunction with a FFELP Stafford loan and as a result is marketed through the same marketing channels as FFELP loans. While FFELP loans and Private Education Loans have different overall risk profiles due to the federal guarantee of the FFELP loans, they currently share many of the same characteristics such as similar repayment terms, the same marketing channel and sales force, and are originated and serviced on the same servicing platform. Finally, where possible, the borrower receives a single bill for both FFELP and Private Education Loans. An overview of this segment and recent developments that have significantly impacted this segment are included in the Item 1. Business, section of this document. 46 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the Core Earnings results of operations for our Lending business segment. Years Ended December 31, % Increase (Decrease) 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 Core Earnings interest income: FFELP Stafford and Other Student Loans $ 2,216 $ 2,848 $ 2,771 (22 )% 3 % FFELP Consolidation Loans 3,748 5,522 4,690 (32 ) 18 Private Education Loans 2,752 2,835 2,092 (3 ) 36 Other loans 83 106 98 (22 ) 8 Cash and investments 304 868 705 (65 ) 23 Total Core Earnings interest income 9,103 12,179 10,356 (25 ) 18 Total Core Earnings interest expense 6,665 9,597 7,877 (31 ) 22 Net Core Earnings interest income 2,438 2,582 2,479 (6 ) 4 Less: provisions for loan losses 1,029 1,394 303 (26 ) 360 Net Core Earnings interest income after provisions for loan losses 1,409 1,188 2,176 19 (45 ) Other income 180 194 177 (7 ) 10 Restructuring expenses 49 19 158 100 Operating expenses 589 690 645 (15 ) 7 Total expenses 638 709 645 (10 ) 10 Income before income taxes and minority interest in net earnings of subsidiaries 951 673 1,708 41 (61 ) Income tax expense 336 249 632 35 (61 ) Income before minority interest in net earnings of subsidiaries 615 424 1,076 45 (61 ) Minority interest in net earnings of subsidiaries Core Earnings net income $ 615 $ 424 $ 1,076 45 % (61 )% Net Interest Income Changes in net interest income are primarily due to fluctuations in the student loan and other asset spread discussed below, the growth of our student loan portfolio, and changes in the level of cash and investments we hold on our balance sheet for liquidity purposes. 47 Table of Contents Average Balance Sheets On Balance Sheet The following table reflects the rates earned on interest earning assets and paid on interest bearing liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. This table reflects the net interest margin for the entire Company for our on balance sheet assets. It is included in the Lending business segment discussion because the Lending business segment includes substantially all interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Balance Rate Balance Rate Balance Rate Average Assets FFELP Stafford and Other Student Loans $ 44,291 4.50 % $ 31,294 6.59 % $ 21,152 6.66 % FFELP Consolidation Loans 73,091 4.35 67,918 6.39 55,119 6.43 Private Education Loans 19,276 9.01 12,507 11.65 8,585 11.90 Other loans 955 8.66 1,246 8.49 1,155 8.48 Cash and investments 9,279 2.98 12,710 5.57 8,824 5.70 Total interest earning assets 146,892 4.95 % 125,675 6.90 % 94,835 6.94 % Non interest earning assets 9,999 9,715 8,550 Total assets $ 156,891 $ 135,390 $ 103,385 Average Liabilities and Stockholders Equity ED Participation Program facility $ 1,727 3.43 % $ % $ % Term bank deposits 696 3.95 166 5.26 1 4.98 Other short term borrowings 33,636 4.81 16,219 5.75 3,901 5.33 Short term borrowings 36,059 4.73 16,385 5.74 3,902 5.33 Long term borrowings 111,625 3.76 109,984 5.59 91,461 5.37 Total interest bearing liabilities 147,684 4.00 % 126,369 5.61 % 95,363 5.37 % Non interest bearing liabilities 3,797 4,272 3,912 Stockholders equity 5,410 4,749 4,110 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 156,891 $ 135,390 $ 103,385 Net interest margin .93 % 1.26 % 1.53 % 48 Table of Contents Rate/Volume Analysis On Balance Sheet The following rate/volume analysis shows the relative contribution of changes in interest rates and asset volumes. (Decrease) Increase Attributable to (Decrease) Change in Increase Rate Volume 2008 vs. 2007 Interest income $ (1,404 ) $ (3,163 ) $ 1,759 Interest expense (1,181 ) (2,402 ) 1,221 Net interest income $ (223 ) $ (761 ) $ 538 2007 vs. 2006 Interest income $ 2,096 $ (98 ) $ 2,194 Interest expense 1,962 301 1,661 Net interest income $ 134 $ (399 ) $ 533 Net Interest Margin On Balance Sheet The following table reflects the net interest margin of on balance sheet interest earning assets, before provisions for loan losses. (Certain percentages do not add or subtract down as they are based on average balances.) Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Student loan spread(1)(2) 1.28 % 1.44 % 1.68 % Other asset spread(1)(3) (.27 ) (.16 ) .27 Net interest margin, before the impact of 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees(1) 1.17 1.26 1.53 Less: 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees (.24 ) Net interest margin .93 % 1.26 % 1.53 % (1) Before commitment and liquidity fees associated with the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities, which are referred to as the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees (see LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Additional Funding Sources for General Corporate Purposes for a further discussion). (2) Composition of student loan spread: Student loan yield, before Floor Income 5.60 % 7.92 % 7.93 % Gross Floor Income .28 .05 .04 Consolidation Loan Rebate Fees (.55 ) (.63 ) (.67 ) Repayment Borrower Benefits (.11 ) (.12 ) (.12 ) Premium and discount amortization (.16 ) (.18 ) (.14 ) Student loan net yield 5.06 7.04 7.04 Student loan cost of funds (3.78 ) (5.60 ) (5.36 ) Student loan spread, before 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees 1.28 % 1.44 % 1.68 % (3) Comprised of investments, cash and other loans. 49 Table of Contents Student Loan Spread On Balance Sheet The student loan spread is impacted by changes in its various components, as reflected in footnote (2) to the Net Interest Margin On Balance Sheet table above. Gross Floor Income is impacted by interest rates and the percentage of the FFELP portfolio eligible to earn Floor Income. The spread impact from Consolidation Loan Rebate Fees fluctuates as a function of the percentage of FFELP Consolidation Loans on our balance sheet. Repayment Borrower Benefits are generally impacted by the terms of the Repayment Borrower Benefits being offered as well as the payment behavior of the underlying loans. Premium and discount amortization is generally impacted by the prices previously paid for loans and amounts capitalized related to such purchases or originations. Premium and discount amortization is also impacted by prepayment behavior of the underlying loans. The student loan spread, before 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees, for 2008 decreased 16 basis points from the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to an increase in our cost of funds, which was partially offset by an increase in Floor Income due to a decrease in interest rates in 2008 compared to 2007. The cost of funds for on balance sheet student loans excludes the impact of basis swaps that are intended to economically hedge the re pricing and basis mismatch between our funding and student loan asset indices; these swaps do not receive hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133. We extensively use basis swaps to manage our basis risk associated with our interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities. These swaps generally do not qualify as accounting hedges, and as a result, are required to be accounted for in the gains (losses) on derivatives and hedging activities, net line on the income statement, as opposed to being accounted for in interest expense. As a result, these basis swaps are not considered in the calculation of the cost of funds in the table above and therefore, in times of volatile movements of interest rates like those experienced in 2008, the student loan spread can significantly change. See Core Earnings Net Interest Margin in the following table, which reflects these basis swaps in interest expense and demonstrates the economic hedge effectiveness of these basis swaps. The decrease in our student loan spread, before the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees, for 2007 versus 2006 was primarily due to an increase in our cost of funds. The increase in the cost of funds is due to the same reason discussed above related to 2008. See Core Earnings Net Interest Margin Core Earnings Basis Student Loan Spread, which reflects these basis swaps in interest expense, and demonstrates the economic hedge effectiveness of these basis swaps. The decrease in the student loan spread was also due to an increase in the estimate of uncollectible accrued interest related to our Private Education Loans (see Core Earnings Net Interest Margin Core Earnings Basis Student Loan Spread). Other Asset Spread On Balance Sheet The other asset spread is generated from cash and investments (both restricted and unrestricted) primarily in our liquidity portfolio and other loans. The Company invests its liquidity portfolio primarily in short term securities with maturities of one week or less in order to manage counterparty credit risk and maintain available cash balances. The other asset spread decreased 11 basis points from 2007 to 2008, and decreased 43 basis points from 2006 to 2007. Changes in the other asset spread primarily relate to differences in the index basis and reset frequency between the asset indices and funding indices. A portion of this risk is hedged with derivatives that do not receive hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133 and will impact the other asset spread in a similar fashion as the impact to the on balance sheet student loan spread as discussed above. In volatile interest rate environments, these spreads may move significantly from period to period and differ from the Core Earnings basis other asset spread discussed below. Net Interest Margin On Balance Sheet The net interest margin, before 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees, for 2008 decreased 9 basis points from the year ago period and decreased 27 basis points from 2006 to 2007. The increase in the student loan portfolio as a percentage of the overall interest earning asset portfolio from 2007 to 2008 resulted in an increase to net interest margin of 7 basis points due to the student loan portfolio earning a higher spread than the other asset portfolio. A decrease of 16 basis points relates primarily to the previous discussions of changes 50 Table of Contents in the on balance sheet student loan and other asset spreads. The student loan portfolio as a percentage of the overall interest earning asset portfolio did not change substantially from 2006 to 2007. The decrease in spread from 2006 to 2007 primarily related to the previously discussed changes in the on balance sheet student loan and other asset spreads. The 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities closed on February 29, 2008. Amortization of the upfront commitment and liquidity fees began on that date. Core Earnings Net Interest Margin The following table analyzes the earnings from our portfolio of Managed interest earning assets on a Core Earnings basis (see BUSINESS SEGMENTS Limitations of Core Earnings Pre tax Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP by Business Segment). The Core Earnings Net Interest Margin presentation and certain components used in the calculation differ from the Net Interest Margin On Balance Sheet presentation. The Core Earnings presentation, when compared to our on balance sheet presentation, is different in that it: includes the net interest margin related to our off balance sheet student loan securitization trusts. This includes any related fees or costs such as the Consolidation Loan Rebate Fees, premium/discount amortization and Repayment Borrower Benefits yield adjustments; includes the reclassification of certain derivative net settlement amounts. The net settlements on certain derivatives that do not qualify as SFAS No. 133 hedges are recorded as part of the gain (loss) on derivative and hedging activities, net line on the income statement and are therefore not recognized in the on balance sheet student loan spread. Under this presentation, these gains and losses are reclassified to the income statement line item of the economically hedged item. For our Core Earnings net interest margin, this would primarily include: (a) reclassifying the net settlement amounts related to our written Floor Income Contracts to student loan interest income and (b) reclassifying the net settlement amounts related to certain of our basis swaps to debt interest expense; excludes unhedged Floor Income earned on the Managed student loan portfolio; and includes the amortization of upfront payments on Floor Income Contracts in student loan income that we believe are economically hedging the Floor Income. 51 Table of Contents The following table reflects the Core Earnings net interest margin, before provisions for loan losses. (Certain percentages do not add or subtract down as they are based on average balances.) Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Core Earnings basis student loan spread(1): FFELP loan spread .83 % .96 % 1.25 % Private Education Loan spread(2) 5.09 5.12 5.13 Total Core Earnings basis student loan spread(3) 1.63 1.67 1.84 Core Earnings basis other asset spread(1)(4) (.51 ) (.11 ) .30 Core Earnings net interest margin, before 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees(1) 1.49 1.49 1.69 Less: 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees (.19 ) Core Earnings net interest margin(5) 1.30 % 1.49 % 1.69 % (1) Before commitment and liquidity fees associated with the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities, which are referred to as the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees (see LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Additional Funding Sources for General Corporate Purposes for a further discussion). (2) Core Earnings basis Private Education Loan Spread, before 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees and after provision for loan losses 2.41 % .41 % 3.75 % (3) Composition of Core Earnings basis student loan spread: Core Earnings basis student loan yield 5.77 % 8.12 % 8.10 % Consolidation Loan Rebate Fees (.52 ) (.57 ) (.56 ) Repayment Borrower Benefits (.11 ) (.11 ) (.09 ) Premium and discount amortization (.14 ) (.17 ) (.16 ) Core Earnings basis student loan net yield 5.00 7.27 7.29 Core Earnings basis student loan cost of funds (3.37 ) (5.60 ) (5.45 ) Core Earnings basis student loan spread, before 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees 1.63 % 1.67 % 1.84 % (4) Comprised of investments, cash and other loans (5) The average balances of our Managed interest earning assets for the respective periods are: FFELP loans $ 141,647 $ 127,940 $ 111,469 Private Education Loans 32,597 26,190 19,723 Total student loans 174,244 154,130 131,192 Other interest earning assets 12,403 17,455 14,148 Total Managed interest earning assets $ 186,647 $ 171,585 $ 145,340 Core Earnings Basis Student Loan Spread The Core Earnings basis student loan spread, before the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees, for 2008 decreased 4 basis points from the prior year which was primarily due to an increase in the Companys cost of funds. The increase in the Companys cost of funds was due to an increase in the credit spreads on the Companys debt issued during the past year due to the current credit environment. These decreases to the student loan spread were partially offset by the growth in the Private Education Loan portfolio which earns a higher margin than FFELP. The Core Earnings basis student loan spread, before the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees, for 2007 decreased 17 basis points from the prior year primarily due to the interest income reserve on our Private Education loans. We estimate the amount of Private Education Loan accrued interest on our balance sheet that is not reasonably expected to be collected in the future using a methodology consistent with the 52 Table of Contents status based migration analysis used for the allowance for Private Education Loans. We use this estimate to offset accrued interest in the current period through a charge to student loan interest income. As our provision for loan losses increased significantly in 2007 compared to 2006, we had a similar rise in the estimate of uncollectible accrued interest receivable. The Company also experienced a higher cost of funds in 2007 primarily due to the disruption in the credit markets, as previously discussed. The Core Earnings basis FFELP loan spread for 2008 declined from 2007 and 2006 primarily as a result of the increase in the cost of funds previously discussed, as well as the mix of the FFELP portfolio shifting towards loans originated subsequent to October 1, 2007 which have lower yields as a result of the CCRAA. The Core Earnings basis Private Education Loan spread before provision for loan losses for 2008 was relatively consistent with 2007 and 2006. The changes in the Core Earnings basis Private Education Loan spread after provision for loan losses for all periods presented was primarily due to the timing and amount of provision associated with our allowance for Private Education Loan Losses as discussed below (see Private Education Loan Losses Activity in the Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses). Core Earnings Basis Other Asset Spread The Core Earnings basis other asset spread is generated from cash and investments (both restricted and unrestricted) primarily in our liquidity portfolio, and other loans. The Company invests its liquidity portfolio primarily in short term securities with maturities of one week or less in order to manage counterparty credit risk and maintain available cash balances. The Core Earnings basis other asset spread for 2008 decreased 40 basis points from 2007. The 2007 spread decreased by 41 basis points from 2006. Changes in this spread primarily relate to differences between the index basis and reset frequency of the asset indices and funding indices. In volatile interest rate environments, the asset and debt reset frequencies will lag each other. Changes in this spread are also a result of the increase in our cost of funds as previously discussed. Core Earnings Net Interest Margin The Core Earnings net interest margin, before 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees, for 2008 was unchanged from the prior year and decreased 20 basis points from 2006 to 2007. The increase in the Managed student loan portfolio as a percentage of the overall Managed interest earning asset portfolio from 2007 to 2008 resulted in an increase to Core Earnings net interest margin of 6 basis points due to the Managed student loan portfolio earning a higher spread than the Managed other interest earning asset portfolio. This was offset by a decrease of 6 basis points primarily due to the previously discussed changes in the student loan and other asset spreads. The student loan portfolio as a percentage of the overall interest earning asset portfolio did not change substantially from 2006 to 2007. The decrease in spread from 2006 to 2007 primarily related to the previously discussed changes in the on balance sheet student loan and other asset spreads. The 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities closed on February 29, 2008. Amortization of the upfront commitment and liquidity fees began on that date. 53 Table of Contents Summary of our Managed Student Loan Portfolio The following tables summarize the components of our Managed student loan portfolio and show the changing composition of our portfolio. Ending Managed Student Loan Balances, net December 31, 2008 FFELP FFELP Private Stafford and Consolidation Total Education Other(1) Loans FFELP Loans Total On balance sheet: In school $ 18,961 $ $ 18,961 $ 7,972 $ 26,933 Grace and repayment 32,455 70,511 102,966 14,231 117,197 Total on balance sheet, gross 51,416 70,511 121,927 22,203 144,130 On balance sheet unamortized premium/(discount) 1,151 1,280 2,431 (535 ) 1,896 On balance sheet receivable for partially charged off loans 222 222 On balance sheet allowance for losses (91 ) (47 ) (138 ) (1,308 ) (1,446 ) Total on balance sheet, net 52,476 71,744 124,220 20,582 144,802 Off balance sheet: In school 473 473 1,629 2,102 Grace and repayment 6,583 15,078 21,661 12,062 33,723 Total off balance sheet, gross 7,056 15,078 22,134 13,691 35,825 Off balance sheet unamortized premium/(discount) 105 462 567 (361 ) 206 Off balance sheet receivable for partially charged off loans 92 92 Off balance sheet allowance for losses (18 ) (9 ) (27 ) (505 ) (532 ) Total off balance sheet, net 7,143 15,531 22,674 12,917 35,591 Total Managed $ 59,619 $ 87,275 $ 146,894 $ 33,499 $ 180,393 % of on balance sheet FFELP 42 % 58 % 100 % % of Managed FFELP 41 % 59 % 100 % % of total 33 % 48 % 81 % 19 % 100 % (1) FFELP category is primarily Stafford loans and also includes federally insured PLUS and HEAL loans. 54 Table of Contents December 31, 2007 FFELP FFELP Private Stafford and Consolidation Total Education Other(1) Loans FFELP Loans Total On balance sheet: In school $ 14,390 $ $ 14,390 $ 6,735 $ 21,125 Grace and repayment 20,469 72,306 92,775 9,437 102,212 Total on balance sheet, gross 34,859 72,306 107,165 16,172 123,337 On balance sheet unamortized premium/(discount) 915 1,344 2,259 (468 ) 1,791 On balance sheet receivable for partially charged off loans 118 118 On balance sheet allowance for losses (48 ) (41 ) (89 ) (1,004 ) (1,093 ) Total on balance sheet, net 35,726 73,609 109,335 14,818 124,153 Off balance sheet: In school 1,004 1,004 3,117 4,121 Grace and repayment 8,334 15,968 24,302 11,082 35,384 Total off balance sheet, gross 9,338 15,968 25,306 14,199 39,505 Off balance sheet unamortized premium/(discount) 154 482 636 (355 ) 281 Off balance sheet receivable for partially charged off loans 28 28 Off balance sheet allowance for losses (20 ) (9 ) (29 ) (362 ) (391 ) Total off balance sheet, net 9,472 16,441 25,913 13,510 39,423 Total Managed $ 45,198 $ 90,050 $ 135,248 $ 28,328 $ 163,576 % of on balance sheet FFELP 33 % 67 % 100 % % of Managed FFELP 33 % 67 % 100 % % of total 28 % 55 % 83 % 17 % 100 % (1) FFELP category is primarily Stafford loans and also includes federally insured PLUS and HEAL loans. 55 Table of Contents Student Loan Average Balances (net of unamortized premium/discount) The following tables summarize the components of our Managed student loan portfolio and show the changing composition of our portfolio. Year Ended December 31, 2008 FFELP FFELP Private Stafford and Consolidation Education Other(1) Loans Total FFELP Loans Total On balance sheet $ 44,291 $ 73,091 $ 117,382 $ 19,276 $ 136,658 Off balance sheet 8,299 15,966 24,265 13,321 37,586 Total Managed $ 52,590 $ 89,057 $ 141,647 $ 32,597 $ 174,244 % of on balance sheet FFELP 38 % 62 % 100 % % of Managed FFELP 37 % 63 % 100 % % of total 30 % 51 % 81 % 19 % 100 % Year Ended December 31, 2007 FFELP FFELP Private Stafford and Consolidation Education Other(1) Loans Total FFELP Loans Total On balance sheet $ 31,294 $ 67,918 $ 99,212 $ 12,507 $ 111,719 Off balance sheet 11,533 17,195 28,728 13,683 42,411 Total Managed $ 42,827 $ 85,113 $ 127,940 $ 26,190 $ 154,130 % of on balance sheet FFELP 32 % 68 % 100 % % of Managed FFELP 33 % 67 % 100 % % of total 28 % 55 % 83 % 17 % 100 % Year Ended December 31, 2006 FFELP FFELP Private Stafford and Consolidation Education Other(1) Loans Total FFELP Loans Total On balance sheet $ 21,152 $ 55,119 $ 76,271 $ 8,585 $ 84,856 Off balance sheet 19,546 15,652 35,198 11,138 46,336 Total Managed $ 40,698 $ 70,771 $ 111,469 $ 19,723 $ 131,192 % of on balance sheet FFELP 28 % 72 % 100 % % of Managed FFELP 37 % 63 % 100 % % of total 31 % 54 % 85 % 15 % 100 % (1) FFELP category is primarily Stafford loans and also includes federally insured PLUS and HEAL loans. 56 Table of Contents Floor Income Managed Basis The following table analyzes the ability of the FFELP loans in our Managed portfolio to earn Floor Income after December 31, 2008 and 2007, based on interest rates as of those dates. December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Fixed Variable Fixed Variable Borrower Borrower Borrower Borrower (Dollars in billions) Rate Rate Total Rate Rate Total Student loans eligible to earn Floor Income: On balance sheet student loans $ 104.9 $ 16.1 $ 121.0 $ 89.3 $ 17.1 $ 106.4 Off balance sheet student loans 15.0 7.0 22.0 15.9 9.2 25.1 Managed student loans eligible to earn Floor Income 119.9 23.1 143.0 105.2 26.3 131.5 Less: post March 31, 2006 disbursed loans required to rebate Floor Income (64.3 ) (1.3 ) (65.6 ) (45.9 ) (1.5 ) (47.4 ) Less: economically hedged Floor Income Contracts (28.6 ) (28.6 ) (15.7 ) (17.4 ) (33.1 ) Net Managed student loans eligible to earn Floor Income $ 27.0 $ 21.8 $ 48.8 $ 43.6 $ 7.4 $ 51.0 Net Managed student loans earning Floor Income as of December 31, $ 4.3 $ 4.8 $ 9.1 $ 1.3 $ 7.4 $ 8.7 We have sold Floor Income contracts to hedge the potential Floor Income from specifically identified pools of FFELP Consolidation loans that are eligible to earn Floor Income. The following table presents a projection of the average Managed balance of FFELP Consolidation Loans for which Fixed Rate Floor Income has already been economically hedged through Floor Income Contracts for the period January 1, 2009 to September 30, 2013. These loans are both on and off balance sheet and the related hedges do not qualify under SFAS No. 133 accounting as effective hedges. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in billions) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Average balance of FFELP Consolidation Loans whose Floor Income is economically hedged (Managed Basis) $ 21 $ 19 $ 16 $ 16 $ 4 Private Education Loan Losses On Balance Sheet versus Managed Basis Presentation All Private Education Loans are initially acquired on balance sheet. The securitization of Private Education Loans to date has been accounted for off balance sheet under SFAS No. 140. For our Managed Basis presentation in the table below, when loans are securitized, we reduce the on balance sheet allowance for loan losses for amounts previously provided and then increase the allowance for loan losses for these loans off balance sheet, with the total of both on balance sheet and off balance sheet being the Managed Basis allowance for loan losses. When Private Education Loans in our securitized trusts settling before September 30, 2005, became 180 days delinquent, we previously exercised our contingent call option to repurchase these loans at par value out of the trust and recorded a loss for the difference in the par value paid and the fair market value of the loan at the time of purchase. We account for these loans in accordance with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement of Position (SOP) 03 3, Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquired in a Transfer. Revenue is recognized over the anticipated remaining life of the loan based upon the amount and timing of anticipated cash flows. Beginning in October 2008, the Company decided to no longer exercise its contingent call option. On a Managed Basis, the losses recorded under GAAP for loans repurchased at day 180 are reversed and the full amount is charged off at day 212. We do not hold the contingent call option for any trusts settled after September 30, 2005. When measured as a percentage of ending loans in repayment, the off balance sheet allowance for loan losses percentage is lower than the on balance sheet percentage because of the different mix of loans on balance sheet and off balance sheet. 57 Table of Contents Private Education Loan Delinquencies and Forbearance The table below presents our Private Education Loan delinquency trends as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Delinquencies have the potential to adversely impact earnings as they are an initial indication of the borrowers potential to possibly default and as a result command a higher loan loss reserve than loans in current status. Delinquent loans also require increased servicing and collection efforts, resulting in higher operating costs. On Balance Sheet Private Education Loan Delinquencies December 31, December 31, December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 10,159 $ 8,151 $ 5,218 Loans in forbearance(2) 862 974 359 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 9,748 87.2 % 6,236 88.5 % 4,214 86.9 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 551 4.9 306 4.3 250 5.1 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 296 2.6 176 2.5 132 2.7 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 587 5.3 329 4.7 255 5.3 Total Private Education Loans in repayment 11,182 100 % 7,047 100 % 4,851 100 % Total Private Education Loans, gross 22,203 16,172 10,428 Private Education Loan unamortized discount (535 ) (468 ) (365 ) Total Private Education Loans 21,668 15,704 10,063 Private Education Loan receivable for partially charged off loans 222 118 64 Private Education Loan allowance for losses (1,308 ) (1,004 ) (372 ) Private Education Loans, net $ 20,582 $ 14,818 $ 9,755 Percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 50.4 % 43.6 % 46.5 % Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 12.8 % 11.5 % 13.1 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 7.2 % 12.1 % 6.9 % (1) Loans for borrowers who still may be attending school or engaging in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation. (2) Loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period generally during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors, consistent with established loan program servicing policies and procedures. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. 58 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Private Education Loan Delinquencies December 31, December 31, December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 3,461 $ 4,963 $ 5,608 Loans in forbearance(2) 700 1,417 822 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 8,843 92.8 % 7,403 94.7 % 6,419 94.5 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 315 3.3 202 2.6 222 3.3 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 121 1.3 84 1.1 60 .9 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 251 2.6 130 1.6 91 1.3 Total Private Education Loans in repayment 9,530 100 % 7,819 100 % 6,792 100 % Total Private Education Loans, gross 13,691 14,199 13,222 Private Education Loan unamortized discount (361 ) (355 ) (303 ) Total Private Education Loans 13,330 13,844 12,919 Private Education Loan receivable for partially charged off loans 92 28 Private Education Loan allowance for losses (505 ) (362 ) (86 ) Private Education Loans, net $ 12,917 $ 13,510 $ 12,833 Percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 69.6 % 55.1 % 51.4 % Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 7.2 % 5.3 % 5.5 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 6.8 % 15.3 % 10.8 % (1) Loans for borrowers who still may be attending school or engaging in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation. (2) Loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period generally during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors, consistent with established loan program servicing policies and procedures. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. 59 Table of Contents Managed Basis Private Education Loan Delinquencies December 31, December 31, December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 13,620 $ 13,114 $ 10,826 Loans in forbearance(2) 1,562 2,391 1,181 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 18,591 89.8 % 13,639 91.7 % 10,633 91.3 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 866 4.2 508 3.4 472 4.0 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 417 2.0 260 1.8 192 1.7 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 838 4.0 459 3.1 346 3.0 Total Private Education Loans in repayment 20,712 100 % 14,866 100 % 11,643 100 % Total Private Education Loans, gross 35,894 30,371 23,650 Private Education Loan unamortized discount (896 ) (823 ) (668 ) Total Private Education Loans 34,998 29,548 22,982 Private Education Loan receivable for partially charged off loans 314 146 64 Private Education Loan allowance for losses (1,813 ) (1,366 ) (458 ) Private Education Loans, net $ 33,499 $ 28,328 $ 22,588 Percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 57.7 % 48.9 % 49.2 % Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 10.2 % 8.3 % 8.7 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 7.0 % 13.9 % 9.2 % (1) Loans for borrowers who still may be attending school or engaging in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation. (2) Loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period generally during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors, consistent with established loan program servicing policies and procedures. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. Activity in the Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses As discussed in detail under CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES, the provisions for student loan losses represent the periodic expense of maintaining an allowance sufficient to absorb losses, net of recoveries, incurred in the portfolio of Private Education Loans. The Company is changing its methodology used to present charge offs related to Private Education Loans to more clearly reflect the expected loss. Net income, provision for loan loss expense, the net loan balance, default rate and expected recovery rate assumptions are not impacted by this change. Based on our historic experience, we expect to recover a portion of loans that default. This expected recovery is taken into account in arriving at our periodic provision for loan loss expense. Previously, once a loan has been delinquent for 60 Table of Contents 212 days, we have charged off 100 percent of the loan balance, even though we had provisioned for the estimated loss of the defaulted loan balance, comprised of the full loan balance less the expected recovery. The Company is changing its methodology to charge off the estimated loss of the defaulted loan balance to be consistent with the amount included in the provision. Actual recoveries are applied against the remaining loan balance that was not charged off. If actual periodic recoveries are less than originally expected, the difference results in immediate additional provision expense and charge off of such amount. This revised methodology results in a charge off equal to the amount provided for through the allowance for loan loss. As a result, the Company believes that this methodology better reflects the actual events occurring. Although there is diversity in practice on how charge offs are presented, this method is more comparable to other financial institutions in how charge offs and the related charge off and allowance ratios are presented. The Company emphasizes that although the presentation improves the various charge off and allowance ratios, the change does not reflect an improvement in the collectability of the Companys loan portfolio. As a result of this change, a $314 million receivable on a Managed basis ($222 million for GAAP) as of December 31, 2008, is being reclassified from the allowance for loan loss to the Private Education Loan balance. This amount represents the expected future recoveries related to previously defaulted loans (i.e., the amount not charged off when a loan defaults that has not yet been collected). As of December 31, 2008, the Company assumes it will collect, on average, 27 percent of a defaulted loans balance over an extended period of time. This recovery assumption is based on historic recovery rates achieved and is updated, as appropriate, on a quarterly basis. The Company believes this change to be an immaterial correction of previous disclosures. Following are tables depicting the Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses as previously presented and as corrected for this change. 61 Table of Contents The following table summarizes changes in the allowance for Private Education Loan losses for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 as previously reported. Activity in the Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses Prior Presentation Activity in Allowance for Private Education Loans On Balance Sheet Off Balance Sheet Managed Basis Years Ended December 31, Years Ended December 31, Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 Allowance at beginning of period $ 886 $ 308 $ 204 $ 334 $ 86 $ 78 $ 1,220 $ 394 $ 282 Provision for Private Education Loan losses 586 884 258 288 349 15 874 1,233 273 Charge offs (460 ) (332 ) (160 ) (226 ) (107 ) (24 ) (686 ) (439 ) (184 ) Recoveries 36 32 23 9 45 32 23 Net charge offs (424 ) (300 ) (137 ) (217 ) (107 ) (24 ) (641 ) (407 ) (161 ) Reclassification of interest reserve(1) 38 8 46 Balance before securitization of Private Education Loans 1,086 892 325 413 328 69 1,499 1,220 394 Reduction for securitization of Private Education Loans (6 ) (17 ) 6 17 Allowance at end of period $ 1,086 $ 886 $ 308 $ 413 $ 334 $ 86 $ 1,499 $ 1,220 $ 394 Net charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment 4.98 % 5.04 % 3.22 % 2.68 % 1.46 % .43 % 3.86 % 3.07 % 1.62 % Net charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment and forbearance 4.39 % 4.54 % 2.99 % 2.31 % 1.27 % .38 % 3.37 % 2.71 % 1.47 % Allowance as a percentage of ending total loans, gross 4.89 % 5.48 % 2.96 % 3.02 % 2.35 % .65 % 4.18 % 4.02 % 1.66 % Allowance as a percentage of ending loans in repayment 9.71 % 12.57 % 6.36 % 4.34 % 4.28 % 1.26 % 7.24 % 8.21 % 3.38 % Average coverage of net charge offs 2.56 2.95 2.25 1.91 3.13 3.46 2.34 3.00 2.44 Ending total loans, gross $ 22,203 $ 16,172 $ 10,428 $ 13,691 $ 14,199 $ 13,222 $ 35,894 $ 30,371 $ 23,650 Average loans in repayment $ 8,533 $ 5,949 $ 4,257 $ 8,088 $ 7,305 $ 5,721 $ 16,621 $ 13,254 $ 9,978 Ending loans in repayment $ 11,182 $ 7,047 $ 4,851 $ 9,530 $ 7,819 $ 6,792 $ 20,712 $ 14,866 $ 11,643 (1) Represents the additional allowance related to the amount of uncollectible interest reserved within interest income that is transferred in the period to the allowance for loan losses when interest is capitalized to a loans principal balance. Prior to 2008, the interest provision was reversed in interest income and then provided for through provision within the allowance for loan loss. For the year ended December 31, 2007, this amount was $21 million and $27 million on an On Balance Sheet Basis and a Managed Basis, respectively, and for the year ended December 31, 2006, this amount was $12 million and $15 million on an On Balance Sheet Basis and a Managed Basis, respectively. 62 Table of Contents The following table provides the detail for our traditional and non traditional Managed Private Education Loans at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 as previously presented. December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Non Non Non Traditional Traditional Total Traditional Traditional Total Traditional Traditional Total Ending total loans, gross $ 30,949 $ 4,945 $ 35,894 $ 25,791 $ 4,580 $ 30,371 $ 20,006 $ 3,644 $ 23,650 Ending loans in repayment 17,715 2,997 20,712 12,711 2,155 14,866 9,821 1,822 11,643 Private Education Loan allowance for losses 707 792 1,499 438 782 1,220 179 215 394 Net charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment(1) 2.1 % 14.3 % 3.9 % 1.5 % 11.9 % 3.1 % .6 % 7.2 % 1.6 % Allowance as a percentage of ending total loans, gross 2.3 % 16.0 % 4.2 % 1.7 % 17.1 % 4.0 % .9 % 5.9 % 1.7 % Allowance as a percentage of ending loans in repayment 4.0 % 26.4 % 7.2 % 3.5 % 36.3 % 8.2 % 1.8 % 11.8 % 3.4 % Average coverage of net charge offs(1) 2.4 2.3 2.3 2.6 3.3 3.0 3.3 2.0 2.4 Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 7.1 % 28.9 % 10.2 % 5.2 % 26.3 % 8.3 % 5.4 % 26.0 % 8.7 % Delinquencies greater than 90 days as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 2.6 % 12.7 % 4.0 % 1.7 % 11.1 % 3.1 % 1.5 % 10.6 % 3.0 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 6.7 % 9.0 % 7.0 % 12.8 % 19.4 % 13.9 % 8.7 % 11.9 % 9.2 % (1) Full year actuals for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. 63 Table of Contents Activity in the Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses Corrected Presentation The following table summarizes changes in the allowance for Private Education Loan losses for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 as corrected and discussed above. Activity in Allowance for Private Education Loans On Balance Sheet Off Balance Sheet Managed Basis Years Ended December 31, Years Ended December 31, Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 Allowance at beginning of period $ 1,004 $ 372 $ 250 $ 362 $ 86 $ 78 $ 1,366 $ 458 $ 328 Provision for Private Education Loan losses 586 884 258 288 349 15 874 1,233 273 Charge offs (320 ) (246 ) (119 ) (153 ) (79 ) (24 ) (473 ) (325 ) (143 ) Reclassification of interest reserve(1) 38 8 46 Balance before securitization of Private Education Loans 1,308 1,010 389 505 356 69 1,813 1,366 458 Reduction for securitization of Private Education Loans (6 ) (17 ) 6 17 Allowance at end of period $ 1,308 $ 1,004 $ 372 $ 505 $ 362 $ 86 $ 1,813 $ 1,366 $ 458 Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment 3.75 % 4.14 % 2.79 % 1.90 % 1.09 % .43 % 2.85 % 2.46 % 1.44 % Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment and forbearance 3.31 % 3.72 % 2.59 % 1.64 % .94 % .38 % 2.49 % 2.17 % 1.30 % Allowance as a percentage of the ending total loan balance(2) 5.83 % 6.16 % 3.55 % 3.66 % 2.54 % .66 % 5.01 % 4.48 % 1.93 % Allowance as a percentage of ending loans in repayment 11.70 % 14.25 % 7.68 % 5.29 % 4.63 % 1.26 % 8.75 % 9.19 % 3.93 % Average coverage of charge offs 4.08 4.08 3.14 3.29 4.56 3.46 3.83 4.19 3.19 Ending total loans(2) $ 22,426 $ 16,290 $ 10,492 $ 13,782 $ 14,227 $ 13,222 $ 36,208 $ 30,517 $ 23,714 Average loans in repayment $ 8,533 $ 5,949 $ 4,257 $ 8,088 $ 7,305 $ 5,721 $ 16,621 $ 13,254 $ 9,978 Ending loans in repayment $ 11,182 $ 7,047 $ 4,851 $ 9,530 $ 7,819 $ 6,792 $ 20,712 $ 14,866 $ 11,643 (1) Represents the additional allowance related to the amount of uncollectible interest reserved within interest income that is transferred in the period to the allowance for loan losses when interest is capitalized to a loans principal balance. Prior to 2008, the interest provision was reversed in interest income and then provided for through provision within the allowance for loan loss. For the year ended December 31, 2007, this amount was $21 million and $27 million on an On Balance Sheet Basis and a Managed Basis, respectively, and for the year ended December 31, 2006, this amount was $12 million and $15 million on an On Balance Sheet Basis and a Managed Basis, respectively. (2) Ending total loans represents gross Private Education Loans, plus the receivable for partially charged off loans. 64 Table of Contents The following table provides the detail for our traditional and non traditional Managed Private Education Loans at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 as corrected and discussed above. December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Non Non Non Traditional Traditional Total Traditional Traditional Total Traditional Traditional Total Ending total loans(2) $ 31,101 $ 5,107 $ 36,208 $ 25,848 $ 4,669 $ 30,517 $ 20,037 $ 3,677 $ 23,714 Ending loans in repayment 17,715 2,997 20,712 12,711 2,155 14,866 9,821 1,822 11,643 Private Education Loan allowance for losses 859 954 1,813 495 871 1,366 209 249 458 Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment(1) 1.4 % 11.1 % 2.9 % 1.2 % 9.5 % 2.5 % .6 % 6.3 % 1.4 % Allowance as a percentage of ending total loan balance(2) 2.8 % 18.7 % 5.0 % 1.9 % 18.7 % 4.5 % 1.0 % 6.8 % 1.9 % Allowance as a percentage of ending loans in repayment 4.8 % 31.8 % 8.8 % 3.9 % 40.4 % 9.2 % 2.1 % 13.7 % 3.9 % Average coverage of charge offs(1) 4.2 3.5 3.8 3.6 4.6 4.2 4.2 2.7 3.2 Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 7.1 % 28.9 % 10.2 % 5.2 % 26.3 % 8.3 % 5.4 % 26.0 % 8.7 % Delinquencies greater than 90 days as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 2.6 % 12.7 % 4.0 % 1.7 % 11.1 % 3.1 % 1.5 % 10.6 % 3.0 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 6.7 % 9.0 % 7.0 % 12.8 % 19.4 % 13.9 % 8.7 % 11.9 % 9.2 % (1) Full year actuals for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. (2) Ending total loans represents gross Private Education Loans, plus the receivable for partially charged off loans. Due to the seasoning of the Managed Private Education Loan portfolio, shifts in its mix, the continued weakening of the U.S. economy, and other operational factors, the Company expected and has seen charge off rates increase from the historically low levels experienced prior to 2007. Managed provision expense decreased to $874 million in 2008 from $1.2 billion in 2007. In the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company recorded provision expense of $667 million for the Managed Private Education Loan portfolio. This significant level of provision expense compared to prior and subsequent quarters primarily related to the non traditional portion of the Companys Private Education Loan portfolio which the Company had been expanding over the past few years. The Company has terminated these non traditional loan programs because the performance of these loans was found to be materially different from original expectations. The non traditional portfolio is particularly impacted by the weakening U.S. economy and an underlying borrowers ability to repay. Although provision expense decreased from 2007 to 2008, provision expense remained elevated in 2008 due to an increase in delinquencies and charge offs and the continued weakening of the U.S. economy. Managed delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment increased from 8.3 percent at December 31, 2007 to 10.2 percent at December 31, 2008. Managed Private Education Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance decreased from 13.9 percent at December 31, 2007 to 7.0 percent at December 31, 2008. Borrowers use the proceeds of Private Education Loans to obtain higher education, which increases the likelihood of obtaining employment at higher income levels than would be available without the additional education. As a result, borrowers repayment capability is expected to improve between the time the loan is made and the time they enter the post education work force. Consistent with FFELP loans, we generally allow the loan repayment period on higher education Private Education Loans to begin six months after the borrower 65 Table of Contents graduates (or grace period). This provides the borrower time after graduation to obtain a job to service the debt. For borrowers that need more time or experience hardships, we offer periods of forbearance similar to that provided to borrowers in the FFELP. Forbearance involves granting the borrower a temporary cessation of payments (or temporary acceptance of smaller than scheduled payments) for a specified period of time. Using forbearance in this manner effectively extends the original term of the loan. Forbearance does not grant any reduction in the total repayment obligation (principal or interest). While a loan is in forbearance status, interest continues to accrue and is capitalized to principal when the loan re enters repayment status. Our forbearance policies include limits on the number of forbearance months granted consecutively and limits on the total number of forbearance months granted over the life of the loan. In some instances, we require good faith payments before granting the forbearance. Exceptions to forbearance policies are permitted when such exceptions are judged to increase the likelihood of ultimate collection of the loan. Forbearance as a collection tool is used most effectively when applied based on a borrowers unique situation, including assumptions based on historical information and judgments. We combine borrower information with a risk based segmentation model to assist in our decision making as to who will be granted forbearance based on our expectation as to a borrowers ability and willingness to repay their obligation. This strategy is aimed at mitigating the overall risk of the portfolio as well as encouraging cash resolution of delinquent loans. Forbearance may be granted to borrowers who are exiting their grace period to provide additional time to obtain employment and income to support their obligations, or to current borrowers who are faced with a hardship and request forbearance time to provide temporary payment relief. In these circumstances, a borrowers loan is placed into a forbearance status in limited monthly increments and is reflected in the forbearance status at month end during this time. At the end of their granted forbearance period, the borrower will enter repayment status as current and is expected to begin making their scheduled monthly payments on a go forward basis. Forbearance may also be granted to borrowers who are delinquent in their payments. In these circumstances, the forbearance cures the delinquency and the borrower is returned to a current repayment status. In more limited instances, delinquent borrowers will also be granted additional forbearance time. As we have obtained further experience about the effectiveness of forbearance, we have reduced the amount of time a loan will spend in forbearance, thereby increasing our ongoing contact with the borrower to encourage consistent repayment behavior once the loan is returned to a current repayment status. As a result, the balance of loans in a forbearance status as of month end has decreased over the course of 2008, while the monthly average amount of loans granted forbearance in the fourth quarter of 2008 was consistent with the year ago quarter at 6.5 percent of loans in repayment and forbearance. As of December 31, 2008, 3 percent of loans in current status were delinquent as of the end of the prior month, but were granted a forbearance that made them current during December. The majority of these borrowers would have previously received a forbearance which resulted in their loan being reflected in the forbearance status at month end, and eventually entering repayment status as current at the end of the forbearance period. These borrowers are now being placed in repayment status earlier than they previously would have been. 66 Table of Contents The table below reflects the historical effectiveness of using forbearance. Our experience has shown that three years after being granted forbearance for the first time, over 70 percent of the loans are current, paid in full, or receiving an in school grace or deferment, and 12 percent have defaulted. The default experience associated with loans which utilize forbearance is considered in our allowance for loan losses. Tracking by First Time in Forbearance Compared to All Loans Entering Repayment Status distribution Status distribution 36 months after Status distribution 36 months after being granted 36 months after entering repayment for forbearance entering repayment loans never entering for the first time (all loans) forbearance In school/grace/deferment 7.9 % 8.1 % 2.5 % Current 55.9 60.6 66.8 Delinquent 31 60 days 3.1 1.9 .4 Delinquent 61 90 days 1.6 .9 .2 Delinquent greater than 90 days 2.8 1.7 .3 Forbearance 7.1 4.9 Defaulted 12.0 5.9 4.4 Paid 9.6 16.0 25.4 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % The tables below show the composition and status of the Managed Private Education Loan portfolio aged by number of months in active repayment status (months for which a scheduled monthly payment was due). As indicated in the tables, the percentage of loans in forbearance status decreases the longer the loans have been in active repayment status. At December 31, 2008, loans in forbearance status as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance are 8.9 percent for loans that have been in active repayment status for less than 25 months. The percentage drops to 2.1 percent for loans that have been in active repayment status for more than 48 months. Approximately 90 percent of our Managed Private Education Loans in forbearance status have been in active repayment status less than 25 months. Monthly Scheduled Payments Due Not Yet in December 31, 2008 0 to 24 25 to 48 More than 48 Repayment Total Loans in school/grace/deferment $ $ $ $ 13,620 $ 13,620 Loans in forbearance 1,406 106 50 1,562 Loans in repayment current 12,551 3,798 2,242 18,591 Loans in repayment delinquent 31 60 days 728 93 45 866 Loans in repayment delinquent 61 90 days 351 44 22 417 Loans in repayment delinquent greater than 90 days 691 97 50 838 Total $ 15,727 $ 4,138 $ 2,409 $ 13,620 35,894 Unamortized discount (896 ) Receivable for partially charged off loans 314 Allowance for loan losses (1,813 ) Total Managed Private Education Loans, net $ 33,499 Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 8.9 % 2.6 % 2.1 % % 7.0 % 67 Table of Contents Monthly Scheduled Payments Due Not Yet in December 31, 2007 0 to 24 25 to 48 More than 48 Repayment Total Loans in school/grace/deferment $ $ $ $ 13,114 $ 13,114 Loans in forbearance 2,228 118 45 2,391 Loans in repayment current 9,184 2,807 1,648 13,639 Loans in repayment delinquent 31 60 days 407 64 37 508 Loans in repayment delinquent 61 90 days 221 25 14 260 Loans in repayment delinquent greater than 90 days 376 52 31 459 Total $ 12,416 $ 3,066 $ 1,775 $ 13,114 30,371 Unamortized discount (823 ) Receivable for partially charged off loans 146 Allowance for loan losses (1,366 ) Total Managed Private Education Loans, net $ 28,328 Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 17.9 % 3.8 % 2.5 % % 13.9 % Monthly Scheduled Payments Due Not Yet in December 31, 2006 0 to 24 25 to 48 More than 48 Repayment Total Loans in school/grace/deferment $ $ $ $ 10,826 $ 10,826 Loans in forbearance 1,106 50 25 1,181 Loans in repayment current 7,181 2,151 1,301 10,633 Loans in repayment delinquent 31 60 days 366 66 40 472 Loans in repayment delinquent 61 90 days 149 27 16 192 Loans in repayment delinquent greater than 90 days 254 60 32 346 Total $ 9,056 $ 2,354 $ 1,414 $ 10,826 23,650 Unamortized discount (668 ) Receivable for partially charged off loans 64 Allowance for loan losses (458 ) Total Managed Private Education Loans, net $ 22,588 Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 12.2 % 2.1 % 1.8 % % 9.2 % The table below stratifies the portfolio of Managed Private Education Loans in forbearance by the cumulative number of months the borrower has used forbearance as of the dates indicated. As detailed in the table below, 8 percent of loans currently in forbearance have cumulative forbearance of more than 24 months. December 31, December 31, December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Forbearance % of Forbearance % of Forbearance % of Balance Total Balance Total Balance Total Cumulative number of months borrower has used forbearance Up to 12 months $ 1,075 69 % $ 1,641 69 % $ 870 74 % 13 to 24 months 368 23 629 26 262 22 More than 24 months 119 8 121 5 49 4 Total $ 1,562 100 % $ 2,391 100 % $ 1,181 100 % 68 Table of Contents FFELP Loan Losses FFELP Delinquencies and Forbearance The tables below present our FFELP loan delinquency trends as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Delinquencies have the potential to adversely impact earnings as they are an initial indication of the borrowers potential to possibly default and as a result command a higher loan loss reserve than loans in current status. Delinquent loans also require increased servicing and collection efforts, resulting in higher operating costs. On Balance Sheet FFELP Loan Delinquencies December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 39,270 $ 31,200 $ 23,171 Loans in forbearance(2) 12,483 10,675 8,325 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 58,811 83.8 % 55,128 84.4 % 45,664 86.0 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 4,044 5.8 3,650 5.6 2,787 5.2 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 2,064 2.9 1,841 2.8 1,468 2.8 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 5,255 7.5 4,671 7.2 3,207 6.0 Total FFELP loans in repayment 70,174 100 % 65,290 100 % 53,126 100 % Total FFELP loans, gross 121,927 107,165 84,622 FFELP loan unamortized premium 2,431 2,259 1,563 Total FFELP loans 124,358 109,424 86,185 FFELP loan allowance for losses (138 ) (89 ) (20 ) FFELP loans, net $ 124,220 $ 109,335 $ 86,165 Percentage of FFELP loans in repayment 57.6 % 60.9 % 62.8 % Delinquencies as a percentage of FFELP loans in repayment 16.2 % 15.6 % 14.0 % FFELP loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 15.1 % 14.1 % 13.5 % (1) Loans for borrowers who still may be attending school or engaging in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation, as well as, loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors. (2) Loans for borrowers who have used their allowable deferment time or do not qualify for deferment, that need additional time to obtain employment or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. 69 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet FFELP Loan Delinquencies December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 4,115 $ 5,060 $ 7,392 Loans in forbearance(2) 2,821 2,950 3,789 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 12,441 81.9 % 13,703 79.2 % 16,655 77.7 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 881 5.8 1,017 5.9 1,278 6.0 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 484 3.2 577 3.3 777 3.6 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 1,392 9.1 1,999 11.6 2,721 12.7 Total FFELP loans in repayment 15,198 100 % 17,296 100 % 21,431 100 % Total FFELP loans, gross 22,134 25,306 32,612 FFELP loan unamortized premium 567 636 741 Total FFELP loans 22,701 25,942 33,353 FFELP loan allowance for losses (27 ) (29 ) (14 ) FFELP loans, net $ 22,674 $ 25,913 $ 33,339 Percentage of FFELP loans in repayment 68.7 % 68.4 % 65.7 % Delinquencies as a percentage of FFELP loans in repayment 18.1 % 20.8 % 22.3 % FFELP loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 15.7 % 14.6 % 15.0 % (1) Loans for borrowers who still may be attending school or engaging in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation, as well as, loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors. (2) Loans for borrowers who have used their allowable deferment time or do not qualify for deferment, that need additional time to obtain employment or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. 70 Table of Contents Managed Basis FFELP Loan Delinquencies December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 43,385 $ 36,260 $ 30,563 Loans in forbearance(2) 15,304 13,625 12,114 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 71,252 83.5 % 68,831 83.3 % 62,319 83.6 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 4,925 5.8 4,667 5.7 4,065 5.5 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 2,548 2.9 2,418 2.9 2,245 3.0 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 6,647 7.8 6,670 8.1 5,928 7.9 Total FFELP loans in repayment 85,372 100 % 82,586 100 % 74,557 100 % Total FFELP loans, gross 144,061 132,471 117,234 FFELP loan unamortized premium 2,998 2,895 2,304 Total FFELP loans 147,059 135,366 119,538 FFELP loan allowance for losses (165 ) (118 ) (34 ) FFELP loans, net $ 146,894 $ 135,248 $ 119,504 Percentage of FFELP loans in repayment 59.3 % 62.3 % 63.6 % Delinquencies as a percentage of FFELP loans in repayment 16.5 % 16.7 % 16.4 % FFELP loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 15.2 % 14.2 % 14.0 % (1) Loans for borrowers who still may be attending school or engaging in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation, as well as, loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors. (2) Loans for borrowers who have used their allowable deferment time or do not qualify for deferment, that need additional time to obtain employment or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. 71 Table of Contents Activity in the Allowance for FFELP Loan Losses The provision for student loan losses represents the periodic expense of maintaining an allowance sufficient to absorb incurred Risk Sharing losses, in the portfolio of FFELP loans. The following table summarizes changes in the allowance for FFELP loan losses for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Activity in Allowance for FFELP Loans On Balance Sheet Off Balance Sheet Managed Basis Years Ended December 31, Years Ended December 31, Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 Allowance at beginning of period $ 89 $ 20 $ 14 $ 29 $ 14 $ 11 $ 118 $ 34 $ 25 Provision for FFELP Loan losses 106 89 14 21 32 3 127 121 17 Charge offs (58 ) (21 ) (5 ) (21 ) (15 ) (3 ) (79 ) (36 ) (8 ) Student loan sales and securitization activity 1 1 (3 ) (2 ) (2 ) 3 (1 ) (1 ) Allowance at end of period $ 138 $ 89 $ 20 $ 27 $ 29 $ 14 $ 165 $ 118 $ 34 Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment .09 % .04 % .01 % .13 % .08 % .01 % .10 % .05 % .01 % Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment and forbearance .07 % .03 % .01 % .11 % .07 % .01 % .08 % .04 % .01 % Allowance as a percentage of the ending total loans, gross .11 % .08 % .02 % .12 % .11 % .04 % .11 % .09 % .03 % Allowance as a percentage of ending loans in repayment .20 % .14 % .04 % .18 % .17 % .06 % .19 % .14 % .05 % Average coverage of charge offs 2.39 4.18 4.03 1.27 1.90 4.73 2.09 3.23 4.28 Ending total loans, gross $ 121,927 $ 107,165 $ 84,622 $ 22,134 $ 25,306 $ 32,612 $ 144,061 $ 132,471 $ 117,234 Average loans in repayment $ 66,392 $ 58,999 $ 47,155 $ 16,086 $ 18,624 $ 21,630 $ 82,478 $ 77,623 $ 68,785 Ending loans in repayment $ 70,174 $ 65,290 $ 53,126 $ 15,198 $ 17,296 $ 21,431 $ 85,372 $ 82,586 $ 74,557 Total Provisions for Loan Losses The following tables summarize the total loan provisions on both an on balance sheet and on a Managed Basis for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Total on balance sheet loan provisions Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Private Education Loans $ 586 $ 884 $ 258 FFELP Loans 106 89 14 Mortgage and consumer loans 28 42 15 Total on balance sheet provisions for loan losses $ 720 $ 1,015 $ 287 72 Table of Contents Total Managed Basis loan provisions Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Private Education Loans $ 874 $ 1,233 $ 273 FFELP Loans 127 121 17 Mortgage and consumer loans 28 40 13 Total Managed Basis provisions for loan losses $ 1,029 $ 1,394 $ 303 Provision expense for Private Education Loans was previously discussed above (see Activity in the Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses). The 2008 provision for FFELP loans is up slightly over the prior year, but up significantly from 2006. The increase in provision over 2006 related primarily to legislative changes (the change to a lower rate of insurance on loans disbursed after June 30, 2006 and the repeal of the Exceptional Performer program in 2007) which increased our Risk Sharing percentage on the portfolio. Additionally, growth in the repayment portion of the portfolio and a rise in delinquencies and charge offs led to an increase in future default expectations. The increase in provision related to mortgage and consumer loans for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 compared to the year ended December 31, 2006, primarily related to a weakening U.S. economy and the deterioration of certain real estate markets related to our mortgage portfolio. As of December 31, 2008, our mortgage portfolio totaled $242 million. Total Loan Charge offs Corrected Presentation The following tables summarize the charge offs for all loan types on balance sheet and on a Managed Basis for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, as corrected, for Private Education Loans. Total on balance sheet loan charge offs Corrected Presentation Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Private Education Loans $ 320 $ 246 $ 119 FFELP Loans 58 21 5 Mortgage and consumer loans 17 11 5 Total on balance sheet loan charge offs $ 395 $ 278 $ 129 Total Managed Basis loan charge offs Corrected Presentation Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Private Education Loans $ 473 $ 325 $ 143 FFELP Loans 79 36 8 Mortgage and consumer loans 17 11 5 Total Managed loan charge offs $ 569 $ 372 $ 156 The increase in charge offs on FFELP loans from 2006 through 2008 was primarily the result of legislative changes occurring in 2006 (the reduction in the federal guaranty on new loans to 97 percent) and 2007 (the repeal of the Exceptional Performer designation, under which claims were paid at 99 percent). The majority of our FFELP loans now possess a federal guaranty level on claims filed to either 97 percent or 73 Table of Contents 98 percent depending on date of disbursement. The increase in charge offs is also due to the continued weakening of the U.S. economy. See Private Education Loan Losses Activity in the Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses above for a discussion of net charge offs related to our Private Education Loans. Student Loan Premiums as a Percentage of Principal The following table presents student loan premiums paid as a percentage of the principal balance of student loans acquired for the respective periods. Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Volume Rate Volume Rate Volume Rate Student loan premiums paid: Internal lending brands FFELP $ 13,272 1.69 % $ 8,544 2.67 % $ 6,339 1.81 % Internal lending brands Private 5,749 7,193 5,932 .01 Lender Partners FFELP 6,622 3.00 9,033 3.14 10,059 2.29 Lender Partners Private 688 695 .02 1,679 .01 Total 26,331 1.61 25,465 2.01 24,009 1.44 Other purchases(1) 907 1.26 8,473 4.16 6,228 4.39 Subtotal base purchases 27,238 1.59 33,938 2.54 30,237 2.05 Consolidation originations 611 1.98 2,441 2.72 4,188 2.54 Total $ 27,849 1.60 % $ 36,379 2.56 % $ 34,425 2.11 % (1) Primarily includes spot purchases (including Wholesale Consolidation Loans for the year ended December 31, 2007), other commitment clients, and subsidiary acquisitions. Premiums paid as a percentage of principal balance for both internal lending brands and lender partner volume can be impacted by Front End Borrower Benefits where we pay the origination fee and or federal guaranty fee on behalf of borrowers. Historically, this offered benefit had the impact of increasing the effective premium rate on the loan volume over time as this benefit was offered to a larger segment of our loan originations. During the first half of 2008, the Company suspended participation in the federal consolidation loan program and also discontinued subsidizing on behalf of borrowers the federally mandated Stafford loan origination fee for loans guaranteed after May 2, 2008. As a result, we expect and have seen our premiums decline on this volume in 2008. Declines in lender partner premiums will lag those of internal lending brands since acquisitions of lender partner volume may relate to loans originated in prior periods when the Front End Borrower Benefits were still being offered. Included in consolidation originations is the 0.5 percent FFELP Consolidation Loan origination fee paid on the total balance of new FFELP Consolidation Loans made prior to October 1, 2007 (and 1.0 percent for FFELP Consolidation Loans made after October 1, 2007), including internally consolidated loans from our existing portfolio. The consolidation originations premium paid percentage is calculated on only consolidation volume that is incremental to our portfolio. This percentage is largely driven by the mix of internal consolidations. As previously discussed, the Company suspended participation in the federal consolidation loan program in April 2008. 74 Table of Contents Student Loan Acquisitions The following tables summarize the components of our student loan acquisition activity for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Year Ended December 31, 2008 FFELP Private Total Internal lending brands and Lender Partners $ 19,894 $ 6,437 $ 26,331 Other commitment clients 701 701 Spot purchases 206 206 Consolidations from third parties 462 149 611 Consolidations and clean up calls of off balance sheet securitized loans 986 280 1,266 Capitalized interest, premiums and discounts 2,446 921 3,367 Total on balance sheet student loan acquisitions 24,695 7,787 32,482 Consolidations and clean up calls of off balance sheet securitized loans (986 ) (280 ) (1,266 ) Capitalized interest, premiums and discounts off balance sheet securitized loans 457 741 1,198 Total Managed student loan acquisitions $ 24,166 $ 8,248 $ 32,414 Year Ended December 31, 2007 FFELP Private Total Internal lending brands and Lender Partners $ 17,577 $ 7,888 $ 25,465 Wholesale Consolidations 7,048 7,048 Other commitment clients 248 57 305 Spot purchases 1,120 1,120 Consolidations from third parties 2,206 235 2,441 Consolidations and clean up calls of off balance sheet securitized loans 3,744 582 4,326 Capitalized interest, premiums and discounts 2,279 444 2,723 Total on balance sheet student loan acquisitions 34,222 9,206 43,428 Consolidations and clean up calls of off balance sheet securitized loans (3,744 ) (582 ) (4,326 ) Capitalized interest, premiums and discounts off balance sheet securitized loans 539 703 1,242 Total Managed student loan acquisitions $ 31,017 $ 9,327 $ 40,344 75 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2006 FFELP Private Total Internal lending brands and Lender Partners $ 16,398 $ 7,611 $ 24,009 Other commitment clients 457 61 518 Spot purchases 5,710 5,710 Consolidations from third parties 4,092 96 4,188 Consolidations and clean up calls of off balance sheet securitized loans 7,141 255 7,396 Capitalized interest, premiums and discounts 1,716 146 1,862 Total on balance sheet student loan acquisitions 35,514 8,169 43,683 Consolidations and clean up calls of off balance sheet securitized loans (7,141 ) (255 ) (7,396 ) Capitalized interest, premiums and discounts off balance sheet securitized loans 658 472 1,130 Total Managed student loan acquisitions $ 29,031 $ 8,386 $ 37,417 As shown in the above tables, off balance sheet FFELP Stafford loans that consolidate with us become an on balance sheet interest earning asset. This activity results in impairments of our Retained Interests in securitizations, but this is offset by an increase in on balance sheet interest earning assets, for which we do not record an offsetting gain. The following table includes on balance sheet asset information for our Lending business segment. December 31, 2008 2007 2006 FFELP Stafford and Other Student Loans, net $ 44,025 $ 35,726 $ 24,841 FFELP Stafford Loans Held for Sale 8,451 FFELP Consolidation Loans, net 71,744 73,609 61,324 Managed Private Education Loans, net 20,582 14,818 9,755 Other loans, net 729 1,174 1,309 Investments(1) 8,445 14,870 8,175 Retained Interest in off balance sheet securitized loans 2,200 3,044 3,341 Other(2) 9,947 8,953 4,859 Total assets $ 166,123 $ 152,194 $ 113,604 (1) Investments include cash and cash equivalents, short and long term investments, restricted cash and investments, leveraged leases, and municipal bonds. (2) Other assets include accrued interest receivable, goodwill and acquired intangible assets and other non interest earning assets. Loan Originations The Company originates loans under its own brand names, which we refer to as internal lending brands, and also through Lender Partners under forward contracts to purchase loans at contractual prices. In the past, we referred to these combined channels as Preferred Channel Originations. As discussed at the beginning of this LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT, legislative changes and credit market conditions have resulted in other FFELP lenders reducing their participation in the FFELP program. As a result of the impacts described above, our FFELP internal brand originations were up sharply in 2008, increasing 48 percent from the prior year. Our FFELP lender partner originations declined 49 percent from 2007 to 2008. A number of these Lender Partners, including some of our largest originators representing 76 Table of Contents approximately 49 percent of the decline in Lender Partner originations from the year ended December 31, 2007 have converted to third party servicing arrangements in which we service loans on behalf of these parties. Consistent with our announcement in the first quarter that we were tightening our private credit lending standards and ceasing non traditional lending, Private Education Loan originations declined 20 percent to $6.3 billion in the year ended December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2008, the Company was committed to purchase $2.3 billion of loans originated by our lender partners ($1.6 billion of FFELP loans and $.7 billion of Private Education Loans). Approximately $.8 billion of these FFELP loans were originated prior to CCRAA. Approximately $.5 billion of these FFELP loans are eligible for EDs Purchase and Participation Programs (see LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES ED Funding Programs). The following tables summarize our loan originations by type of loan and source. Years Ended December 31, December 31, December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Loan Originations Internal lending brands Stafford $ 11,593 $ 7,404 $ 5,398 PLUS 1,437 1,439 1,349 GradPLUS 801 498 192 Total FFELP 13,831 9,341 6,939 Private Education Loans 5,791 7,267 6,129 Total $ 19,622 $ 16,608 $ 13,068 Years Ended December 31, December 31, December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Loan Originations Lender Partners Stafford $ 3,652 $ 6,963 $ 7,786 PLUS 362 855 1,191 GradPLUS 62 103 54 Total FFELP 4,076 7,921 9,031 Private Education Loans 545 648 1,282 Total $ 4,621 $ 8,569 $ 10,313 77 Table of Contents Student Loan Activity The following tables summarize the activity in our on balance sheet, off balance sheet and Managed portfolios of FFELP student loans and Private Education Loans and highlight the effects of FFELP Consolidation Loan activity on our FFELP portfolios. On Balance Sheet Year Ended December 31, 2008 FFELP FFELP Total Private Total On Stafford and Consolidation Total Education Balance Sheet Other(1) Loans FFELP Loans Portfolio Beginning balance $ 35,726 $ 73,609 $ 109,335 $ 14,818 $ 124,153 Net consolidations: Incremental consolidations from third parties 462 462 149 611 Consolidations to third parties (703 ) (392 ) (1,095 ) (41 ) (1,136 ) Net consolidations (703 ) 70 (633 ) 108 (525 ) Acquisitions 21,889 1,358 23,247 7,357 30,604 Net acquisitions 21,186 1,428 22,614 7,465 30,079 Internal consolidations(2) (409 ) 529 120 228 348 Off balance sheet securitizations Repayments/claims/resales/other (4,027 ) (3,822 ) (7,849 ) (1,929 ) (9,778 ) Ending balance $ 52,476 $ 71,744 $ 124,220 $ 20,582 $ 144,802 Off Balance Sheet Year Ended December 31, 2008 FFELP FFELP Total Private Total Off Stafford and Consolidation Total Education Balance Sheet Other(1) Loans FFELP Loans Portfolio Beginning balance $ 9,472 $ 16,441 $ 25,913 $ 13,510 $ 39,423 Net consolidations: Incremental consolidations from third parties Consolidations to third parties (311 ) (83 ) (394 ) (57 ) (451 ) Net consolidations (311 ) (83 ) (394 ) (57 ) (451 ) Acquisitions 246 211 457 742 1,199 Net acquisitions (65 ) 128 63 685 748 Internal consolidations(2) (84 ) (36 ) (120 ) (228 ) (348 ) Off balance sheet securitizations Repayments/claims/resales/other (2,180 ) (1,002 ) (3,182 ) (1,050 ) (4,232 ) Ending balance $ 7,143 $ 15,531 $ 22,674 $ 12,917 $ 35,591 Managed Portfolio Year Ended December 31, 2008 FFELP FFELP Total Private Total Stafford and Consolidation Total Education Managed Basis Other(1) Loans FFELP Loans Portfolio Beginning balance $ 45,198 $ 90,050 $ 135,248 $ 28,328 $ 163,576 Net consolidations: Incremental consolidations from third parties 462 462 149 611 Consolidations to third parties (1,014 ) (475 ) (1,489 ) (98 ) (1,587 ) Net consolidations (1,014 ) (13 ) (1,027 ) 51 (976 ) Acquisitions 22,135 1,569 23,704 8,099 31,803 Net acquisitions 21,121 1,556 22,677 8,150 30,827 Internal consolidations(2) (493 ) 493 Off balance sheet securitizations Repayments/claims/resales/other (6,207 ) (4,824 ) (11,031 ) (2,979 ) (14,010 ) Ending balance(3) $ 59,619 $ 87,275 $ 146,894 $ 33,499 $ 180,393 Total Managed Acquisitions(4) $ 22,135 $ 2,031 $ 24,166 $ 8,248 $ 32,414 (1) FFELP category is primarily Stafford loans and also includes PLUS and HEAL loans. (2) Represents loans that we either own on balance sheet or loans that we consolidated from our off balance sheet securitization trusts. (3) As of December 31, 2008, the ending balance includes $13.7 billion of FFELP Stafford and Other Loans and $2.6 billion of FFELP Consolidation Loans disbursed on or after October 1, 2007, which are impacted by CCRAA legislation. (4) The Total Managed Acquisitions line includes incremental consolidations from third parties and acquisitions. 78 Table of Contents On Balance Sheet Year Ended December 31, 2007 FFELP Total Stafford FFELP Private Total On and Consolidation Total Education Balance Sheet Other(1) Loans FFELP Loans Portfolio Beginning balance $ 24,841 $ 61,324 $ 86,165 $ 9,755 $ 95,920 Net consolidations: Incremental consolidations from third parties 2,206 2,206 235 2,441 Consolidations to third parties (2,352 ) (801 ) (3,153 ) (45 ) (3,198 ) Net consolidations (2,352 ) 1,405 (947 ) 190 (757 ) Acquisitions 19,835 8,437 28,272 8,388 36,660 Net acquisitions 17,483 9,842 27,325 8,578 35,903 Internal consolidations (4,413 ) 6,652 2,239 536 2,775 Off balance sheet securitizations (1,871 ) (1,871 ) Repayments/claims/resales/other (2,185 ) (4,209 ) (6,394 ) (2,180 ) (8,574 ) Ending balance $ 35,726 $ 73,609 $ 109,335 $ 14,818 $ 124,153 Off Balance Sheet Year Ended December 31, 2007 FFELP Total Stafford FFELP Private Total Off and Consolidation Total Education Balance Sheet Other(1) Loans FFELP Loans Portfolio Beginning balance $ 15,028 $ 18,311 $ 33,339 $ 12,833 $ 46,172 Net consolidations: Incremental consolidations from third parties Consolidations to third parties (933 ) (207 ) (1,140 ) (93 ) (1,233 ) Net consolidations (933 ) (207 ) (1,140 ) (93 ) (1,233 ) Acquisitions 330 209 539 704 1,243 Net acquisitions (603 ) 2 (601 ) 611 10 Internal consolidations(2) (1,494 ) (745 ) (2,239 ) (536 ) (2,775 ) Off balance sheet securitizations 1,871 1,871 Repayments/claims/resales/other (3,459 ) (1,127 ) (4,586 ) (1,269 ) (5,855 ) Ending balance $ 9,472 $ 16,441 $ 25,913 $ 13,510 $ 39,423 Managed Portfolio Year Ended December 31, 2007 FFELP Total Stafford FFELP Private Total and Consolidation Total Education Managed Other(1) Loans FFELP Loans Basis Portfolio Beginning balance $ 39,869 $ 79,635 $ 119,504 $ 22,588 $ 142,092 Net consolidations: Incremental consolidations from third parties 2,206 2,206 235 2,441 Consolidations to third parties (3,285 ) (1,008 ) (4,293 ) (138 ) (4,431 ) Net consolidations (3,285 ) 1,198 (2,087 ) 97 (1,990 ) Acquisitions 20,165 8,646 28,811 9,092 37,903 Net acquisitions 16,880 9,844 26,724 9,189 35,913 Internal consolidations(2) (5,907 ) 5,907 Off balance sheet securitizations Repayments/claims/resales/other (5,644 ) (5,336 ) (10,980 ) (3,449 ) (14,429 ) Ending balance(3) $ 45,198 $ 90,050 $ 135,248 $ 28,328 $ 163,576 Total Managed Acquisitions(4) $ 20,165 $ 10,852 $ 31,017 $ 9,327 $ 40,344 (1) FFELP category is primarily Stafford loans and also includes PLUS and HEAL loans. (2) Represents loans that we either own on balance sheet or loans that we consolidated from our off balance sheet securitization trusts. (3) As of December 31, 2007, the ending balance includes $1.3 billion of FFELP Stafford and Other Loans and $1.4 billion of FFELP Consolidation Loans disbursed on or after October 1, 2007, which are impacted by CCRAA legislation. (4) The Total Managed Acquisitions line includes incremental consolidations from third parties and acquisitions. 79 Table of Contents On Balance Sheet Year Ended December 31, 2006 FFELP Total Stafford FFELP Private Total On and Consolidation Total Education Balance Sheet Other(1) Loans FFELP Loans Portfolio Beginning balance $ 19,988 $ 54,859 $ 74,847 $ 7,757 $ 82,604 Net consolidations: Incremental consolidations from third parties 4,092 4,092 96 4,188 Consolidations to third parties (2,201 ) (2,078 ) (4,279 ) (14 ) (4,293 ) Net consolidations (2,201 ) 2,014 (187 ) 82 (105 ) Acquisitions 19,585 4,697 24,282 7,818 32,100 Net acquisitions 17,384 6,711 24,095 7,900 31,995 Internal consolidations (5,973 ) 11,931 5,958 254 6,212 Off balance sheet securitizations (5,034 ) (9,638 ) (14,672 ) (4,737 ) (19,409 ) Repayments/claims/resales/other (1,524 ) (2,539 ) (4,063 ) (1,419 ) (5,482 ) Ending balance $ 24,841 $ 61,324 $ 86,165 $ 9,755 $ 95,920 Off Balance Sheet Year Ended December 31, 2006 FFELP Total Stafford FFELP Private Total Off and Consolidation Total Education Balance Sheet Other(1) Loans FFELP Loans Portfolio Beginning balance $ 20,670 $ 10,575 $ 31,245 $ 8,680 $ 39,925 Net consolidations: Incremental consolidations from third parties Consolidations to third parties (2,258 ) (672 ) (2,930 ) (32 ) (2,962 ) Net consolidations (2,258 ) (672 ) (2,930 ) (32 ) (2,962 ) Acquisitions 424 233 657 472 1,129 Net acquisitions (1,834 ) (439 ) (2,273 ) 440 (1,833 ) Internal consolidations(2) (5,366 ) (592 ) (5,958 ) (254 ) (6,212 ) Off balance sheet securitizations 5,034 9,638 14,672 4,737 19,409 Repayments/claims/resales/other (3,476 ) (871 ) (4,347 ) (770 ) (5,117 ) Ending balance $ 15,028 $ 18,311 $ 33,339 $ 12,833 $ 46,172 Managed Portfolio Year Ended December 31, 2006 FFELP Total Stafford FFELP Private and Consolidation Total Education Total Managed Other(1) Loans FFELP Loans Basis Portfolio Beginning balance $ 40,658 $ 65,434 $ 106,092 $ 16,437 $ 122,529 Net consolidations: Incremental consolidations from third parties 4,092 4,092 96 4,188 Consolidations to third parties (4,459 ) (2,750 ) (7,209 ) (46 ) (7,255 ) Net consolidations (4,459 ) 1,342 (3,117 ) 50 (3,067 ) Acquisitions 20,009 4,930 24,939 8,290 33,229 Net acquisitions 15,550 6,272 21,822 8,340 30,162 Internal consolidations(2) (11,339 ) 11,339 Off balance sheet securitizations Repayments/claims/resales/other (5,000 ) (3,410 ) (8,410 ) (2,189 ) (10,599 ) Ending balance $ 39,869 $ 79,635 $ 119,504 $ 22,588 $ 142,092 Total Managed Acquisitions(3) $ 20,009 $ 9,022 $ 29,031 $ 8,386 $ 37,417 (1) FFELP category is primarily Stafford loans and also includes PLUS and HEAL loans. (2) Represents FFELP/Stafford loans that we either own on balance sheet or in our off balance sheet securitization trusts that we consolidate. (3) The Total Managed Acquisitions line includes incremental consolidations from third parties and acquisitions. The significant amount of consolidations to third parties in 2006 reflects FFELP lenders reconsolidating FFELP Consolidation Loans using the FDLP as a pass through entity, a practice which was severely restricted by The Higher Education Reconciliation Act of 2005 as of July 1, 2006. Additionally, the increases in 2006 80 Table of Contents and 2007 also reflect the effect of the repeal of the single holder rule, which was effective for applications received on or after June 15, 2006. The single holder rule had previously required that when a lender held all of the FFELP Stafford loans of a particular borrower whose loans were held by a single lender, in most cases that borrower could only obtain a FFELP Consolidation Loan from that lender. During 2006, Private Education Loan consolidations were introduced as a separate product line. We expect this product line to grow in the future and will aggressively protect our portfolio against third party consolidation of Private Education Loans. Other Income Lending Business Segment The following table summarizes the components of other income, net, for our Lending business segment for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Late fees and forbearance fees $ 143 $ 134 $ 119 Gains on sales of mortgages and other loan fees 3 11 15 Gains (losses) on sales of student loans (51 ) 24 2 Other 85 25 41 Total other income, net $ 180 $ 194 $ 177 The Company periodically sells student loans. The timing and amount of loan sales impacts the amount of recognized gains on sales of student loans. The $51 million loss in 2008 primarily relates to the sale of approximately $1.0 billion of FFELP loans sold to ED under ECASLA. (See LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES ED Funding Programs for further discussion.) The increase in other income of $60 million from 2007 to 2008 primarily related to approximately $68 million of gains recognized on the Companys repurchase of a portion of its unsecured debt with short term maturities. Operating Expenses Lending Business Segment The following table summarizes the components of operating expenses for our Lending business segment for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Sales and originations $ 241 $ 351 $ 327 Servicing 237 227 201 Corporate overhead 111 112 117 Total operating expenses $ 589 $ 690 $ 645 Operating expenses for our Lending business segment include costs incurred to service our Managed student loan portfolio and acquire student loans, as well as other general and administrative expenses. 2008 versus 2007 Operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008, decreased by 15 percent from the prior year. The decrease is primarily due to the impact of our cost reduction initiatives and to the suspension of certain student loan programs. 2007 versus 2006 Operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2007, increased by 7 percent over the prior year. The increase is primarily due to increased consolidation and higher education sales and marketing expenses, Private Education Loan collection costs, and severance related expenses. 81 Table of Contents ASSET PERFORMANCE GROUP (APG) BUSINESS SEGMENT In our APG business segment, we provide a wide range of accounts receivable and collections services including student loan default aversion services, defaulted student loan portfolio management services, contingency collections services for student loans and other asset classes, and accounts receivable management and collection for purchased portfolios of receivables that are delinquent or have been charged off by their original creditors as well as sub performing and non performing mortgage loans. In the purchased receivables business, we focus on a variety of consumer debt types with emphasis on charged off credit card receivables and distressed mortgage receivables. We purchase these portfolios at a discount to their face value, and then use both our internal collection operations coupled with third party collection agencies to maximize the recovery on these receivables. An overview of this segment and recent developments that have significantly impacted this segment are included in the Item 1. Business section of this document. The private sector collections industry is highly fragmented with few large public companies and a large number of small scale privately held companies. The collections industry is highly competitive. We are responding to these competitive challenges through enhanced servicing efficiencies and by continuing to build on customer relationships through value added services and financings. Condensed Statements of Income The following tables include Core Earnings results of operations for our APG business segment. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Purchased Purchased Paper Paper Non Mortgage/ Contingency Mortgage Properties Other Total APG Contingency fee income $ 10 $ $ 330 $ 340 Collections revenue (loss) 129 (192 ) (63 ) Total income (loss) 139 (192 ) 330 277 Restructuring expenses 6 1 5 12 Operating expenses 193 38 167 398 Total expenses 199 39 172 410 Net interest expense 13 4 8 25 Income (loss) before income taxes and minority interest in net earnings of subsidiaries (73 ) (235 ) 150 (158 ) Income tax expense (benefit) (26 ) (83 ) 53 (56 ) Income (loss) before minority interest in net earnings of subsidiaries (47 ) (152 ) 97 (102 ) Minority interest in net earnings of subsidiaries 4 4 Core Earnings net income (loss) $ (51 ) $ (152 ) $ 97 $ (106 ) 82 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2007 Purchased Purchased Paper Paper Non Mortgage/ Contingency Mortgage Properties Other Total APG Contingency fee income $ 9 $ $ 327 $ 336 Collections revenue 217 52 269 Total income 226 52 327 605 Restructuring expenses 1 1 2 Operating expenses 164 28 196 388 Total expenses 165 28 197 390 Net interest expense 13 5 9 27 Income before income taxes and minority interest in net earnings of subsidiaries 48 19 121 188 Income tax expense 18 7 45 70 Income before minority interest in net earnings of subsidiaries 30 12 76 118 Minority interest in net earnings of subsidiaries 2 2 Core Earnings net income $ 28 $ 12 $ 76 $ 116 Year Ended December 31, 2006 Purchased Purchased Paper Paper Non Mortgage/ Contingency Mortgage Properties Other Total APG Contingency fee income $ 24 $ $ 373 $ 397 Collections revenue 199 40 239 Total income 223 40 373 636 Restructuring expenses Operating expenses 145 19 194 358 Total expenses 145 19 194 358 Net interest expense 10 4 9 23 Income before income taxes and minority interest in net earnings of subsidiaries 68 17 170 255 Income tax expense 25 6 63 94 Income before minority interest in net earnings of subsidiaries 43 11 107 161 Minority interest in net earnings of subsidiaries 4 4 Core Earnings net income $ 39 $ 11 $ 107 $ 157 Collections Revenue The Company has concluded that its APG purchased paper businesses no longer produce a mutual strategic fit. The Company finalized the sale of its international Purchased Paper Non Mortgage business in the first quarter of 2009. At December 31, 2008, the net assets of this business were classified as held for sale. Accordingly, in 2008, the Company wrote down the net assets to their estimated fair value and recognized a $51 million loss on the sale of this business in 2008. 83 Table of Contents The Company continues to wind down the domestic side of its Purchased Paper Non Mortgage and Purchased Paper Mortgage/Properties businesses. The Company will continue to consider opportunities to sell these businesses at acceptable prices in the future. The Companys domestic Purchased Paper Non Mortgage business has certain forward purchase obligations under which the Company is committed to buy purchased paper from January 2009 through April 2009 at a purchase price of approximately $28 million. The Company will not buy any additional purchased paper in excess of these obligations. Due to the continued weakening of the U.S. economy, the Company lowered its assumed collection rates it expects to achieve related to this portfolio in the third quarter of 2008. This assumption change resulted in impairments of $55 million in 2008 versus $17 million in 2007. The Companys Purchased Paper Mortgage/Properties business will not purchase any new mortgage/property assets and will work out and liquidate its portfolio as quickly and economically as possible. In 2008, real estate values declined significantly as a result of the weakening U.S. economy and expected future resolution time frames were extended, resulting in impairments of $262 million in 2008 versus $4 million in 2007. Contingency Fee Income The contingency fee income for the year ended December 31, 2008 was relatively unchanged compared to 2007. The $61 million decrease in contingency fee income for the year ended December 31, 2007 versus 2006 was primarily due to a 2006 legislative change that reduced fees paid for collections via loan consolidation and direct cash collections. In addition, the 2006 legislation changed the policy governing rehabilitated loans by reducing the number of consecutive payments to qualify for a loan rehabilitation from twelve months to nine months. This accelerated process added approximately $36 million of incremental revenue in 2006. To a lesser extent, 2007 was negatively impacted by lower performance in default prevention. Purchased Paper Non Mortgage Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Face value of purchases for the period $ 5,353 $ 6,111 $ 3,438 Purchase price for the period 483 556 278 % of face value purchased 9.0 % 9.1 % 8.1 % Gross cash collections (GCC) $ 655 $ 463 $ 348 Collections revenue 129 217 199 Collections revenue as a % of GCC 20 % 47 % 56 % Carrying value of purchased paper $ 544 $ 587 $ 274 The decrease in collections revenue as a percentage of gross cash collections (GCC) in 2008 compared to 2007 and 2006 was primarily due to the significant impairment recognized in 2008. Purchased Paper Mortgage/Properties Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Face value of purchases for the period $ 39 $ 1,307 $ 556 Collections revenue, net of impairments (192 ) 52 40 Collateral value of purchases 29 1,171 607 Purchase price for the period 19 855 462 Purchase price as a % of collateral value 66 % 73 % 76 % Carrying value of purchases $ 675 $ 1,162 $ 518 Carrying value of purchased paper as a % of collateral value 69 % 77 % 75 % 84 Table of Contents The carrying value of purchased paper (the basis we carry on our balance sheet) as a percentage of collateral fair value has decreased in 2008 as a result of the significant impairment recognized during the year. Contingency Inventory The following table presents the outstanding inventory of receivables serviced through our APG business segment. These assets are not on our balance sheet. Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Contingency: Student loans $ 9,852 $ 8,195 $ 6,971 Other 1,726 1,509 1,667 Total $ 11,578 $ 9,704 $ 8,638 Operating Expenses APG Business Segment For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, operating expenses for the APG contingency and other businesses totaled $167 million, $196 million and $194 million, respectively. The decrease in operating expenses in 2008 versus prior years is primarily due to the Companys cost reduction initiatives. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, operating expenses for the APG purchased paper businesses totaled $231 million, $192 million and $164 million, respectively. The increase over the prior year is primarily due to higher collection costs. At December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the APG business segment had total assets of $2.0 billion, $2.6 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. 85 Table of Contents CORPORATE AND OTHER BUSINESS SEGMENT Our Corporate and Other reportable segment reflects the aggregate activity of our smaller operating units including our Guarantor Servicing and Loan Servicing operating units, Upromise (acquired in August 2006), other products and services, as well as corporate expenses that do not pertain directly to our operating segments. In our Guarantor Servicing operating unit, we provide a full complement of administrative services to FFELP guarantors, including guarantee issuance, processing, account maintenance and guarantee fulfillment. In our Loan Servicing operating unit, we originate and service student loans on behalf of lenders who are unrelated to SLM Corporation. In our Upromise operating unit, we provide 529 college savings plan program management, transfer and servicing agent, and administration services and operate a consumer savings network. Condensed Statements of Income The following tables include Core Earnings results of operations for our Corporate and Other business segment. Years Ended December 31, % Increase (Decrease) 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 Net interest income (loss) after provisions for losses $ 6 $ (1 ) $ (5 ) 700 % 80 % Guarantor servicing fees 121 156 132 (22 ) 18 Loan servicing fees 26 23 29 13 (21 ) Upromise 108 110 42 (2 ) 162 Other 65 85 84 (24 ) 1 Total fee and other income 320 374 287 (14 ) 30 Restructuring expenses 23 2 1,050 100 Operating expenses 277 339 250 (18 ) 36 Total expenses 300 341 250 (12 ) 36 Income before income taxes 26 32 32 (19 ) Income tax expense 9 12 12 (25 ) Core Earnings net income $ 17 $ 20 $ 20 (15 )% % USA Funds, the nations largest guarantee agency, accounted for 85 percent, 86 percent and 83 percent, respectively, of guarantor servicing fees and 11 percent, 16 percent and 25 percent, respectively, of revenues associated with other products and services for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. 2008 versus 2007 The decrease in guarantor servicing fees from 2007 to 2008 was primarily due to the recognition of $15 million in the fourth quarter of 2007 of previously deferred guarantee account maintenance fee revenue related to a negotiated settlement with USA Funds as discussed further below, as well as to a decrease in the account maintenance fees earned in 2008 due to the legislative changes effective October 1, 2007 as a result of CCRAA. 2007 versus 2006 The increase in guarantor servicing fees from 2006 to 2007 was primarily due to the recognition of $15 million of previously deferred guarantee account maintenance fee revenue related to a negotiated settlement with USA Funds in the second quarter of 2006. The negotiated settlement with USA Funds would have resulted in the Company having to return the $15 million to USA Funds, if certain events occurred prior 86 Table of Contents to December 31, 2007. These events did not occur prior to December 31, 2007, as stipulated in the negotiated settlement. As a result, all such contingencies were removed, resulting in the recognition of this deferred revenue in 2007. This amount is non recurring in nature. The increase in fees from Upromise for the year ended December 31, 2007 versus the year ago period was primarily due to 2007 having a full year of fees from Upromise, which was acquired in August 2006. Operating Expenses Corporate and Other Business Segment The following table summarizes the components of operating expenses for our Corporate and Other business segment. Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Operating expenses $ 90 $ 109 $ 148 Upromise 91 94 33 General and administrative expenses 96 136 69 Total $ 277 $ 339 $ 250 Operating expenses for our Corporate and Other business segment include direct costs incurred to service loans for unrelated third parties, perform guarantor servicing on behalf of guarantor agencies, and operate our Upromise subsidiary, as well as information technology expenses related to these functions. Operating expenses also include unallocated corporate overhead expenses for centralized headquarters functions. 2008 versus 2007 The decrease in operating expenses in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to $56 million of non recurring Proposed Merger related expenses in 2007, as well as the Companys cost reduction initiatives. 2007 versus 2006 Operating expenses decreased $39 million in 2007 due primarily to the sale of the Noel Levitz subsidiary in the second half of 2007. General and administrative expenses increased $67 million in 2007 compared to the year ago period, primarily due to Proposed Merger related expenses of $56 million. The increase in Upromise expenses from 2006 to 2007 was primarily due to 2007 having a full year of expenses for Upromise, which was acquired in August 2006. At December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Corporate and Other business segment had total assets of $685 million, $780 million and $999 million, respectively. 87 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The following LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES discussion concentrates on our Lending business segment. Our APG contingency collections and Corporate and Other business segments are not capital intensive businesses and as such, a minimal amount of debt capital is allocated to these segments. Historically, we funded new loan originations with a combination of unsecured debt and student loan asset backed securities. Following the Proposed Merger announcement in April 2007, we temporarily suspended issuance of unsecured debt and began funding loan originations primarily through the issuance of student loan asset backed securities and secured student loan financing facilities. In June 2008, the Company re entered the corporate bond market with a $2.5 billion issue of 10 year senior unsecured notes. In August 2008, we began funding new FFELP Stafford and PLUS student loan originations for AY 2008 2009 pursuant to EDs Loan Participation Program, as described below. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company began retaining its Private Education Loan originations in our banking subsidiary, Sallie Mae Bank, and funding these assets with term bank deposits. In the near term, we expect to continue to use EDs Purchase and Participation Programs to fund future FFELP Stafford and PLUS loan originations and to use deposits to fund Private Education Loan originations. We plan to use term asset backed securities, asset backed financing facilities, cash flow provided by earnings and repayment of principal on our unencumbered student loan assets, as well as other sources, to refinance maturing debt and provide cash for operations and other needs. ED Funding Programs In August 2008, ED implemented the Loan Purchase Commitment Program (Purchase Program) and the Loan Participation Program (Participation Program) pursuant to ECASLA. Under the Purchase Program, ED purchases eligible FFELP loans at a price equal to the sum of (i) par value, (ii) accrued interest, (iii) the one percent origination fee paid to ED, and (iv) a fixed amount of $75 per loan. Under the Participation Program, ED provides interim short term liquidity to FFELP lenders by purchasing participation interests in pools of FFELP loans. FFELP lenders are charged at a rate of commercial paper plus 0.50 percent on the principal amount of participation interests outstanding. Loans funded under the Participation Program must be either refinanced by the lender or sold to ED pursuant to the Purchase Program prior to its expiration on September 30, 2009. Given the state of the credit markets, we currently expect to sell all of the loans we fund under the Participation Program to ED on or before the programs expiration date. Loans eligible for the Participation or Purchase Programs were originally limited to FFELP Stafford or PLUS, first disbursed between May 1, 2008 and July 1, 2009, with no ongoing borrower benefits, other than permitted rate reductions of 0.25 percent for automatic payment processing. On October 7, 2008, legislation was enacted extending EDs authority to address FFELP Stafford and PLUS loans made for AYs 2009 2010, and allowing for the extension of EDs Purchase and Participation Programs from September 30, 2009 to September 30, 2010. On November 8, 2008, ED formally announced new purchase and participation programs which cover eligible loans originated for the AY 2009 2010. On January 15, 2009, ED announced that the terms of the programs for AY 2009 2010 will replicate in all material respects the terms of the programs for AY 2008 2009. On August 14, 2008, the Company received its initial advance under the Participation Program. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had $7.4 billion of advances outstanding under the Participation Program. The Company is classifying all loans eligible to be sold to ED under the Purchase Program as held for sale. Held for sale loans are carried at the lower of cost or market with no premium amortization or provision expenses. At December 31, 2008, the Company had approximately $8.0 billion of FFELP loans classified as held for sale related to this program. These loans are included in the FFELP Stafford Loans Held for Sale line on the consolidated balance sheets. Also pursuant to ECASLA, on January 15, 2009, ED published summary terms under which it will purchase eligible FFELP Stafford and PLUS loans from a conduit vehicle established to provide funding for eligible student lenders (the ED Conduit Program). Loans eligible for the ED Conduit Program must be first disbursed on or after October 1, 2003, but not later than June 30, 2009, and fully disbursed before June 30, 2009, and meet certain other requirements including with respect to borrower benefits. Funding for the ED 88 Table of Contents Conduit Program will be provided by the capital markets at a cost based on market rates. The ED Conduit Program will have a term of five years. An estimated $16.0 billion of our Stafford and PLUS loans (excluding loans currently in the Participation Program) were eligible for funding under the ED Conduit Program as of December 31, 2008. We expect to utilize the ED Conduit Program to fund a significant percentage of these assets over time. The initial funding under the ED Conduit Program is expected to occur in the first quarter of 2009. On November 20, 2008, ED announced it was using its authority under ECASLA to directly purchase certain eligible FFELP Stafford and PLUS loans originated during AY 2007 2008. This purchase program began in December 2008 and will end the earlier of the date the ED Conduit Program becomes operational or February 28, 2009. Pursuant to this program, ED proposed to purchase up to a total of $6.5 billion of loans, in increments of up to $500 million per week, at a price of 97 percent of principal and unpaid interest. In late December 2008, we sold to ED approximately $494 million (principal and accrued interest) of qualifying FFELP loans and realized $480 million in net proceeds. In early January 2009, we executed an additional asset sale under the program of approximately $486 million (principal and accrued interest) and received $472 million in net proceeds. The related loss was recognized in the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2008, as the loans were classified as held for sale under GAAP. Our servicing rights on the loans were released upon sale. Additional Funding Sources for General Corporate Purposes The Company has encountered many challenges to its business model over the course of the last several years. In order to continue to meet our mission of providing access to higher education we have worked with Congress, ED and the Treasury Department to find solutions to those challenges that have been created by market conditions. In addition to funding FFELP loans through EDs Participation and Purchase Programs, the Company employs other financing sources for general corporate purposes, which includes originating Private Education Loans and repayments of unsecured debt obligations. During the fourth quarter of 2008, Sallie Mae Bank, our Utah banking subsidiary, began expanding its deposit base to fund new Private Education Loan originations. Sallie Mae Bank raises deposits primarily through intermediaries in the retail brokered CD market. From the period October 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008, Sallie Mae Bank raised $1.6 billion of term bank deposits with a weighted average life of 2.2 years and a weighted average cost of approximately three month LIBOR plus 0.97 percent. As of December 31, 2008, total term bank deposits were $2.3 billion. We expect Sallie Mae Bank to fund newly originated Private Education Loans by continuing to raise term bank deposits. We ultimately expect to raise long term financing, through Private Education Loan securitizations or otherwise, to fund these loans. We completed nine FFELP term ABS transactions totaling $18.5 billion during the nine months ended September 30, 2008. We did not complete an ABS transaction during the fourth quarter of 2008. Although we expect ABS financing to remain our primary source of funding over the long term, we expect our transaction volumes to be more limited and pricing less favorable than prior to the credit market dislocation that began in the summer of 2007, with significantly reduced opportunities to place subordinated tranches of ABS with investors. All in costs of our new issue FFELP term ABS averaged LIBOR plus 1.25 percent for the full year ended December 31, 2008. Since late September 2008, there has been severe dislocation in the financial markets. At present, we are unable to predict when market conditions will allow for more regular and reliable access to the term ABS market. During the first quarter of 2008, the Company entered into three new asset backed financing facilities (the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities): (i) a $26.0 billion FFELP student loan ABCP conduit facility; (ii) a $5.9 billion Private Education Loan ABCP conduit facility (collectively, the 2008 ABCP Facilities); and (iii) a $2.0 billion secured FFELP loan facility (the 2008 Asset Backed Loan Facility). The initial term of the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities is 364 days. The underlying cost of borrowing under the 2008 89 Table of Contents ABCP Facilities is approximately LIBOR plus 0.68 percent for the FFELP loan facilities and LIBOR plus 1.55 percent for the Private Education Loan facility, excluding up front and unused commitment fees. All in pricing on the 2008 ABCP Facilities varies based on usage. For the full year 2008, the combined, all in cost of borrowings related to the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities, including amortized up front fees and unused commitment fees, was three month LIBOR plus 2.47 percent. The primary use of the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities was to refinance comparable asset backed commercial paper facilities incurred in connection with the Proposed Merger, with the expectation that outstanding balances under the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities would be reduced through securitization of the underlying student loan collateral in the term ABS market. Funding under the 2008 Asset backed Financing Facilities is subject to usual and customary conditions. In the third quarter of 2008, the Company reduced the commitments under its Private Education Loan ABCP conduit facility by approximately $2.2 billion to $3.7 billion and the commitments under its FFELP ABCP Facilities by $4.1 billion to $21.9 billion. There were no changes to interest rates, maturity or other terms of the facilities made in connection with the reductions. The Company reduced these commitments after an analysis of its ongoing liquidity needs and following its acceptance and funding under EDs Participation and Purchase Programs. The maximum amount the Company may borrow under the 2008 ABCP Facilities is limited based on certain factors, including market conditions and the fair value of student loans in the facility. As of December 31, 2008, the maximum borrowing amount was approximately $20.9 billion under the FFELP ABCP Facilities and $3.0 billion under the Private Education Loan ABCP Facility. The 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities are subject to termination under certain circumstances, including the Companys failure to comply with the principal financial covenants in its unsecured revolving credit facilities. On February 2, 2009, the Company extended the maturity date of the 2008 ABCP Facilities from February 28, 2009 to April 28, 2009 for a $61 million upfront fee. The other terms of the facilities remain materially unchanged. The Company expects to refinance the 2008 ABCP Facilities at a lower aggregate commitment than the $25.6 billion committed as of December 31, 2008. If the Company does not pay off all outstanding amounts of the 2008 ABCP Facilities at maturity, the facilities will extend by 90 days with the interest rate increasing each month during the 90 day period. The total increase in interest rates during this period is 1.5 percent to 2.0 percent depending on the facility. On February 27, 2009, the Company extended the maturity date of the 2008 Asset Backed Loan Facility from February 28, 2009 to April 28, 2009 for a $4 million upfront fee. The other terms of this facility remain materially unchanged. Borrowings under the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities are nonrecourse to the Company. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had $24.8 billion outstanding in connection with the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities. The book basis of the assets securing these facilities as of December 31, 2008 was $33.2 billion. On January 6, 2009 we closed a $1.5 billion, 12.5 year asset backed securities based facility. This facility will be used to provide up to $1.5 billion term financing for Private Education Loans. The fully utilized cost of financing obtained under this facility is expected to be LIBOR plus 5.75 percent. Secured borrowings, including securitizations, asset backed commercial paper (ABCP) borrowings and indentured trusts, comprised 78 percent of our Managed debt outstanding at December 31, 2008 versus 75 percent at December 31, 2007. On February 6, 2009, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York published proposed terms for a program designed to facilitate renewed issuance of consumer and small business asset backed securities (ABS) at lower interest rate spreads. As proposed, the U.S. Governments Term Asset Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) will provide investors with funding of up to three years for eligible ABS rated by two or more rating agencies in the highest investment grade rating category. Eligible ABS include AAA rated student loan ABS backed by FFELP and private student loans first disbursed since May 1, 2007. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $14 billion of student loans eligible to serve as collateral for ABS funded under TALF; this amount does not include loans eligible for ECASLA financing programs. The Federal Reserve Bank 90 Table of Contents expects to announce in the first quarter of 2009 when lending under TALF will commence. While we expect TALF to improve our access to and reduce our cost of ABS funding, we are unable to predict, at this time, the impact TALF will ultimately have on our funding activities. At December 31, 2008, we had $3.3 billion of taxable and $1.4 billion of tax exempt auction rate securities outstanding in on balance sheet securitizations and indentured trusts, respectively, on a Managed Basis. Since February 2008, an imbalance of supply and demand in the auction rate securities market as a whole led to failures of the auctions pursuant to which certain of our auction rate securities interest rates are set. As a result, all of the Companys auction rate securities as of December 31, 2008 bore interest at the maximum rate allowable under their terms. The maximum allowable interest rate on our $3.3 billion of taxable auction rate securities is generally LIBOR plus 1.50 percent. The maximum allowable interest rate on many of the Companys $1.4 billion of tax exempt auction rate securities was amended to LIBOR plus 2.00 percent through May 31, 2008. After May 31, 2008, the maximum allowable rate on these securities reverted to a formula driven rate, which produced various maximum rates up to 14 percent during 2008 but averaged 1.60 percent at December 31, 2008. Certain tranches of our term ABS are reset rate notes. Reset rate notes are subject to periodic remarketing, at which time the interest rates on the reset rate notes are reset. The Company also has the option to repurchase the reset rate note prior to a failed remarketing and hold it as an investment until such time it can be remarketed. In the event a reset rate note cannot be remarketed on its remarketing date, and is not repurchased, the interest rate generally steps up to and remains at LIBOR plus 0.75 percent, until such time as the bonds are successfully remarketed or repurchased. The Companys repurchase of a reset rate note requires additional funding, the availability and pricing of which may be less favorable to the Company than it was at the time the reset rate note was originally issued. Unlike the repurchase of a reset rate note, the occurrence of a failed remarketing does not require additional funding. As a result of the ongoing dislocation in the capital markets, at December 31, 2008, $407 million of our reset rate notes, representing a single tranche of a single ABS issue, bore interest at LIBOR plus 0.75 percent due to a failed remarketing. Until capital markets conditions improve, it is possible additional reset rate notes will experience failed remarketings. As of December 31, 2008, on a Managed Basis, the Company had $3.7 billion and $2.5 billion of reset rate notes due to be remarketed in 2009 and 2010, respectively, and an additional $8.5 billion to be remarketed thereafter. Primary Sources of Liquidity and Available Capacity We expect to fund our ongoing liquidity needs, including the origination of new loans and the repayment of $6.8 billion of senior unsecured notes maturing in 2009, through our current cash and investment portfolio, cash flow provided by earnings and repayment of principal on unencumbered student loan assets, the liquidity facilities made available by ED, TALF, the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities, the issuance of term ABS, term bank deposits, and, to a lesser extent, if possible, unsecured debt and other sources. To supplement our funding sources, we maintained an additional $5.2 billion in unsecured revolving credit facilities as of December 31, 2008. These facilities include a $1.4 billion revolving credit facility maturing in October 2009; $1.9 billion maturing in October 2010; and $1.9 billion maturing in October 2011. They do not include a $0.3 billion commitment from a subsidiary of Lehman Brothers Holding, Inc. The principal financial covenants in the unsecured revolving credit facilities require the Company to maintain tangible net worth of at least $1.38 billion at all times. Consolidated tangible net worth as calculated for purposes of this covenant was $3.2 billion as of December 31, 2008. The covenants also require the Company to meet either a minimum interest coverage ratio or a minimum net adjusted revenue test based on the four preceding quarters adjusted Core Earnings financial performance. The Company was compliant with the minimum net adjusted revenue test as of the quarter ended December 31, 2008. In the past, we have not relied upon our unsecured revolving credit facilities as a primary source of liquidity. Although we have never borrowed under these facilities, they are available to be drawn upon for general corporate purposes. 91 Table of Contents The following table details our primary sources of primary and stand by liquidity and the available capacity at December 31, 2008 and 2007. December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Available Capacity Available Capacity Sources of primary liquidity available for new FFELP Stafford and PLUS loan originations: ED Purchase and Participation Programs(1) Unlimited (1) Sources of primary liquidity for general corporate purposes: Unrestricted cash and liquid investments: Cash and cash equivalents $ 4,070 $ 7,582 U.S. Treasury backed securities 643 Commercial paper and asset backed commercial paper 801 1,349 Certificates of deposit 600 Other(2) 133 83 Total unrestricted cash and liquid investments(3)(4)(5) 5,004 10,257 Unused commercial paper and bank lines of credit (6) 5,192 6,500 2008 FFELP ABCP Facilities 807 2008 Private Credit ABCP Facilities 332 ABCP borrowing capacity 5,933 Interim ABCP Facility borrowing capacity 4,040 Total sources of primary liquidity for general corporate purposes 11,335 26,730 Sources of stand by liquidity: Unencumbered FFELP loans (7) 5,222 18,731 Total sources of primary and stand by liquidity for general corporate purposes(8) $ 16,557 $ 45,461 (1) The ED Purchase and Participation Programs provide unlimited funding for eligible FFELP Stafford and PLUS loans made by the Company with first disbursements between May 1, 2008 through June 30, 2010. See ED Funding Programs discussed earlier in this section. (2) At December 31, 2008, includes $97 million due from The Reserve Primary Fund (see Counterparty Exposure below). (3) Excludes $26 million and $196 million of investments pledged as collateral related to certain derivative positions and $82 million and $93 million of other non liquid investments classified at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively, as cash and investments on our balance sheet in accordance with GAAP. (4) Includes $1.6 billion and $1.3 billion at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively, of cash collateral pledged by derivative counterparties and held by the Company in unrestricted cash. (5) At December 31, 2008, includes $1.1 billion of cash and liquid investments at Sallie Mae Bank, which Sallie Mae Bank was not authorized to dividend to the Company without FDIC approval. This cash primarily will be used to originate Private Education Loans in the first quarter of 2009. (6) At December 31, 2008, excludes commitments of $308 million from Lehman Brothers Bank, FSB, a subsidiary of Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. declared bankruptcy on September 15, 2008. The Companys line of credit commitments decreased by $1.0 billion effective October 23, 2008. (7) At December 31, 2008, includes $486 million (face amount and accrued interest) of student loans committed to be sold to ED, but not settled until January 2009. Also includes approximately $241 million of unencumbered FFELP student loans qualified to be financed by EDs Participation Program that were subsequently financed under that program. (8) General corporate purposes primarily include originating Private Education Loans and repaying unsecured debt as it matures. 92 Table of Contents In addition to the assets listed in the table above, we hold on balance sheet a number of other unencumbered assets, consisting primarily of Private Education Loans, Retained Interests and other assets. At December 31, 2008, we had a total of $36.1 billion (including assets in the table above) of unencumbered assets, including goodwill and acquired intangibles. Student loans, net, comprised $21.1 billion of this unencumbered asset total. As disclosed, we have extended the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities to mature on April 28, 2009. We believe that we will be successful in our effort to refinance the facility at a lower balance at such time. If we are unable to refinance the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities and if our obligation was settled through the lenders possession of posted collateral we would incur a charge of $8.4 billion, ($5.3 billion after tax) representing the difference between our cost basis in the collateral and current borrowings under the facility as of December 31, 2008. As a result, we would no longer meet the covenants related to our lines of credit and our ability to conduct business could be materially changed. While we would still be able to originate loans into the ED Participation and Purchase program, our ability to originate private credit loans could be limited or curtailed. However, even if we are unsuccessful in this renegotiation, we believe that our current investment portfolio, when combined with our net expected cash inflows (principally from loan repayments) and the ED Conduit Program borrowing we expect to begin using in the first quarter of 2009 will provide sufficient liquidity to meet our short term obligations. Counterparty Exposure As of December 31, 2008, the Company had certain exposures to counterparties impacted by the ongoing credit market dislocation. Counterparty exposure related to financial instruments arises from the risk that a lending, investment or derivative counterparty will not be able to meet its obligations to the Company. Lehman Brothers Bank, FSB, a subsidiary of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., is a party to the Companys unsecured revolving credit facilities under which they provide the Company with a $308 million commitment. Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., declared bankruptcy on September 15, 2008. The Company is operating under the assumption that the lending commitment of Lehman Brothers Bank, FSB, will not be honored if drawn upon. While the Company continues to explore various options, it does not anticipate replacing its commitment from Lehman Brothers Bank, FSB. To provide liquidity for future cash needs, SLM invests in high quality money market investments. At December 31, 2008, the Company had investments of $97 million with The Reserve Primary Fund (The Fund). In September 2008, the Company requested redemption of all monies invested in The Fund prior to The Funds announcement that it suspended distributions as a result of The Funds exposure to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.s bankruptcy filing and The Funds net asset value being below one dollar per share. The Company was originally informed by The Fund that the Company would receive its entire investment amount. Subsequently, the SEC granted The Fund an indefinite extension to pay distributions as The Fund is being liquidated. The Company has received, to date, a total of $394 million of an initial investment of $500 million from The Fund. The Company anticipates further delay of remaining distributions and a potential loss on its investments, even though the Company is legally entitled to receive 100 percent of its remaining investment amount. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded an impairment of $8 million related to our investment in the Fund. Protection against counterparty risk in derivative transactions is generally provided by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) Credit Support Annexes (CSAs). CSAs require a counterparty to post collateral if a potential default would expose the other party to a loss. The Company is a party to derivative contracts for its corporate purposes and also within its securitization trusts. The Company has CSAs and collateral requirements with all of its corporate derivative counterparties requiring collateral to be exchanged based on the net fair value of derivatives with each counterparty above a threshold. Additionally, credit downgrades below a preset level can eliminate this threshold. The Companys securitization trusts require collateral in all cases if the counterpartys credit rating is withdrawn or downgraded below a certain level. If the counterparty does not post the required collateral or is downgraded further, the counterparty must find a suitable replacement counterparty or provide the trust with a letter of credit or a guaranty from an entity 93 Table of Contents that has the required credit ratings. Failure to post the collateral or find a replacement counterparty could result in a termination event under the derivative contract. The Company considers counterparties credit risk when determining the fair value of derivative positions on its exposure net of collateral. Securitizations involving foreign currency notes issued after November 2005 also require the counterparty to post collateral to the trust based on the fair value of the derivative regardless of credit rating. The trusts are not required to post collateral to the counterparties. If we were unable to collect from a counterparty related to SLM Corporation and on balance sheet trust derivatives, we would have a loss equal to the amount the derivative is recorded on our balance sheet. If we were unable to collect from a counterparty related to an off balance sheet trust derivative, the value of our Residual Interest on our balance sheet would be reduced through earnings. The Company has liquidity exposure related to collateral movements between SLM Corporation and its derivative counterparties. The collateral movements can increase or decrease our primary liquidity depending on the nature of the collateral (whether cash or securities), and on movements in the value of the derivatives, which are primarily impacted by changes in interest rate and foreign exchange rates. These movements may require the Company to return cash collateral posted or may require the Company to access primary liquidity to post collateral to counterparties. Additionally, when securities are posted as collateral to the Company, the Company generally has the right to re pledge or sell the security. As of December 31, 2008, the Company held $1.6 billion of cash collateral in unrestricted cash accounts. The table below highlights exposure related to our derivative counterparties at December 31, 2008. On Balance Sheet Off Balance Sheet SLM Corporation Securitizations Securitizations Contracts Contracts Contracts Exposure, net of collateral $ 234 $ 926 $ 716 Percent of exposure to counterparties with credit ratings below SP AA or Moodys Aa3 60 % 42 % 42 % Percent of exposure to counterparties with credit ratings below SP A or Moodys A3 0 % 0 % 0 % 94 Table of Contents Managed Borrowings The following tables present the ending and average balances and average interest rates of our Managed borrowings for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. The average interest rates include derivatives that are economically hedging the underlying debt but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133. (See BUSINESS SEGMENTS Limitations of Core Earnings Pre tax Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP by Business Segment Derivative Accounting Reclassification of Realized Gains (Losses) on Derivative and Hedging Activities.) Ending Balances Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Ending Balance Ending Balance Ending Balance Total Total Total Short Long Managed Short Long Managed Short Long Managed Term Term Basis Term Term Basis Term Term Basis Unsecured borrowings $ 6,794 $ 31,182 $ 37,976 $ 8,297 $ 36,796 $ 45,093 $ 3,187 $ 45,501 $ 48,688 Term bank deposits 1,148 1,108 2,256 254 254 Indentured trusts (on balance sheet)(1) 31 1,972 2,003 100 2,481 2,581 93 2,852 2,945 ABCP borrowings (on balance sheet)(1)(2) 24,768 24,768 25,960 67 26,027 4,953 4,953 ED Participation Program facility (on balance sheet)(1)(3) 7,365 7,365 Securitizations (on balance sheet)(1) 80,601 80,601 68,048 68,048 50,147 50,147 Securitizations (off balance sheet) 37,159 37,159 42,088 42,088 49,865 49,865 Other 1,827 1,827 1,342 1,342 248 248 Total $ 41,933 $ 152,022 $ 193,955 $ 35,953 $ 149,480 $ 185,433 $ 3,528 $ 153,318 $ 156,846 (1) The book basis of the assets that secure the on balance sheet secured financings is approximately $128.8 billion in total at December 31, 2008. (2) Includes $1.9 billion outstanding in the 2008 Asset Backed Loan Facility at December 31, 2008. (3) The Company has the option of paying off this amount with cash or by putting the loans to ED as previously discussed. Average Balances Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Average Average Average Average Average Average Balance Rate Balance Rate Balance Rate Unsecured borrowings $ 39,794 3.65 % $ 46,095 5.58 % $ 43,754 5.50 % Term bank deposits 854 4.07 166 5.26 1 4.98 Indentured trusts (on balance sheet) 2,363 3.90 2,768 4.90 3,252 4.57 ABCP borrowings (on balance sheet)(1) 24,855 5.27 13,938 5.85 4,874 5.36 ED Participation Program facility (on balance sheet) 1,727 3.43 Securitizations (on balance sheet) 76,028 3.26 62,765 5.55 43,310 5.40 Securitizations (off balance sheet) 39,625 3.11 45,733 5.68 50,112 5.49 Other 2,063 2.35 637 4.85 172 5.03 Total $ 187,309 3.58 % $ 172,102 5.60 % $ 145,475 5.44 % (1) Includes the 2008 Asset Backed Loan Facility. 95 Table of Contents Unsecured On Balance Sheet Financing Activities The following table presents the senior unsecured credit ratings assigned by major rating agencies as of February 27, 2009. Moodys SP Fitch Short term unsecured debt P 2(1) A 3 F3 Long term senior unsecured debt Baa2(1) BBB BBB (1) Under review for potential downgrade. The table below presents our unsecured on balance sheet funding by funding source for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. Debt Issued For The Years Outstanding at Ended December 31, December 31, 2008 2007 2008 2007 Convertible debentures $ $ $ $ Retail notes 59 3,914 4,192 Foreign currency denominated notes(1) 161 12,127 12,805 Extendible notes 1,464 5,749 Global notes (Institutional) 2,437 1,348 19,874 21,750 Medium term notes (Institutional) 597 597 Total unsecured corporate borrowings 2,437 1,568 37,976 45,093 Term bank deposits 2,845 552 2,256 254 Total $ 5,282 $ 2,120 $ 40,232 $ 45,347 (1) All foreign currency denominated notes are hedged using derivatives that exchange the foreign denomination for U.S. dollars. 96 Table of Contents Securitization Activities Securitization Program The following table summarizes our securitization activity for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Those securitizations listed as sales are off balance sheet transactions and those listed as financings remain on balance sheet. Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Loan Loan Loan No. of Amount Pre Tax Gain No. of Amount Pre Tax Gain No. of Amount Pre Tax Gain Transactions Securitized Gain % Transactions Securitized Gain % Transactions Securitized Gain % Securitizations sales: FFELP Stafford/PLUS loans $ $ % $ $ % 2 $ 5,004 $ 17 .3 % FFELP Consolidation Loans 4 9,503 55 .6 Private Education Loans 1 2,001 367 18.4 3 5,088 830 16.3 Total securitizations sales $ % 1 2,001 $ 367 18.4 % 9 19,595 $ 902 4.6 % Securitizations financings: FFELP Stafford/PLUS loans(1) 9 18,546 3 8,955 FFELP Consolidation Loans(1) 5 14,476 4 12,506 Total securitizations financings 9 18,546 8 23,431 4 12,506 Total securitizations 9 $ 18,546 9 $ 25,432 13 $ 32,101 (1) In certain securitizations there are terms within the deal structure that result in such securitizations not qualifying for sale treatment and accordingly, they are accounted for on balance sheet as variable interest entities (VIEs). Terms that prevent sale treatment include: (1) allowing the Company to hold certain rights that can affect the remarketing of certain bonds, (2) allowing the trust to enter into interest rate cap agreements after initial settlement of the securitization, which do not relate to the reissuance of third party beneficial interests or (3) allowing the Company to hold an unconditional call option related to a certain percentage of the securitized assets. 97 Table of Contents Residual Interest in Securitized Receivables The following tables summarize the fair value of our Residual Interests and the assumptions used to value such Residual Interests, along with the underlying off balance sheet student loans that relate to those securitizations in securitization transactions that were treated as sales as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. As of December 31, 2008 FFELP Consolidation Private Stafford and Loan Education PLUS Trusts(1) Loan Trusts Total Fair value of Residual Interests(2) $ 250 $ 918 $ 1,032 $ 2,200 Underlying securitized loan balance 7,057 15,077 13,690 35,824 Weighted average life 3.0 yrs. 8.1 yrs. 6.4 yrs Prepayment speed (annual rate)(3) Interim status 0 % N/A 0 % Repayment status 2 19 % 1 6 % 2 15 % Life of loan repayment status 12 % 4 % 6 % Expected credit losses (% of student loan principal)(4) .11 % .23 % 5.22 % Residual cash flows discount rate 13.1 % 11.9 % 26.3 % As of December 31, 2007 Consolidation Private FFELP Loan Education Stafford and PLUS Trusts(1) Loan Trusts Total Fair value of Residual Interests(2) $ 390 $ 730 $ 1,924 $ 3,044 Underlying securitized loan balance 9,338 15,968 14,199 39,505 Weighted average life 2.7 yrs. 7.4 yrs. 7.0 yrs Prepayment speed (annual rate)(3) Interim status 0 % N/A 0 % Repayment status 0 37 % 3 8 % 1 30 % Life of loan repayment status 21 % 6 % 9 % Expected credit losses (% of student loan principal)(4) .11 % .21 % 5.28 % Residual cash flows discount rate 12.0 % 9.8 % 12.9 % (1) Includes $762 million and $283 million related to the fair value of the Embedded Floor Income as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Changes in the fair value of the Embedded Floor Income are primarily due to changes in the interest rates and the pay down of the underlying loans. (2) At December 31, 2007, we had unrealized gains (pre tax) in accumulated other comprehensive income of $301 million that related to the Residual Interests. There were no such gains at December 31, 2008. (3) The Company uses CPR curves for Residual Interest valuations that are based on seasoning (the number of months since entering repayment). Under this methodology, a different CPR is applied to each year of a loans seasoning. Repayment status CPR used is based on the number of months since first entering repayment (seasoning). Life of loan CPR is related to repayment status only and does not include the impact of the loan while in interim status. The CPR assumption used for all periods includes the impact of projected defaults. (4) Remaining expected credit losses as of the respective balance sheet date. 98 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Net Assets The following table summarizes our off balance sheet net assets at December 31, 2008 and 2007 on a basis equivalent to our GAAP on balance sheet trusts, which presents the assets and liabilities in the off balance sheet trusts as if they were being accounted for on balance sheet rather than off balance sheet. This presentation, therefore, includes a theoretical calculation of the premiums on student loans, the allowance for loan losses, and the discounts and deferred financing costs on the debt. This presentation is not, nor is it intended to be, a liquidation basis of accounting. (See also LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT Summary of our Managed Student Loan Portfolio Ending Managed Student Loan Balances, net and LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Managed Borrowings Ending Balances, earlier in this section.) December 31, December 31, 2008 2007 Off Balance Sheet Assets: Total student loans, net $ 35,591 $ 39,423 Restricted cash and investments 1,557 2,706 Accrued interest receivable 937 1,413 Total off balance sheet assets 38,085 43,542 Off Balance Sheet Liabilities: Debt, par value 37,228 42,192 Debt, unamortized discount and deferred issuance costs (69 ) (104 ) Total debt 37,159 42,088 Accrued interest payable 166 305 Total off balance sheet liabilities 37,325 42,393 Off Balance Sheet Net Assets $ 760 $ 1,149 Servicing and Securitization Revenue Servicing and securitization revenue, the ongoing revenue from securitized loan pools accounted for off balance sheet as QSPEs, includes the interest earned on the Residual Interest and the revenue we receive for servicing the loans in the securitization trusts. 99 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the components of servicing and securitization revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Servicing revenue $ 247 $ 285 $ 336 Securitization revenue, before Net Embedded Floor Income, impairment and unrealized fair value adjustment 323 419 368 Servicing and securitization revenue, before Net Embedded Floor Income, impairment and unrealized fair value adjustment 570 704 704 Embedded Floor Income 191 20 14 Less: Floor Income previously recognized in gain calculation (76 ) (9 ) (8 ) Net Embedded Floor Income 115 11 6 Servicing and securitization revenue, before impairment and unrealized fair value adjustment 685 715 710 Gain/(loss) on consolidation of off balance sheet trusts 2 Unrealized fair value adjustment (425 ) (24 ) Retained Interest impairment (254 ) (157 ) Total servicing and securitization revenue $ 262 $ 437 $ 553 Average off balance sheet student loans $ 37,586 $ 42,411 $ 46,336 Average balance of Retained Interest $ 2,596 $ 3,385 $ 3,101 Servicing and securitization revenue as a percentage of the average balance of off balance sheet student loans .70 % 1.03 % 1.19 % Servicing and securitization revenue is primarily driven by the average balance of off balance sheet student loans, the amount of and the difference in the timing of Embedded Floor Income recognition on off balance sheet student loans and the fair value adjustment related to those Residual Interests where the Company has elected to carry such Residual Interests at fair value through earnings under SFAS No. 159. The Company adopted SFAS No. 159 on January 1, 2008, and has elected the fair value option on all of the Residual Interests effective January 1, 2008. The Company chose this election in order to record all Residual Interests under one accounting model. Prior to this election, Residual Interests were accounted for either under SFAS No. 115 with changes in fair value recorded through other comprehensive income, except if impaired in which case changes in fair value were recorded through income, or under SFAS No. 155 with all changes in fair value recorded through income. Changes in the fair value of Residual Interests from January 1, 2008 forward are recorded in the servicing and securitization revenue line item of the consolidated income statement. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had changed the following significant assumptions compared to those used as of December 31, 2007, to determine the fair value of the Residual Interests: Prepayment speed assumptions were decreased for all three asset types primarily as a result of a significant reduction in prepayment activity experienced which is expected to continue into the foreseeable future. The decrease in prepayment speeds is primarily due to a reduction in third party consolidation activity as a result of the CCRAA (for FFELP only) and the current U.S. economic and credit environment. This resulted in a $114 million unrealized mark to market gain. Life of loan default rate assumptions for Private Education loans were increased as a result of the continued weakening of the U.S. economy. This resulted in a $79 million unrealized mark to market loss. 100 Table of Contents Cost of funds assumptions related to the underlying auction rate securities bonds ($2.3 billion face amount of bonds) within FFELP loan ($1.7 billion face amount of bonds) and Private Education Loan ($0.6 billion face amount of bonds) trusts were increased to take into account the expectations these auction rate securities will continue to reset at higher rates for an extended period of time. This resulted in a $116 million unrealized mark to market loss. The discount rate assumption related to the Private Education Loan and FFELP Residual Interests was increased. The Company assessed the appropriateness of the current risk premium, which is added to the risk free rate for the purpose of arriving at a discount rate, in light of the current economic and credit uncertainty that exists in the market as of December 31, 2008. This discount rate is applied to the projected cash flows to arrive at a fair value representative of the current economic conditions. The Company increased the risk premium by 1,550 basis points and 390 basis points for Private Education and FFELP, respectively, to take into account the current level of cash flow uncertainty and lack of liquidity that exists with the Residual Interests. This resulted in a $904 million unrealized mark to market loss. The Company recorded net unrealized mark to market losses related to the Residual Interests of $425 million during the year ended December 31, 2008. The mark to market losses were primarily related to the increase in the discount rate assumptions discussed above which resulted in a $904 million mark to market loss. This was partially offset by an unrealized mark to market gain of $555 million related to the Floor Income component of the Residual Interest primarily due to the significant decrease in interest rates from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008. The Company recorded impairments to the Retained Interests of $254 million and $157 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. The impairment charges were the result of FFELP loans prepaying faster than projected through loan consolidations ($110 million and $104 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively), impairment to the Floor Income component of the Companys Retained Interest due to increases in interest rates during the period ($24 million and $53 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively), and increases in prepayments, defaults, and the discount rate related to Private Education Loans ($120 million for the year ended December 31, 2007). In addition, the Company recorded an unrealized mark to market loss under SFAS No. 155 of $25 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. CONTRACTUAL CASH OBLIGATIONS The following table provides a summary of our obligations associated with long term notes at December 31, 2008. For further discussion of these obligations, see Note 7, Borrowings, to the consolidated financial statements. The Company has no outstanding equity forward positions outstanding after the contract settlement on January 9, 2008. See Note 11, Stockholders Equity, to the consolidated financial statements. 1 Year 2 to 3 4 to 5 Over or Less Years Years 5 Years Total Long term notes: Unsecured borrowings $ $ 14,184 $ 5,324 $ 11,674 $ 31,182 Term bank deposits 727 381 1,108 Secured borrowings(1) 6,722 14,390 13,262 48,199 82,573 Total contractual cash obligations(2) $ 6,722 $ 29,301 $ 18,967 $ 59,873 $ 114,863 (1) Includes Financial Interpretation (FIN) No. 46(R) long term beneficial interests of $80.6 billion of notes issued by consolidated variable interest entities in conjunction with our on balance sheet securitization transactions and included in long term notes in the consolidated balance sheet. Timing of obligations is estimated based on the Companys current projection of prepayment speeds of the securitized assets. (2) Only includes principal obligations and specifically excludes SFAS No. 133 derivative market value adjustments of $3.4 billion for long term notes. Interest obligations on notes is predominantly variable in nature, resetting quarterly based on 3 month LIBOR. 101 Table of Contents The Company also records unrecognized tax benefits in accordance with FIN No. 48. Unrecognized tax benefits were $81 million and $176 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. For additional information, see Note 19, Income Taxes, to the consolidated financial statements. OFF BALANCE SHEET LENDING ARRANGEMENTS The following table summarizes the contractual amounts related to off balance sheet lending related financial instruments at December 31, 2008. 1 Year 2 to 3 or Less Years Total Lines of credit $ 221 $ 800 $ 1,021 We have issued lending related financial instruments including lines of credit to meet the financing needs of our institutional customers. In connection with these agreements, the Company also enters into a participation agreement with the institution to participate in the loans as they are originated. In the event that a line of credit is drawn upon, the loan is collateralized by underlying student loans and is usually participated on the same day. The contractual amount of these financial instruments represents the maximum possible credit risk should the counterparty draw down the commitment, the Company does not participate in the loan, and the counterparty subsequently fails to perform according to the terms of our contract. The remaining total contractual amount available to be borrowed under these commitments is $1.0 billion. We do not believe that these instruments are representative of our actual future credit exposure. To the extent that the lines of credit are drawn upon, the balance outstanding is collateralized by student loans. At December 31, 2008, outstanding draws on lines of credit were approximately $9 million, and are reflected in other loans in the consolidated balance sheet. For additional information, see Note 17, Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements. The Company maintains forward contracts to purchase loans from our lending partners at contractual prices. These contracts typically have a maximum amount we are committed to buy, but lack a fixed or determinable amount as it ultimately is based on the lending partners origination activity. FFELP forward purchase contracts typically contain language relieving us of most of our responsibilities under the contract due to, among other things, changes in student loan legislation. These commitments are not accounted for as derivatives under SFAS No. 133 as they do not meet the definition of a derivative due to the lack of a fixed and determinable purchase amount. At December 31, 2008, there were $2.3 billion originated loans (FFELP and Private Education Loans) in the pipeline that the Company is committed to purchase. MANAGEMENT OF RISKS Significant risks that affect the Company may be grouped in the following categories: financial and funding, credit, operations, legislation and regulation, and market competition. These risks are discussed in the Item 1A. Risk Factors section of this document. Managements strategies for managing some of these risks are discussed below. Risk Management Processes Risk management is a shared responsibility throughout the Company. The Board of Directors and its committees oversee risk and risk management practices. Executive management is responsible for monitoring and assessing risks. Managers of individual lines of business have direct and primary responsibility and accountability to manage risks specific in their operations by identifying and assessing risks, implementing internal controls and reporting control issues to the Companys Risk Assessment Department. The Risk Assessment Department monitors these efforts, identifies areas that require increased focus and resources, and reports significant control issues to executive management and the Audit Committee of the Board. The Companys centralized staff functions, such as accounting, human resources and legal, further strengthen our risk controls. 102 Table of Contents At least annually, the Risk Assessment Department conducts a survey to identify the Companys top risks, which supports the development of the internal audit plan. The survey solicits information from over 200 managers and seeks their input on issues such as entity level controls, compliance with laws and regulations, anti fraud programs and the internal audit plan. Identified risks are rated on significance and the likelihood of occurrence. Risks with the greatest significance and highest likelihood of occurrence receive the most attention and resources from management. Top risks are mapped to the appropriate management committee for problem resolution and to the appropriate committee of the Board for oversight. Management risk committees and their primary responsibility are as follows: Credit Committee: establishes and enforces credit lending policies; Compliance Committee: advises on and reviews regulatory compliance; Asset/Liability Committee: manages market, interest rate and balance sheet risk; Disclosure Committee: manages risk of compliance with SEC disclosure obligations; Critical Accounting Assumptions Committee: reviews key critical accounting assumptions, judgments and estimates; manages risk of compliance with financial reporting requirements; Information Technology Steering Committee: manages security and confidentially of information and effectiveness of IT infrastructure; Business Continuity Steering Committee: manages risk of emergency loss of IT and other infrastructure resources; Internal Controls Excellence Steering Committee: monitors internal controls and compliance with the Sarbanes Oxley Act; New Product Advisory Committee: approves new loan products and services. The formal risk management process represents only one portion of our overall risk management framework. Our Code of Business Conduct and the on going training our employees receive in many compliance areas provide a framework for employees to conduct themselves with the highest integrity. We instill a risk conscious culture through communications, training, policies and procedures and organizational roles and responsibilities. We have strengthened the linkage between the management performance process and individual compensation to encourage employees to work toward corporate wide compliance goals. Liquidity Risk Management Liquidity is the ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, fund asset growth and business operations, and meet contractual obligations at reasonable market rates. Liquidity management involves forecasting funding requirements and maintaining sufficient capacity to meet the needs and accommodate fluctuations in asset and liability levels due to changes in our business operations or unanticipated events. Sources of liquidity include wholesale market based funding and deposits at Sallie Mae Bank. Through the Companys Asset and Liability Management Policy, the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for establishing our liquidity policy and monitoring liquidity on an ongoing basis. The Corporate Finance Department is responsible for planning and executing our funding activities and strategy. In order to ensure adequate liquidity through the full range of potential operating environments and market conditions, we conduct our liquidity management and business activities in a manner that will preserve and enhance funding stability, flexibility and diversity. Key components of this operating strategy include maintaining direct relationships with wholesale market funding providers and maintaining the ability to liquefy certain assets when, and if, requirements warrant. For a further discussion of our liquidity and capital resources and the sources and uses of liquidity see the LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES section of this Form 10 K. 103 Table of Contents Credit Risk Management We bear the full risk of loss on our Private Education Loan portfolio. These loans are underwritten and priced according to risk, generally determined by a consumer credit scoring system, FICO. Because our borrowers often have limited repayment history on other loan products and the addition of our loans increases the debt burden of our borrowers, the origination of our loans generally results in an initial decrease in borrowers FICO scores. After this initial decrease, borrowers FICO scores generally improve over time as the financial positions of our borrowers become more established and their repayment history on all loans becomes more seasoned. Additionally, for borrowers who do not meet our lending requirements or who desire more favorable terms, we generally require credit worthy cosigners. We have defined underwriting and collection policies, and ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for all Private Education Loans. Potential credit losses are considered in our risk based pricing model. The performance of the Private Education Loan portfolio may be affected by borrowers who fail to complete their education and by the economy; a prolonged economic downturn may have an adverse effect on our credit performance. This is taken into account when establishing allowances to cover the incurred losses. We have credit risk exposure to the various counterparties with whom we have entered into derivative contracts. We review the credit standing of these companies. Our credit policies place limits on the amount of exposure we may take with any one party and in most cases, require collateral to secure the position. The credit risk associated with derivatives is measured based on the replacement cost should the counterparties with contracts in a gain position to the Company fail to perform under the terms of the contract. Credit risk in our investment portfolio is minimized by only investing in paper with highly rated issuers. Additionally, limits per issuer are determined by our internal credit and investment guidelines to limit our exposure to any one issuer. We also have credit risk with several higher education institutions related to academic facilities loans secured by real estate. Market and Interest Rate Risk Management We measure interest rate risk by calculating the variability of net interest income in future periods under various interest rate scenarios using projected balances for interest earning assets, interest bearing liabilities and derivatives used to hedge interest rate risk. Many assumptions are utilized by management to calculate the impact that changes in interest rates may have on net interest income, the more significant of which are related to student loan volumes and pricing, the timing of cash flows from our student loan portfolio, particularly the impact of Floor Income and the rate of student loan consolidations, basis risk, credit spreads and the maturity of our debt and derivatives. Asset and Liability Funding Gap The tables below present our assets and liabilities (funding) arranged by underlying indices as of December 31, 2008. In the following GAAP presentation, the funding gap only includes derivatives that qualify as effective SFAS No. 133 hedges (those derivatives which are reflected in net interest margin, as opposed to those reflected in the gains/(losses) on derivatives and hedging activities, net line on the income statement). The difference between the asset and the funding is the funding gap for the specified index. This represents our exposure to interest rate risk in the form of basis risk and repricing risk, which is the risk that the different indices may reset at different frequencies or may not move in the same direction or at the same magnitude. 104 Table of Contents Management analyzes interest rate risk on a Managed basis, which consists of both on balance sheet and off balance sheet assets and liabilities and includes all derivatives that are economically hedging our debt whether they qualify as effective hedges under SFAS No. 133 or not. Accordingly, we are also presenting the asset and liability funding gap on a Managed basis in the table that follows the GAAP presentation. GAAP Basis Frequency of Index Variable Funding (Dollars in billions) Resets Assets Funding(1) Gap 3 month Commercial paper(2) daily $ 114.7 $ 7.4 $ 107.3 3 month Treasury bill weekly 7.2 .1 7.1 Prime annual .5 .5 Prime quarterly 1.5 1.5 Prime monthly 17.5 17.5 PLUS Index annual .5 .5 3 month LIBOR daily 3 month LIBOR quarterly .1 109.8 (109.7 ) 1 month LIBOR(3) monthly 2.3 2.0 .3 CMT/CPI index monthly/quarterly 3.1 (3.1 ) Non Discrete reset(4) monthly 25.3 (25.3 ) Non Discrete reset(5) daily/weekly 8.5 2.1 6.4 Fixed Rate(6) 16.0 19.0 (3.0 ) Total $ 168.8 $ 168.8 $ (1) Funding includes all derivatives that qualify as hedges under SFAS No. 133. (2) Funding includes $7.4 billion of ED Purchase and Participation Program. (3) Funding includes the 2008 Asset Backed Loan Facility. (4) Funding includes auction rate securities and the 2008 ABCP Facilities. (5) Assets include restricted and non restricted cash equivalents and other overnight type instruments. (6) Assets include receivables and other assets (including Retained Interests, goodwill and acquired intangibles). Funding includes other liabilities and stockholders equity (excluding Series B Preferred Stock). The Funding Gaps in the above table are primarily interest rate mismatches in short term indices between our assets and liabilities. We address this issue typically through the use of basis swaps that typically convert quarterly three month LIBOR to other indices that are more correlated to our asset indices. These basis swaps do not qualify as effective hedges under SFAS No. 133 and as a result the effect on the funding index is not included in our interest margin and is therefore excluded from the GAAP presentation. 105 Table of Contents Managed Basis Frequency of Index Variable Funding (Dollars in billions) Resets Assets Funding(1) Gap 3 month Commercial paper(2) daily $ 134.7 $ 7.5 $ 127.2 3 month Treasury bill weekly 9.8 6.7 3.1 Prime annual 1.0 .3 .7 Prime quarterly 6.6 3.5 3.1 Prime monthly 25.0 15.3 9.7 PLUS Index annual .6 .1 .5 3 month LIBOR(3) daily 116.1 (116.1 ) 3 month LIBOR quarterly 11.8 (11.8 ) 1 month LIBOR(4) monthly 2.3 2.0 .3 Non Discrete reset(5) monthly 22.0 (22.0 ) Non Discrete reset(6) daily/weekly 10.1 1.6 8.5 Fixed Rate(7) 12.4 15.6 (3.2 ) Total $ 202.5 $ 202.5 $ (1) Funding includes all derivatives that management considers economic hedges of interest rate risk and reflects how we internally manage our interest rate exposure. (2) Funding includes $7.4 billion of ED Purchase and Participation Program. (3) Funding includes $2.5 billion of auction rate securities. (4) Funding includes the 2008 Asset Backed Loan Facility. (5) Funding includes auction rate securities and the 2008 ABCP Facility. (6) Assets include restricted and non restricted cash equivalents and other overnight type instruments. (7) Assets include receivables and other assets (including goodwill and acquired intangibles). Funding includes other liabilities and stockholders equity (excluding Series B Preferred Stock). We use interest rate swaps and other derivatives to achieve our risk management objectives. To the extent possible, we fund our assets with debt (in combination with derivatives) that has the same underlying index (index type and index reset frequency). When it is more economical, we also fund our assets with debt that has a different index and or reset frequency than the asset, but only in instances where we believe there is a high degree of correlation between the interest rate movement of the two indices. For example, we use daily reset three month LIBOR to fund a large portion of our daily reset three month commercial paper indexed assets. In addition, we use quarterly reset three month LIBOR to fund a portion of our quarterly reset Prime rate indexed Private Education Loans. We also use our monthly Non Discrete reset and 1 month LIBOR funding to fund various asset types. In using different index types and different index reset frequencies to fund our assets, we are exposed to interest rate risk in the form of basis risk and repricing risk, which is the risk that the different indices that may reset at different frequencies will not move in the same direction or at the same magnitude. While we believe that this risk is low as all of these indices are short term with rate movements that are highly correlated over a long period of time, market disruptions can lead to a temporary divergence between indices as was experienced with the commercial paper and LIBOR indices beginning in the second half of 2007 and becoming more volatile in the second half of 2008. As of December 31, 2008, on a Managed Basis, we have approximately $127.2 billion of FFELP loans indexed to three month commercial paper (3M CP) that are funded with debt indexed to LIBOR. We believe there is broad market recognition that, due to the unintended consequences of government action in other areas of the capital markets and virtually no issuances of qualifying commercial paper, the 3M CP index and its relationship to LIBOR is broken. The relationship between the indices has been volatile. See Item 1. Business, for a discussion of this CP/LIBOR issue and government actions to date. 106 Table of Contents When compared with the GAAP presentation, the Managed basis presentation includes all of our off balance sheet assets and funding, and also includes basis swaps that primarily convert quarterly three month LIBOR to other indices that are more correlated to our asset indices. Weighted Average Life The following table reflects the weighted average life for our Managed earning assets and liabilities at December 31, 2008 and 2007. December 31, December 31, 2008 2007 On Balance On Balance (Averages in Years) Sheet Managed Sheet Managed Earning assets Student loans 7.8 7.9 9.0 8.9 Other loans 5.7 5.7 5.0 5.0 Cash and investments .2 .1 .2 .2 Total earning assets 7.4 7.5 8.0 8.0 Borrowings Short term borrowings .3 .3 .2 .2 Long term borrowings 6.8 6.7 6.6 6.4 Total borrowings 5.0 5.3 5.0 5.2 Long term debt issuances likely to be called by us or putable by the investor have been categorized according to their call or put dates rather than their maturity dates. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Exposure Foreign currency exchange rate exposure is primarily the result of foreign denominated liabilities issued by the Company. Cross currency interest rate swaps are used to lock in the exchange rate for the term of the liability. In addition, the Company has foreign exchange rate exposure as a result of international operations; however, the exposure is minimal at this time. 107 Table of Contents COMMON STOCK The following table summarizes the Companys common share repurchases and issuances for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Equity forward activity for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 is also reported. Years Ended December 31, (Shares in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Common shares repurchased: Open market 1.8 2.2 Equity forward contracts 4.2 5.4 Equity forward contracts agreed to be settled(1) 44.0 Benefit plans(2) 1.0 3.3 1.6 Total shares repurchased 1.0 53.3 9.2 Average purchase price per share $ 24.51 $ 44.59 $ 52.41 Common shares issued 1.9 109.2 6.7 Equity forward contracts: Outstanding at beginning of period 48.2 42.7 New contracts 10.9 Settlements (4.2 ) (5.4 ) Agreed to be settled(1) (44.0 ) Outstanding at end of period 48.2 Authority remaining at end of period for repurchases 38.8 38.8 15.7 (1) On December 31, 2007, the Company and Citibank agreed to physically settle the contract as detailed below. Consequently, the common shares outstanding and shareholders equity on the Companys year end balance sheet reflect the physical settlement of the equity forward contract. As of December 31, 2007, the 44 million shares under this equity forward contract are reflected in treasury stock. (2) Shares withheld from stock option exercises and vesting of restricted stock for employees tax withholding obligations and shares tendered by employees to satisfy option exercise costs. Beginning on November 29, 2007, the Company amended or closed out certain equity forward contracts. On December 19, 2007, the Company entered into a series of transactions with its equity forward counterparties and Citibank to assign all of its remaining equity forward contracts, covering 44,039,890 shares, to Citibank. In connection with the assignment of the equity forward contracts, the Company and Citibank amended the terms of the equity forward contract to eliminate all stock price triggers (which had previously allowed the counterparty to terminate the contracts prior to their scheduled maturity date) and termination events based on the Companys credit ratings. The strike price of the equity forward contract on December 19, 2007, was $45.25 with a maturity date of February 22, 2008. The new Citibank equity forward contract was 100 percent collateralized with cash. On December 31, 2007, the Company and Citibank agreed to physically settle the contract and the Company paid Citibank approximately $1.1 billion, the difference between the contract purchase price and the previous market closing price on the 44,039,890 shares. Consequently, the common shares outstanding and shareholders equity on the Companys year end balance sheet reflect the shares issued in the public offerings and the physical settlement of the equity forward contract. As of December 31, 2007, the 44 million shares under this equity forward contract are reflected in treasury stock. The Company paid Citibank the remaining balance of approximately $0.9 billion due under the contract on January 9, 2008. The Company now has no outstanding equity forward positions. On December 31, 2007, the Company issued 101,781,170 shares of its common stock at a price of $19.65 per share. Net proceeds from the sale were approximately $1.9 billion. The Company used approximately $2.0 billion of the net proceeds from the sale of Series C Preferred Stock and the sale of its common stock to 108 Table of Contents settle its outstanding equity forward contract (see Note 11, Stockholders Equity, for further discussion). The remaining proceeds are used for general corporate purposes. The Company issued 9,781,170 shares of the 102 million share offering from its treasury stock. These shares were removed from treasury stock at an average cost of $43.13, resulting in a $422 million decrease to the balance of treasury stock with an offsetting $235 million decrease to retained earnings. The closing price of the Companys common stock on December 31, 2008 was $8.90. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, Significant Accounting Policies Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements. 109 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis The Companys interest rate risk management seeks to limit the impact of short term movements in interest rates on our results of operations and financial position. The following tables summarize the effect on earnings for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 and the effect on fair values at December 31, 2008 and 2007, based upon a sensitivity analysis performed by management assuming a hypothetical increase in market interest rates of 100 basis points and 300 basis points while funding spreads remain constant. Additionally, as it relates to the effect on earnings, a sensitivity analysis was performed assuming the funding index increases 25 basis points while holding the asset index constant, if the funding index is different that the asset index. Both of these analyses do not consider any potential impairment to our Residual Interests that may result from asset and funding basis divergence or a higher discount rate that would be used to compute the present value of the cash flows if long term interest rates increased. See Note 8, Student Loan Securitization, which details the potential decrease to the fair value of the Residual Interest that could occur under the referenced interest rate environment. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Asset Interest Rates: and Funding Change from Change from Index Increase of Increase of Mismatches(1) 100 Basis 300 Basis Increase of Points Points 25 Basis Points (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) $ % $ % $ % Effect on Earnings Increase/(decrease) in pre tax net income before unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities $ (6 ) (3 )% $ 13 7 % $ (297 ) (162 )% Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities 460 82 956 171 95 17 Increase in net income before taxes $ 454 121 % $ 969 258 % $ (202 ) (54 )% Increase in diluted earnings per common share $ .974 141 % $ 2.076 301 % $ (.433 ) (63 )% Year Ended December 31, 2007 Interest Rates: Asset Change from Change from and Funding Increase of Increase of Index Mismatches(1) 100 Basis 300 Basis Increase of Points Points 25 Basis Points (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) $ % $ % $ % Effect on Earnings Increase/(decrease) in pre tax net income before unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities $ 11 1 % $ 32 4 % $ (229 ) (27 )% Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities 213 16 375 28 80 6 Increase in net income before taxes $ 224 46 % $ 407 85 % $ (149 ) (31 )% Increase in diluted earnings per common share $ .361 16 % $ .674 30 % $ (.361 ) (16 )% (1) If an asset is not funded with the same index/frequency reset of the asset then it is assumed the funding index increases 25 basis points while holding the asset index constant. 110 Table of Contents At December 31, 2008 Interest Rates: Change from Change from Increase of Increase of 100 Basis 300 Basis Points Points (Dollars in millions) Fair Value $ % $ % Effect on Fair Values Assets Total FFELP student loans $ 107,319 $ (758 ) (1 )% $ (1,602 ) (1 )% Private Education Loans 14,141 Other earning assets 9,265 (9 ) (25 ) Other assets 14,590 (848 ) (6 ) (2,108 ) (14 ) Total assets $ 145,315 $ (1,615 ) (1 )% $ (3,735 ) (3 )% Liabilities Interest bearing liabilities $ 135,070 $ (837 ) (1 )% $ (2,500 ) (2 )% Other liabilities 3,604 (293 ) (8 ) (273 ) (8 ) Total liabilities $ 138,674 $ (1,130 ) (1 )% $ (2,773 ) (2 )% At December 31, 2007 Interest Rates: Change from Change from Increase of Increase of 100 Basis 300 Basis Points Points (Dollars in millions) Fair Value $ % $ % Effect on Fair Values Assets Total FFELP student loans $ 111,552 $ (303 ) % $ (603 ) (1 )% Private Education Loans 17,289 Other earning assets 16,321 (20 ) (59 ) Other assets 15,092 (887 ) (6 ) (1,566 ) (10 ) Total assets $ 160,254 $ (1,210 ) (1 )% $ (2,228 ) (1 )% Liabilities Interest bearing liabilities $ 141,055 $ (1,424 ) (1 )% $ (3,330 ) (2 )% Other liabilities 3,285 392 12 1,471 45 Total liabilities $ 144,340 $ (1,032 ) (1 )% $ (1,859 ) (1 )% A primary objective in our funding is to minimize our sensitivity to changing interest rates by generally funding our floating rate student loan portfolio with floating rate debt. However, as discussed under LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT Summary of our Managed Student Loan Portfolio Floor Income Managed Basis, we can have a fixed versus floating mismatch in funding if the student loan earns at the fixed borrower rate and the funding remains floating. In addition, we can have a mismatch in the index of floating rate debt versus floating rate assets. During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, certain FFELP student loans were earning Floor Income and we locked in a portion of that Floor Income through the use of interest rate swaps and Floor Income Contracts. The result of these hedging transactions was to convert a portion of the fixed rate nature of student loans to variable rate, and to fix the relative spread between the student loan asset rate and the variable rate liability. 111 Table of Contents In the above table, under the scenario where interest rates increase 100 and 300 basis points, the change in pre tax net income before the unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities is primarily due to the impact of (i) our off balance sheet hedged FFELP Consolidation Loan securitizations and the related Embedded Floor Income recognized as part of the gain on sale, which results in a decrease in payments on the written Floor contracts that more than offset impairment losses on the Embedded Floor Income in the Residual Interest; (ii) in low interest rate environments, our unhedged on balance sheet loans being in a fixed rate mode due to Embedded Floor Income while being funded with a variable debt; (iii) a portion of our fixed rate assets being funded with variable debt and (iv) a portion of our variable assets being funded with fixed debt. Items (i) and (iv) will generally cause income to increase when interest rates increase from a low interest rate environment, whereas, items (ii) and (iii) will generally offset this increase. In the 100 basis point scenario for the year ended December 31, 2008, item (ii) had a greater impact than items (i) and (iv) resulting in a net loss. However, in the 300 basis point scenario, the impact of item (ii) was less relative to item (iv). In the 100 and 300 basis point scenario for the year ended December 31, 2007, items (i) and (iv) had a greater impact than item (ii) resulting in a net gain. Under the scenario in the tables above, called Asset and Funding Index Mismatches, the main driver of the decrease in pre tax income before unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities is the result of LIBOR based debt funding commercial paper indexed assets. See Market and Interest Rate Risk Management Asset and Liability Funding Gap for a further discussion. Increasing the spread between indices will also impact the unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives and hedging activities as it relates to basis swaps. Basis swaps used to convert LIBOR based debt to indices that we believe are economic hedges of the indices of the assets being funded resulted in unrealized losses of $(134) million and $(175) million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Offsetting this unrealized loss are basis swaps that economically hedge our off balance sheet Private Credit securitization trusts. Unrealized gains for these basis swaps totaled $229 million and $255 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The net impact of both of these items was an unrealized gain for all periods presented. In addition to interest rate risk addressed in the preceding tables, the Company is also exposed to risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. Foreign currency exchange risk is primarily the result of foreign denominated debt issued by the Company. As it relates to the Companys corporate unsecured and securitization debt programs used to fund the Companys business, the Companys policy is to use cross currency interest rate swaps to swap all foreign denominated debt payments (fixed and floating) to U.S. dollar LIBOR using a fixed exchange rate. In the tables above, there would be an immaterial impact on earnings if exchange rates were to decrease or increase, due to the terms of the hedging instrument and hedged items matching. The balance sheet interest bearing liabilities would be affected by a change in exchange rates; however, the change would be materially offset by the cross currency interest rate swaps in other assets or other liabilities. In addition, the Company has foreign exchange risk as a result of international operations; however, the exposure is minimal at this time. 
 
