Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Years ended December 31, 2007 2009 (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts, unless otherwise stated) FORWARD LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS Some of the statements contained in this Annual Report discuss future expectations and business strategies or include other forward looking information. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements. The forward looking information is based on various factors and was derived using numerous assumptions. OVERVIEW This section provides an overview of the Companys 2009 business results from a financial perspective. Certain financial impacts of funding and liquidity, loan losses, asset growth and net interest margin, fee income, the distressed debt purchased paper business, operating expenses, and capital adequacy are summarized below. The income statement amounts discussed in this Overview section are on a Core Earning basis. Although Core Earnings is the basis used for the Companys segment disclosures required under GAAP (see Note 20, Segment Reporting to the consolidated financial statements), the consolidation of the individual segments income statements is considered a non GAAP financial measure and thus is not considered to be presented in accordance with GAAP. See RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, below, for a discussion of income statement amounts on a GAAP basis. See BUSINESS SEGMENTS Limitations of Core Earnings Pre tax Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP by Business Segment for a discussion of Core Earnings and a reconciliation of Core Earnings income to GAAP income. In the second quarter of 2009, the Department of Education (ED) named Sallie Mae as one of four private sector servicers awarded a servicing contract (the ED Servicing Contract) to service loans. The contract covers the servicing of all federally owned student loans, including loans under the DSLP and the servicing of FFELP loans purchased by ED as part of the Loan Purchase Commitment Program (Purchase Program) pursuant to The Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act of 2008 (ECASLA). See LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES ED Funding Programs for a further discussion. Beginning in 2010, the contract will also cover the servicing of new Direct Loans. The contract has an initial term of five years with one, five year renewal at the option of ED. Through December 31, 2009, the Company has sold to ED approximately $18.5 billion face amount of loans as part of the Purchase Program. Borrowings of $18.5 billion related to the Loan Purchase Participation Program (Participation Program) pursuant to ECASLA were paid down in connection with these loan sales. The Company recognized a $284 million gain in 2009 related to this loan sale. The Company is servicing approximately 2 million accounts under the ED Servicing Contract as of December 31, 2009. This amount serviced includes loans sold by the Company to ED as well as loans sold by other companies to ED. As discussed in the Business section, legislative changes to the FFELP, the credit markets and the economic downturn impacted the Companys financial results for 2008 and 2009. The Company reported $597 million in Core Earnings net income in 2009, an increase from $526 million in 2008. Funding and Liquidity In 2009, we extended the duration of our liabilities by executing term financings to replace short term funding. In 2009, we completed a total of $5.9 billion of FFELP loan securitizations, $14.6 billion in funding 22 through the Straight A conduit and $7.5 billion in Private Education Loan securitizations ($6.0 billion through the Term Asset Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF)). We also raised $4.5 billion in term deposits at Sallie Mae Bank which was used to originate Private Education Loans. The Company began actively repurchasing its outstanding debt in the second quarter of 2008. The Company repurchased $3.4 billion and $1.9 billion face amount of its senior unsecured notes for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The debt repurchased had maturity dates ranging from 2008 to 2016. This repurchase activity resulted in gains of $536 million and $64 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. In January 2010, the Company repurchased $812 million of unsecured debt through a tender offer for a gain of $45 million. During 2009, the Company converted $339 million of its Series C Preferred Stock to common stock. As part of this conversion, the Company delivered to the holders of the preferred stock: (1) approximately 17 million shares (the number of common shares they would most likely receive if the preferred stock they held mandatorily converted to common shares in the fourth quarter of 2010) plus (2) a discounted amount of the preferred stock dividends the holders of the preferred stock would have received if they held the preferred stock through the mandatory conversion date. The accounting treatment for this conversion resulted in additional expense recorded as a part of preferred stock dividends for the period of approximately $53 million. From the transaction date through the mandatory conversion date of December 15, 2010, these transactions are cash flow positive. In January 2010, we terminated our existing ABCP facility and replaced it with a multiyear facility that will allow us to fund federal loans at a much lower cost. The new facility provides funding of up to $10 billion in the first year, $5 billion in the second year and $2 billion in the third year. The upfront fees were $4 million and the interest rate is commercial paper issuance cost plus 0.50 percent, a sharp reduction from the fees and interest rate associated with the prior facility. In 2008 and 2009, we paid upfront fees of $390 million and $151 million, respectively, on our ABCP facilities. In January 2010, we also became a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines (the FHLB) through our HICA insurance subsidiary. Through this membership, the FHLB will provide advances backed by Federal Housing Finance Agency approved collateral, which include federally guaranteed student loans. The amount, price and tenor of future advances will vary and will be determined at the time of each borrowing. At December 31, 2009, 85 percent of our Managed student loans were funded for the life of the loans, up from 70 percent in the prior year. We also had $12.5 billion in primary liquidity at December 31, 2009 consisting of cash and investments and committed lines of credit. Loan Losses On a Core Earnings basis, the loan loss provision for the year was $1.6 billion, of which $1.4 billion was for Private Education Loans. Provision expense has remained elevated since the fourth quarter of 2008 primarily as a result of the continued uncertainty of the U.S. economy. The Private Education Loan portfolio had experienced a significant increase in delinquencies through the first quarter of 2009; however, delinquencies as a percentage of loans in repayment declined in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009. The Company believes charge offs peaked in the third quarter of 2009 and will decline in future quarters as evidenced by the 33 percent decline in charge offs that occurred between the third and fourth quarters of 2009. Asset Growth and Net Interest Margin In 2009, the Company originated $21.7 billion in FFELP loans, a 21 percent increase over 2008. We refocused our FFELP originations on our internal lending brands, which grew 40 percent over 2008. See LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT Loan Originations for a further discussion. Private Education Loan originations for 2009 were $3.2 billion, a 50 percent decline from 2008. This decline is primarily a result of a continued tightening of our underwriting criteria, an increase in guaranteed student loan borrowing limits and the Companys withdrawal from certain markets. Beginning in 2008, the Company increased its underwriting standards, and as a result, average FICO scores and the percentage of 23 loans with cosigners have increased. The Company expects to maintain its high quality underwriting standards. The impact of this initiative and the overall economy may impact future Private Education Loan asset growth. Core Earnings net interest income was $2.3 billion in 2009 compared to $2.4 billion in 2008. Core Earnings net interest income was negatively impacted in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily as a result of an 18 basis point widening of the CP/LIBOR spread and higher credit spreads on the Companys ABS debt issued in 2008 and 2009 due to the current credit environment. Partially offsetting these decreases to net interest income were lower cost of funds related to the ED Conduit Program, lower borrowing costs associated with our ABCP facility, higher asset spreads earned on Private Education Loans originated during 2009 compared to prior years, and a $12 billion increase in the average balance of Managed student loans. Fee Income Core Earnings fee income from our contingency business declined $44 million from $340 million in 2008 to $296 million in 2009. This decline was primarily a result of significantly less guarantor collections revenue associated with rehabilitating delinquent FFELP loans. Loans are considered rehabilitated after a certain number of on time payments have been collected. The Company earns a rehabilitation fee only when the Guarantor sells the rehabilitated loan. The disruption in the credit markets has limited the sale of rehabilitated loans. Core Earnings fee income from our Guarantor Servicing business was $136 million for the year, a $15 million increase from last year. This increase primarily relates to an increase in guarantor issuance fees earned as a result of a significant increase in FFELP loan guarantees (consistent with the significant increase in the Companys FFELP loan originations) over the prior year as well as an increase in account maintenance fees earned which are a function of the size of the FFELP portfolio. A source of additional fee income for 2010 will be third party servicing revenue. As previously discussed, the Company began servicing 2 million accounts in the fourth quarter of 2009 under the ED Servicing Contract. The Company earned $9 million of servicing revenue in the fourth quarter of 2009 related to this contract and expects this to grow significantly as this third party serviced portfolio increases over time. Purchased Paper Business In 2008, we decided to exit the debt purchased paper business (see ASSET PERFORMANCE GROUP BUSINESS SEGMENT). The Company sold its international Purchased Paper Non Mortgage business in the first quarter of 2009. The Company sold all of the assets in its Purchased Paper Mortgage/Properties business in the fourth quarter of 2009. With the sale of GRP, the Purchased Paper Mortgage/Properties business is required to be presented separately as discontinued operations for all periods presented. This sale of assets in the fourth quarter of 2009 resulted in an after tax loss of $95 million. As of December 31, 2009, the portfolio of assets related to the Purchased Paper business was $285 million. Operating Expenses For 2009, operating expenses on a Core Earnings basis were $1.18 billion, compared to $1.23 billion in 2008. The $50 million decrease in operating expenses was primarily due to the Companys cost reduction efforts, offset by an increase in collection costs for delinquent and defaulted loans as well as higher expenses incurred to reconfigure the Companys servicing system to meet the requirements of the ED Servicing Contract awarded in 2009. Capital Adequacy At year end, the Companys tangible capital ratio was 2.0 percent of Managed assets, compared to 1.8 percent at 2008 year end. With 80 percent of our Managed loans carrying an explicit federal government guarantee and 85 percent of our Managed loans funded for the life of the loan, we currently believe that our 24 capital levels are appropriate. In the current economic environment, we cannot predict the availability nor cost of additional capital, should the Company determine that additional capital is necessary. Legislative Regulatory Developments On February 26, 2009, the Administration issued their 2010 fiscal year budget request to Congress which included provisions that called for the elimination of the FFELP program and which would require all new federal loans to be made through the Direct Student Loan Program (DSLP). On September 17, 2009 the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3221, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility act (SAFRA), which was consistent with the Administrations 2010 budget request to Congress. If it became law SAFRA would eliminate the FFELP and require that, after July 1, 2010 all new federal loans be made through the DSLP. The Administrations 2011 fiscal year budget continued these requests. The Senate has not yet introduced legislation on this issue. The Company, together with other members of the student loan community, has been working with members of Congress to enhance SAFRA to allow students and schools to continue to choose their loan originator and to require servicers to share in the risk of loan default. This proposal is referred to as the Community Proposal because it has the widespread support of the student lending community, which includes lenders, Guarantors, financial aid advisors and others. We believe that maintaining competition in the student loan programs and requiring participants to assume a portion of the risk inherent in the program, two of the major tenets of the Community Proposal, would result in a more efficient and cost effective program that better serves students, schools, ED and taxpayers. Although the ultimate outcome of this proposed legislation is still unknown, the following summarizes the impact on the Companys business if SAFRA is passed: 1. The Company would no longer originate FFELP loans and therefore would no longer earn revenue on new FFELP loan volume. The Company would make significant reductions in operating expense as the FFELP origination function would no longer be needed. 2. The Company earns collections revenue on delinquent and defaulted FFELP loans as well as guarantor account maintenance fees which are based on the size of the underlying FFELP portfolio. Because there would no longer be any new FFELP loan originations, this collections revenue and guarantor account maintenance fee revenue would decline over time as the underlying FFELP portfolio winds down. These revenues are recorded in contingency fee revenue and guarantor servicing fees. 3. The Company earns guarantor issuance fees on new FFELP guarantees. This revenue would no longer occur. This revenue is recorded in guarantor servicing fees. 4. The Company would service a percentage of the Direct Lending loans originated subsequent to the passage of SAFRA under the Companys current contract to service ED loans, increasing our servicing revenue. If the Community Proposal is passed the following would be the impact on the Companys business: 1. The Company would originate FFELP loans and would subsequently sell those loans to ED for a fee. Because the loans would be sold, the Company would no longer earn net interest margin on new FFELP loan volume. 2. The impact to collections revenue, guarantor account maintenance fees and guarantor issuance fees is the same as if SAFRA passes. 3. The Company would service a percentage of the Direct Lending loans originated subsequent to the passage of the Community Proposal under the Companys current contract to service ED loans. The Community Proposal would create incentives for enhanced default prevention through servicing risk sharing. 25 See the LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT, APG BUSINESS SEGMENT and CORPORATE AND OTHER BUSINESS SEGMENT discussions for greater detail on the nature and extent of our income and operations related to these areas. On January 14, 2010, President Obama announced his intention to propose a Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee that would require certain institutions which own insured depository institutions to pay a tax equal to 15 basis points (0.15 percent) of certain liabilities. This tax is intended to raise up to $117 billion to reimburse the federal government for the projected cost of the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). Congress has not yet taken up any legislation and no legislative language has been proposed. As such, the Company cannot say whether it will be subject to this new tax, if enacted. Additionally, since the Company did not receive any money from the TARP, the Companys position is that the Company should not be subject to the tax. Moreover, the majority of loans held by the Company were originated under the FFELP, with program terms and interest rates determined by Congress, and subjecting those assets to this new tax would not be consistent with the behavior the tax is intended to penalize. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations addresses our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP). Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, Significant Accounting Policies, includes a summary of the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results may differ from these estimates under varying assumptions or conditions. On a quarterly basis, management evaluates its estimates, particularly those that include the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments and are often about matters that are inherently uncertain. The most significant judgments, estimates and assumptions relate to the following critical accounting policies that are discussed in more detail below. Allowance for Loan Losses We maintain an allowance for loan losses at an amount sufficient to absorb losses incurred in our FFELP loan and Private Education Loan portfolios at the reporting date based on a projection of estimated probable credit losses incurred in the portfolio. We analyze those portfolios to determine the effects that the various stages of delinquency and forbearance have on borrower default behavior and ultimate charge off. We estimate the allowance for loan losses for our loan portfolio using a migration analysis of delinquent and current accounts. A migration analysis is a technique used to estimate the likelihood that a loan receivable may progress through the various delinquency stages and ultimately charge off and is a widely used reserving methodology in the consumer finance industry. We also use the migration analysis to estimate the amount of uncollectible accrued interest on Private Education Loans and reserve for that amount against current period interest income. The evaluation of the allowance for loan losses is inherently subjective, as it requires material estimates that may be susceptible to significant changes. Our default estimates are based on a loss confirmation period of generally two years (i.e., our allowance for loan loss covers the next two years of expected losses). The two year estimate of the allowance for loan losses is subject to a number of assumptions. If actual future performance in delinquency, charge offs and recoveries are significantly different than estimated, this could materially affect our estimate of the allowance for loan losses and the related provision for loan losses on our income statement. We believe that the Private Education Loan and FFELP allowance for loan losses are appropriate to cover probable losses incurred in the student loan portfolio. When calculating the allowance for loan losses on Private Education Loans, we divide the portfolio into categories of similar risk characteristics based on loan program type, loan status (in school, grace, forbearance, repayment and delinquency), underwriting criteria (FICO scores), and existence or absence of a cosigner. As noted above, we use historical experience of borrower default behavior and charge offs to estimate the probable credit losses incurred in the loan portfolio at the reporting date. Also, we use historical borrower payment behavior to estimate the timing and amount of future recoveries on charged off loans. We then apply the default and collection 26 rate projections to each category of loans. Once the quantitative calculation is performed, management reviews the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses and determines if qualitative adjustments need to be considered. One technique for making this determination is through projection modeling, which is used to determine if the allowance for loan losses is sufficient to absorb credit losses anticipated during the loss confirmation period. Projection modeling is a forward looking projection of charge offs. Assumptions that are utilized in the projection modeling include (but are not limited to) historical experience, recent changes in collection policies and procedures, collection performance, and macroeconomic indicators. Additionally, management considers changes in laws and regulations that could potentially impact the allowance for loan losses. The current and future economic environment is taken into account by the Company when calculating the allowance for loan loss. The Company analyzes key economic statistics and the impact they will have on future charge offs. Key economic statistics analyzed as part of the allowance for loan loss are unemployment rates (total and specific to college graduates), consumer confidence and other asset type delinquency rates (credit cards, mortgages). As a result of the economy, provision expense has remained elevated since the fourth quarter of 2008. If the economy weakens beyond our expectations, the expected losses resulting from our default and collection estimates embedded in the allowance could be higher than currently projected. As part of concluding on the adequacy of the allowance for loan loss, the Company also reviews key allowance and loan metrics. The most relevant of these metrics considered are the allowance coverage of charge offs ratio; the allowance as a percentage of total loans and of loans in repayment; and delinquency and forbearance percentages. In 2009, the Company implemented a program which offers loan modifications to borrowers who qualify. Temporary interest rate concessions are granted to borrowers experiencing financial difficulties and who meet other criteria. The allowance on these loans is calculated based on the present value of the expected cash flows (including estimates of future defaults) discounted at the loans effective interest rate. This calculation contains estimates which are inherently subjective and are evaluated on a periodic basis. Historically, our Private Education Loan programs do not require that borrowers begin repayment until six months after they have graduated or otherwise left school. Consequently, our loss estimates for these programs are generally low while the borrower is in school. At December 31, 2009, 31 percent of the principal balance in the higher education Managed Private Education Loan portfolio is related to borrowers who are in in school or grace status and not required to make payments. As the current portfolio ages, an increasing percentage of the borrowers will leave school and be required to begin payments on their loans. The allowance for losses will change accordingly. Similar to the rules governing FFELP payment requirements, our collection policies allow for periods of nonpayment for borrowers requesting additional payment grace periods upon leaving school or experiencing temporary difficulty meeting payment obligations. This is referred to as forbearance status and is considered separately in our allowance for loan losses. The loss confirmation period is in alignment with our typical collection cycle and takes into account these periods of forbearance. In general, Private Education Loan principal is charged off against the allowance when the loan exceeds 212 days delinquency. The charge off amount equals the estimated loss of the defaulted loan balance. Actual recoveries, as they are received, are applied against the remaining loan balance that was not charged off. If periodic recoveries are less than originally expected, the difference results in immediate additional provision expense and charge off of such amount. FFELP loans are guaranteed as to their principal and accrued interest in the event of default subject to a Risk Sharing level set based on the date of loan disbursement. For loans disbursed after October 1, 1993, and before July 1, 2006, we receive 98 percent reimbursement on all qualifying default claims. For loans disbursed on or after July 1, 2006, we receive 97 percent reimbursement. The CCRAA reduces the Risk Sharing level for loans disbursed on or after October 1, 2012 to 95 percent reimbursement. Similar to the allowance for Private Education Loan losses, the allowance for FFELP loan losses uses historical experience of borrower default behavior and a two year loss confirmation period to estimate the credit losses incurred in the loan portfolio at the reporting date. We divide the portfolio into categories of 27 similar risk characteristics based on loan program type, school type and loan status. We then apply the default rate projections, net of applicable Risk Sharing, to each category for the current period to perform our quantitative calculation. Once the quantitative calculation is performed, management reviews the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, in the same manner described above for Private Education Loans, and determines if qualitative adjustments need to be considered. Premium and Discount Amortization For both federally insured and Private Education Loans, we account for premiums paid, discounts received, and capitalized direct origination costs incurred on the origination of student loans in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 310, Receivables. The unamortized portion of the premiums and the discounts is included in the carrying value of the student loans on the consolidated balance sheet. We recognize income on our student loan portfolio based on the expected yield over the estimated life of the student loan after giving effect to the amortization of purchase premiums and accretion of student loan discounts. In arriving at the expected yield, we make a number of estimates that when changed are reflected as a cumulative adjustment to interest income in the current period. The most critical estimates for premium and discount amortization are incorporated in the Constant Prepayment Rate (CPR), which measures the rate at which loans in the portfolio pay down principal compared to their stated terms. The CPR estimate is based on historical prepayments due to consolidation activity, defaults, and term extensions from the utilization of forbearance as well as managements qualitative expectation of future prepayments and term extensions. As a result of the CCRAA and the current U.S. economic and credit environment, we, as well as many other industry competitors, have suspended our FFELP consolidation program. In lieu of consolidation, we may offer a term extension option for FFELP loans based on the borrowers total indebtedness. Based upon these market factors, we have updated our CPR assumptions that are affected by consolidation activity, and we have updated the estimates used in developing the cash flows and effective yield calculations as they relate to the amortization of student loan premium and discount amortization. Consolidation activity affects estimates differently depending on whether the original loans being consolidated were on balance sheet or off balance sheet and whether the resulting consolidation is retained by us or consolidated with a third party. When we consolidate a loan that was in our portfolio, the term of that loan is generally extended and the term of the amortization of associated student loan premiums and discounts is likewise extended to match the new term of the loan. In that process, the unamortized premium balance must be adjusted to reflect the new expected term of the consolidated loan as if it had been in place from inception. At the beginning of 2008, when we evaluated our estimates by taking into consideration the suspension of our FFELP consolidation program, there was an expectation of increased external consolidations to third parties but an overall decrease in total consolidation activity (when taking into account both internal consolidations and consolidations to third parties) due to a lack of financial incentive for lenders to continue offering a consolidation product. External consolidations did not significantly increase as expected; therefore, the consolidation assumptions implemented in the first quarter of 2008 were reduced during the third quarter of 2008, as we made the decision to lower the consolidation rate as additional information became available. This consolidation assumption was reduced again in the third quarter of 2009 as additional information became available. The total GAAP impact to interest income of CPR assumption changes in 2009 and 2008, related to FFELP loans, was $37.2 million and $20.1 million, respectively. Additionally, in previous years, the increased activity in FFELP Consolidation Loans had led to demand for the consolidation of Private Education Loans. The private loan consolidation assumption was established in 2007 and was changed to explicitly consider private loan consolidation in the same manner as for FFELP. Because of limited historical data on private loan consolidation, the assumption primarily relies on near term plan data and timing assumptions. In the second quarter of 2008, due to funding limitations, we suspended making private consolidation loans, which impacted this assumption. The total GAAP impact to interest income of CPR assumption changes in 2009 and 2008, related to Private Education Loans, was ($2.4) million and $9.4 million, respectively. 28 Loan consolidation, default, term extension and other prepayment factors affecting our CPR estimates are impacted by changes in our business strategy, FFELP legislative changes, and changes to the current economic and credit environment. If our accounting estimates, especially CPRs, are different as a result of changes to our business environment or actual consolidation or default activity, the previously recognized interest income on our student loan portfolio based on the expected yield of the student loan would potentially result in a material adjustment in the current period. Fair Value Measurement The Company uses estimates of fair value in applying various accounting standards for its financial statements. Under GAAP, fair value measurements are used in one of four ways: In the consolidated balance sheet with changes in fair value recorded in the consolidated statement of income; In the consolidated balance sheet with changes in fair value recorded in the accumulated other comprehensive income section of the consolidated statement of changes in stockholders equity; In the consolidated balance sheet for instruments carried at lower of cost or fair value with impairment charges recorded in the consolidated statement of income; and In the notes to the financial statements. Fair value is defined as the price to sell an asset or transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between willing and able market participants. In general, the Companys policy in estimating fair values is to first look at observable market prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets, where available. When these are not available, other inputs are used to model fair value such as prices of similar instruments, yield curves, volatilities, prepayment speeds, default rates and credit spreads (including for the Companys liabilities), relying first on observable data from active markets. Additional adjustments may be made for factors, including liquidity, credit, bid/offer spreads, etc., depending on current market conditions. Transaction costs are not included in the determination of fair value. When possible, the Company seeks to validate the models output to market transactions. Depending on the availability of observable inputs and prices, different valuation models could produce materially different fair value estimates. The values presented may not represent future fair values and may not be realizable. The Company categorizes its fair value estimates based on a hierarchical framework associated with three levels of price transparency utilized in measuring financial instruments at fair value. Classification is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value of the instrument. The three levels are as follows: Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the reporting entity has the ability to access at the measurement date. The types of financial instruments included in level 1 are highly liquid instruments with quoted prices. Level 2 Inputs from active markets, other than quoted prices for identical instruments, are used to model fair value. Significant inputs are directly observable from active markets for substantially the full term of the asset or liability being valued. Level 3 Pricing inputs significant to the valuation are unobservable. Inputs are developed based on the best information available; however, significant judgment is required by management in developing the inputs. In August 2009, the FASB issued a topic update to ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures. The update provides clarification for the valuation of liabilities when a quoted price in an active market for the liability does not exist and clarifies that a quoted price for the liability when traded as an asset (when no adjustments are required) is a Level 1 fair value measurement. In addition, it also clarifies that an entity is not required to adjust the value of a liability for the existence of a restriction that prevents the transfer of the liability. This topic update was effective for the Company beginning October 1, 2009 and was not material to the Company. On April 9, 2009, the FASB issued three ASC topic updates regarding fair value measurements and recognition of impairment. Under ASC 320, Investments Debt and Equity Securities, impairment must be recorded within the consolidated statements of income for debt securities if there exists a fair value loss and the entity intends to sell the security or it is more likely than not the entity will be required to sell the security 29 before recovery of the loss. Additionally, expected credit losses must be recorded through income regardless of the impairment determination above. Remaining fair value losses are recorded to other comprehensive income. ASC 825, Financial Instruments, requires interim disclosures of the fair value of financial instruments that were previously only required annually. Finally, the update to ASC 820 provides guidance for determining when a significant decrease in market activity has occurred and when a transaction is not orderly. It further reiterates that prices from inactive markets or disorderly transactions should carry less weight, if any, in the determination of fair value. These topic updates were effective for the Company beginning April 1, 2009. The adoption of these updates was not material to the Company. Significant assumptions used in fair value measurements, including those related to credit and liquidity risk, are as follows: 1. Investments Our investments primarily consist of overnight/weekly maturity instruments with high credit quality counterparties. However, we have considered credit and liquidity risk involving specific instruments. These assumptions have further been validated by the successful maturity of these investments in the period immediately following the end of the reporting period. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded an impairment of $8 million related to our investment in the Reserve Primary Fund based on an internal assessment of the collectability of our remaining investment. See LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Counterparty Exposure for a further discussion. 2. Derivatives When determining the fair value of derivatives, we take into account counterparty credit risk for positions where we are exposed to the counterparty on a net basis by assessing exposure net of collateral held. The net exposures for each counterparty are adjusted based on market information available for the specific counterparty, including spreads from credit default swaps. Additionally, when the counterparty has exposure to the Company related to SLM Corporation derivatives, we fully collateralize the exposure, minimizing the adjustment necessary to the derivative valuations for our credit risk. Trusts that contain derivatives are not required to post collateral to counterparties as the credit quality and securitized nature of the trusts minimizes any adjustments for the counterpartys exposure to the trusts. Adjustments related to credit risk reduced the overall value of our derivatives by $65 million as of December 31, 2009. We also take into account changes in liquidity when determining the fair value of derivative positions. We adjusted the fair value of certain less liquid positions downward by approximately $195 million to take into account a significant reduction in liquidity as of December 31, 2009, related primarily to basis swaps indexed to interest rate indices with inactive markets. A major indicator of market inactivity is the widening of the bid/ask spread in these markets. In general, the widening of counterparty credit spreads and reduced liquidity for derivative instruments as indicated by wider bid/ask spreads will reduce the fair value of derivatives. In addition, certain cross currency interest rate swaps hedging foreign currency denominated reset rate and amortizing notes in the Companys on balance sheet trusts contain extension features that coincide with the remarketing dates of the notes. The valuation of the extension feature requires significant judgment based on internally developed inputs. These swaps were transferred into Level 3 during the first quarter of 2009 due to a change in the assumption regarding successful remarketing and significant unobservable inputs used to model notional amortizations. The significant inputs used are prepayment and default rate assumptions used to project the cash flows of the trust. These swaps were carried at $1.6 billion as of December 31, 2009. 3. Residual Interests We have never sold our Residual Interests. We do not consider our Residual Interests to be liquid, which we take into account when valuing our Residual Interests. We use non binding broker quotes and industry analyst reports which show changes in the indicative prices of the asset backed securities tranches immediately senior to the Residual Interest as an indication of potential changes in the discount rate used to value the Residual Interest. We also use the most current prepayment and default rate assumptions to project the cash flows used to value Residual Interests. These assumptions are internally developed and primarily based on analyzing the actual results of loan performance from past periods. See Note 8, Student Loan Securitization, to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of all assumption changes made during the quarter 30 to properly determine the fair value of the Residual Interests, as well as a shock analysis to fair value related to all significant assumptions. 4. Student Loans Our FFELP loans and Private Education Loans are accounted for at cost or at the lower of cost or market if the loan is held for sale. The fair value is disclosed in compliance with ASC 825. For both FFELP loans and Private Education Loans accounted for at cost, fair value is determined by modeling loan level cash flows using stated terms of the assets and internally developed assumptions to determine aggregate portfolio yield, net present value and average life. The significant assumptions used to project cash flows are prepayment speeds, default rates, cost of funds, and required return on equity. In addition, the Floor Income component of our FFELP loan portfolio is valued through discounted cash flow and option models using both observable market inputs and internally developed inputs. Significant inputs into the models are not generally market observable. They are either derived internally through a combination of historical experience and managements qualitative expectation of future performance (in the case of prepayment speeds, default rates, and capital assumptions) or are obtained through external broker quotes (as in the case of cost of funds). When possible, market transactions are used to validate the model. In most cases, these are either infrequent or not observable. For FFELP loans classified as held for sale and accounted for at the lower of cost or market, the fair value is based on the committed sales price of the various loan purchase programs established by ED. For further information regarding the impact of Level 3 fair values to the results of operations, see Note 16, Fair Value Measurements, to the consolidated financial statements. Securitization Accounting and Retained Interests We regularly engage in securitization transactions as part of our Lending segment financing strategy (see also LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Securitization Activities). In a securitization, we sell student loans to a trust that issues bonds backed by the student loans as part of the transaction. When our securitizations meet the sale criteria of ASC 860, Transfers and Servicing, we record a gain on the sale of the student loans, which is the difference between the allocated cost basis of the assets sold and the relative fair value of the assets received including the Residual Interest component of the Retained Interest in the securitization transaction. The Residual Interest is the right to receive cash flows from the student loans and reserve accounts in excess of the amounts needed to pay servicing, derivative costs (if any), other fees, and the principal and interest on the bonds backed by the student loans. We have not structured any securitization transaction to meet the sale criteria since March 2007 and all securitizations settled since that date have been accounted for on balance sheet as secured financings as a result. Under ASC 825, we elected to carry all existing Residual Interests at fair value with subsequent changes in fair value recorded in servicing and securitization revenue. Since there are no quoted market prices for our Residual Interests, we estimate their fair value both initially and each subsequent quarter using the key assumptions listed below: The CPR (see Premium and Discount Amortization above for discussion of this assumption). The expected credit losses from the underlying securitized loan portfolio. Although loss estimates related to the allowance for loan loss are based on a loss confirmation period of generally two years, expected credit losses related to the Residual Interests use a life of loan default rate. The life of loan default rate is used to determine the percentage of the loans original balance that will default. The life of loan default rate is then applied using a curve to determine the percentage of the overall default rate that should be recognized annually throughout the life of the loan (see also Allowance for Loan Losses above for the determination of default rates and the factors that may impact them). The discount rate used (see Fair Value Measurement discussed above). We also receive income for servicing the loans in our securitization trusts. We assess the amounts received as compensation for these activities at inception and on an ongoing basis to determine if the amounts 31 received are adequate compensation as defined in ASC 860. To the extent such compensation is determined to be no more or less than adequate compensation, no servicing asset or obligation is recorded. See discussion that follows on changes to accounting principles associated with transfers of financial assets and the Variable Interest Entity Consolidation Model that will be effective in 2010. Transfers of Financial Assets and the Variable Interest Entity (VIE) Consolidation Model Changes in Accounting Principles effective January 1, 2010 In June 2009, the FASB issued topic updates to ASC 860, Transfers and Servicing, and to ASC 810, Consolidation. The topic update to ASC 860, among other things, (1) eliminates the concept of a Qualifying Special Purpose Entity (QSPE), (2) changes the requirements for derecognizing financial assets, (3) changes the amount of the recognized gain/loss on a transfer accounted for as a sale when beneficial interests are received by the transferor, and (4) requires additional disclosure. The topic update to ASC 860 is effective for transactions which occur in fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009. The impact of ASC 860 to future transactions will depend on how such transactions are structured. ASC 860 relates primarily to the Companys secured borrowing facilities. All of the Companys secured borrowing facilities entered into in 2008 and 2009, including securitization trusts, have been accounted for as on balance sheet financing facilities. These transactions would have been accounted for in the same manner if ASC 860 had been effective during these years. The topic update to ASC 810 significantly changes the consolidation model for Variable Interest Entities (VIEs). The topic update amends ASC 810 and, among other things, (1) eliminates the exemption for QSPEs, (2) provides a new approach for determining who should consolidate a VIE that is more focused on control rather than economic interest, (3) changes when it is necessary to reassess who should consolidate a VIE and (4) requires additional disclosure. The topic update to ASC 810 is effective for the first annual reporting period beginning after November 15, 2009. Under ASC 810, if an entity has a Variable Interest in a VIE and that entity is determined to be the Primary Beneficiary of the VIE then that entity will consolidate the VIE. The Primary Beneficiary is the entity which has both: (1) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIEs economic performance and (2) the obligation to absorb losses or receive benefits of the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE. As it relates to the Companys securitized assets, the Company is the servicer of the securitized assets and owns the Residual Interest of the securitization trusts. As a result the Company is the Primary Beneficiary of its securitization trusts and will consolidate those trusts that are off balance sheet at their historical cost basis on January 1, 2010. The historical cost basis is the basis that would exist if these securitization trusts had remained on balance sheet since they settled. ASC 810 did not change the accounting of any other VIEs the Company has on its balance sheet as of January 1, 2010. These new accounting rules apply to new transactions entered into from January 1, 2010 forward as well. On January 1, 2010, upon adopting ASC 810, the Company removed the $1.8 billion of Residual Interests associated with these trusts from the consolidated balance sheet and the Company consolidated $35.0 billion of assets ($32.6 billion of which are student loans, net of a $550 million allowance for loan loss) and $34.4 billion of liabilities (primarily trust debt), which resulted in an approximate $0.7 billion after tax reduction of stockholders equity (through retained earnings). After adoption of ASC 810, related to the securitization trusts that were consolidated on January 1, 2010, the Companys results of operations will no longer reflect servicing and securitization income related to these securitization trusts, but will instead report interest income, provisions for loan losses associated with the securitized assets and interest expense associated with the debt issued from the securitization trusts to third parties. This presentation will be identical to the Companys accounting treatment of prior on balance securitization trusts. The Company has not had a securitization that was treated as a sale since 2007. Management allocates capital on a Managed Basis. This change will not impact managements view of capital adequacy for the Company. The Companys unsecured revolving credit facilities contain two principal 32 financial covenants related to tangible net worth and net revenue. The tangible net worth covenant requires the Company to maintain consolidated tangible net worth of at least $1.38 billion at all times. Consolidated tangible net worth as calculated for purposes of this covenant was $3.5 billion as of December 31, 2009. Upon adoption of ASC 810 on January 1, 2010, consolidated tangible net worth as calculated for this covenant was $2.7 billion. Because the transition adjustment upon adoption of ASC 810 is recorded through retained earnings the net revenue covenant was not impacted by the adoption of ASC 810. The ongoing net revenue covenant will not be impacted by ASC 810s impact on our securitization trusts as the net revenue covenant treated all off balance sheet trusts as on balance sheet for purposes of calculating net revenue. Derivative Accounting We use interest rate swaps, cross currency interest rate swaps, interest rate futures contracts, Floor Income Contracts and interest rate cap contracts as an integral part of our overall risk management strategy to manage interest rate and foreign currency risk arising from our fixed rate and floating rate financial instruments. We account for these instruments in accordance with ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging, which requires that every derivative instrument, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, be recorded at fair value on the balance sheet as either an asset or liability. We determine the fair value for our derivative instruments primarily by using pricing models that consider current market conditions and the contractual terms of the derivative contracts. Market inputs into the model include interest rates, forward interest rate curves, volatility factors, forward foreign exchange rates, and the closing price of our stock (related to our equity forward contracts). Inputs are generally from active financial markets; however, as mentioned under Fair Value Measurements above, adjustments are made for inputs from illiquid markets and to adjust for credit risk. In some instances, counterparty valuations are used in determining the fair value of a derivative when deemed a more appropriate estimate of the fair value. Pricing models and their underlying assumptions impact the amount and timing of unrealized gains and losses recognized and, as such, the use of different pricing models or assumptions could produce different financial results. As a matter of policy, we compare the fair values of our derivatives that we calculate to those provided by our counterparties on a monthly basis. Any significant differences are identified and resolved appropriately. ASC 815 requires that changes in the fair value of derivative instruments be recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria as specified by ASC 815 are met. We believe that all of our derivatives are effective economic hedges and are a critical element of our interest rate risk management strategy. However, under ASC 815, some of our derivatives, primarily Floor Income Contracts, certain Eurodollar futures contracts, basis swaps and equity forwards, do not qualify for hedge treatment under ASC 815. Therefore, changes in market value along with the periodic net settlements must be recorded through the gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net line in the consolidated statement of income with no consideration for the corresponding change in fair value of the hedged item. The derivative market value adjustment is primarily caused by interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate volatility, changing credit spreads during the period, and changes in our stock price (related to equity forwards), as well as the volume and term of derivatives not receiving hedge accounting treatment. See also BUSINESS SEGMENTS Limitations of Core Earnings Pre tax Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP by Business Segment Derivative Accounting for a detailed discussion of our accounting for derivatives. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill The Company accounts for goodwill and acquired intangible assets in accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other, pursuant to which goodwill is not amortized. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually as of September 30 at the reporting unit level, which is the same as or one level below an operating segment as defined in ASC 280, Segment Reporting. Goodwill is also tested at interim periods if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount may be impaired. In accordance with ASC 350, Step 1 of the goodwill impairment analysis consists of a comparison of the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value. The carrying value includes goodwill of $991 million at 33 December 31, 2009 and 2008. The Company retains an appraisal firm to perform annual Step 1 impairment testing. Accordingly, the Company engages the appraisal firm to determine the fair value of each of its four reporting units to which goodwill is allocated as of September 30. These four reporting units are Lending, APG, Guarantor Servicing and Upromise. The fair value of each reporting unit is determined by weighting different valuation approaches, as applicable, with the primary approach being the income approach. The income approach measures the value of each reporting unit based on the present value of the reporting units future economic benefit determined based on discounted cash flows derived from the Companys projections for each reporting unit. These projections are generally five year projections that reflect the future strategic operating and financial performance of each respective reporting unit, including assumptions related to applicable cost savings and planned dispositions or wind down activities. If a component of a reporting unit is winding down or is assumed to wind down, the projections extend through the anticipated wind down period. In conjunction with the Companys September 30, 2009 annual impairment assessment, cash flow projections for the Lending, APG, and Guarantor Servicing reporting units were valued assuming the proposed SAFRA legislation is passed. If the Community Proposal is passed, it would result in additional cash flows for the Lending reporting unit but no material change in cash flows for the APG and Guarantor Servicing reporting units. (SAFRA legislation and Community Proposal are discussed in more detail in OVERVIEW Legislative and Regulatory Developments.) Under the Companys guidance, the appraisal firm develops both an asset rate of return and an equity rate of return (or discount rate) for each reporting unit incorporating such factors as a risk free rate, a market rate of return, a measure of volatility (Beta) and a company specific and capital markets risk premium, as appropriate, to adjust for volatility and uncertainty in the economy and to capture specific risk related to the respective reporting units. The Company considers whether an asset sale or an equity sale would be the most likely sale structure for each reporting unit and values each reporting unit based on the more likely hypothetical scenario. The Company has concluded that a hypothetical equity sale scenario would be more likely for its Lending reporting unit, while a hypothetical asset sale would be more likely for the APG, Guarantor Servicing and Upromise reporting units. Discount rates employed in conjunction with the income approach reflect market based estimates of capital costs and are adjusted for managements assessment of a market participants view with respect to execution, concentration and other risks associated with the projected cash flows of individual reporting units. Accordingly, these discount rates are reflective of the long standing contractual relationships associated with these cash flows as well as the wind down nature of the cash flows for certain components of the Lending and APG reporting units and the Guarantor Servicing reporting unit as a whole. Management reviews and approves these discount rates, including the factors incorporated to develop the discount rates for each reporting unit. For the valuation of the Lending reporting unit, which assumes an equity sale, the discount rate is applied to the reporting units projected net cash flows and the residual or terminal value yielding the fair value of equity for the reporting unit. For valuations assuming an asset sale, the discount rates applicable to the individual reporting units are applied to the respective reporting units projected asset cash flows and residual or terminal values, as applicable, yielding the fair value of the assets for the respective reporting units. The estimated proceeds from the hypothetical asset sale are then used to pay off any liabilities of the reporting unit with the remaining cash equaling the fair value of the reporting units equity. The guideline company or market approach as well as the publicly traded stock approach are also considered for the Companys reporting units, as applicable. The market approach generally measures the value of a reporting unit as compared to recent sales or offerings of comparable companies. The secondary market approach indicates value based on multiples calculated using the market value of minority interests in publicly traded comparable companies or guideline companies. Whether analyzing comparable transactions or the market value of minority interests in publicly traded or guideline companies, consideration is given to the line of business and the operating performance of the comparable companies versus the reporting unit being tested. Given current market conditions, the lack of recent sales or offerings in the market and the low correlation between the operations of identified guideline companies to the Companys reporting units, less emphasis is placed on the market approach for the APG, Guarantor Servicing and Upromise reporting units. 34 The Company acknowledges that its stock price (as well as that of its peers) is a consideration in determining the value of its reporting units and the Company as a whole. However, management believes the income approach is a better measure of the value of its reporting units in the current environment. During the latter half of 2008 and during 2009, the Company experienced a trend of lower and very volatile market capitalization. During 2009, the Companys stock price fluctuated significantly from a low of $3.19 in March 2009 subsequent to the Administrations 2010 budget proposal, which included its plan to eliminate the FFELP and require all federally funded students loans to be originated through the DSLP, to a high of $12.00 in December 2009. At September 30 and December 31, 2009, the Companys stock price was $8.72 and $11.27, respectively. The Company believes the share price has been significantly reduced due to the continued downturn in the credit and economic environment as well as uncertainties surrounding the ongoing legislative process, as addressed previously in OVERVIEW Legislative and Regulatory Developments. Management believes these economic factors should not have a long term impact. In addition, the Company will review and revise, potentially significantly, its business model based on the final form of legislation upon completion of the legislative process. In the event that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value as determined in Step 1, Step 2 of the goodwill impairment analysis compares the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill to the carrying value of the reporting units goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in a manner consistent with determining goodwill in a business combination. If the carrying amount of the reporting units goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Other Acquired Intangibles Other acquired intangible assets, which include but are not limited to tradenames, customer and other relationships, and non compete agreements, are also accounted for in accordance with ASC 350. Acquired intangible assets with definite or finite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives in proportion to their estimated economic benefit. Finite lived acquired intangible assets are reviewed for impairment using an undiscounted cash flow analysis when an event occurs or circumstances change indicating the carrying amount of a finite lived asset or asset group may not be recoverable. An impairment loss would be recognized if the carrying amount of the asset (or asset group) exceeds the estimated undiscounted cash flows used to determine the fair value of the asset or asset group. The impairment loss recognized would be the difference between the carrying amount and fair value. Indefinite life acquired intangible assets are not amortized. They are tested for impairment annually as of September 30 or at interim periods if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying value of these assets may be impaired. The annual or interim impairment test of indefinite lived acquired intangible assets is based primarily on a discounted cash flow analysis. 35 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Condensed Statements of Income Increase (Decrease) Years Ended December 31, 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 2009 2008 2007 $ % $ % Net interest income $ 1,723 $ 1,365 $ 1,588 $ 358 26 % $ (223 ) (14 )% Less: provisions for loan losses 1,119 720 1,015 399 55 (295 ) (29 ) Net interest income after provisions for loan losses 604 645 573 (41 ) (6 ) 72 13 Gains on student loan securitizations 367 (367 ) (100 ) Servicing and securitization revenue 295 262 437 33 13 (175 ) (40 ) Gains (losses) on loans and securities, net 284 (186 ) (95 ) 470 253 (91 ) (96 ) Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net (604 ) (445 ) (1,361 ) (159 ) (36 ) 916 67 Contingency fee revenue 296 340 336 (44 ) (13 ) 4 1 Collections revenue 51 128 220 (77 ) (60 ) (92 ) (42 ) Guarantor servicing fees 136 121 156 15 12 (35 ) (22 ) Other income 928 392 385 536 137 7 2 Restructuring expenses 14 83 23 (69 ) (83 ) 60 261 Operating expenses 1,255 1,316 1,487 (61 ) (5 ) (171 ) (11 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations, before income tax expense (benefit) 721 (142 ) (492 ) 863 (608 ) 350 71 Income tax expense (benefit) 238 (76 ) 408 314 (413 ) (484 ) (119 ) Net income (loss) from continuing operations 483 (66 ) (900 ) 549 832 834 93 (Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of tax (158 ) (143 ) 6 (15 ) (10 ) (149 ) (2483 ) Net income (loss) 325 (209 ) (894 ) 534 256 685 77 Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 1 4 2 (3 ) (75 ) 2 100 Net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation 324 (213 ) (896 ) 537 252 683 76 Preferred stock dividends 146 111 37 35 32 74 200 Net income (loss) attributable to common stock $ 178 $ (324 ) $ (933 ) $ 502 155 % $ 609 65 % Net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations, net of tax $ 482 $ (70 ) $ (902 ) $ 552 789 % $ 832 92 % Discontinued operations, net of tax (158 ) (143 ) 6 (15 ) (10 ) (149 ) (2483 ) Net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation $ 324 $ (213 ) $ (896 ) $ 537 252 % $ 683 76 % Basic earnings (loss) per common share: Continuing operations $ .71 $ (.39 ) $ (2.28 ) $ 1.10 282 % $ 1.89 83 % Discontinued operations $ (.33 ) $ (.30 ) $ .02 $ (.03 ) (10 )% $ (.32 ) 1600 % Total $ .38 $ (.69 ) $ (2.26 ) $ 1.07 155 % $ 1.57 69 % Diluted earnings (loss) per common share: Continuing operations $ .71 $ (.39 ) $ (2.28 ) $ 1.10 282 % $ 1.89 83 % Discontinued operations $ (.33 ) $ (.30 ) $ .02 $ (.03 ) (10 )% $ (.32 ) 1600 % Total $ .38 $ (.69 ) $ (2.26 ) $ 1.07 155 % $ 1.57 69 % Dividends per common share $ $ $ .25 $ % $ (.25 ) (100 )% 36 Condensed Balance Sheets Increase (Decrease) December 31, 2009 vs. 2008 2009 2008 $ % Assets FFELP Stafford and Other Student Loans, net $ 42,979 $ 44,025 $ (1,046 ) (2 )% FFELP Stafford Loans Held for Sale 9,696 8,451 1,245 15 FFELP Consolidation Loans, net 68,379 71,744 (3,365 ) (5 ) Private Education Loans, net 22,753 20,582 2,171 11 Other loans, net 420 729 (309 ) (42 ) Cash and investments 8,084 5,112 2,972 58 Restricted cash and investments 5,169 3,535 1,634 46 Retained Interest in off balance sheet securitized loans 1,828 2,200 (372 ) (17 ) Goodwill and acquired intangible assets, net 1,177 1,249 (72 ) (6 ) Other assets 9,500 11,141 (1,641 ) (15 ) Total assets $ 169,985 $ 168,768 $ 1,217 1 % Liabilities and Stockholders Equity Short term borrowings $ 30,897 $ 41,933 $ (11,036 ) (26 )% Long term borrowings 130,546 118,225 12,321 10 Other liabilities 3,263 3,604 (341 ) (9 ) Total liabilities 164,706 163,762 944 1 SLM Corporation stockholders equity before treasury stock 7,140 6,855 285 4 Common stock held in treasury 1,861 1,856 5 SLM Corporation stockholders equity 5,279 4,999 280 6 Noncontrolling interest 7 (7 ) (100 ) Total equity 5,279 5,006 273 5 Total liabilities and equity $ 169,985 $ 168,768 $ 1,217 1 % RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We present the results of operations first on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. As discussed in Item 1. Business, we have two primary business segments, Lending and APG, plus a Corporate and Other business segment. Since these business segments operate in distinct business environments, the discussion following the Consolidated Earnings Summary is primarily presented on a segment basis. See BUSINESS SEGMENTS for further discussion on the components of each segment. Securitization gains and the ongoing servicing and securitization income are included in LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Securitization Activities. The discussion of derivative market value gains and losses is under BUSINESS SEGMENTS Limitations of Core Earnings Pre tax Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP by Business Segment Derivative Accounting. The discussion of goodwill and acquired intangible amortization and impairment is discussed under BUSINESS SEGMENTS Limitations of Core Earnings Pre tax Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP by Business Segment Acquired Intangibles. 37 CONSOLIDATED EARNINGS SUMMARY The main drivers of our net income are the growth in our Managed student loan portfolio and our financing cost, which drives net interest income, gains and losses on the sales of student loans, gains on debt repurchases, unrealized gains and losses on derivatives that do not receive hedge accounting treatment, growth in our fee based business, and expense control. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 For the year ended December 31, 2009, net income attributable to SLM Corporation was $324 million, or $.38 diluted earnings per common share attributable to SLM Corporation common shareholders, compared to a net loss of $213 million, or $.69 diluted loss per common share attributable to SLM Corporation common shareholders, for the year ended December 31, 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2009, net income attributable to SLM Corporation from continuing operations was $482 million, or $.71 diluted earnings from continuing operations per common share attributable to SLM Corporation common shareholders, compared to a net loss from continuing operations of $70 million, or $.39 diluted loss from continuing operations per common share attributable to SLM Corporation common shareholders, for year ended December 31, 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2009, net loss attributable to SLM Corporation from discontinued operations was $158 million or $.33 diluted loss from discontinued operations per common share attributable to SLM Corporation common shareholders, compared to a net loss from discontinued operations of $143 million, or $.30 diluted loss from discontinued operations per common share attributable to SLM Corporation common shareholders, for the year ended December 31, 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Companys pre tax income from continuing operations was $721 million compared to a pre tax loss of $142 million in the prior year. The increase in pre tax income of $863 million was primarily due to an increase in gains on debt repurchases of $472 million and an increase in gains on sales of loans and securities of $470 million offset by an increase of $159 million in net losses on derivative and hedging activities. The change in the net losses on derivative and hedging activities is primarily the result of mark to market derivative valuations on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge treatment under GAAP. There were no gains on student loan securitizations in either the year ended December 31, 2009 or the prior year as the Company did not complete any off balance sheet securitizations in those years. Servicing and securitization revenue increased by $33 million from $262 million in the year ended December 31, 2008 to $295 million in the year ended December 31, 2009. This increase was primarily due to a $95 million decrease in the current year unrealized mark to market loss of $330 million on the Companys Residual Interests compared with the prior year unrealized mark to market loss of $425 million, offset by the decrease in net Embedded Floor Income. See LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Securitization Activities Retained Interest in Securitized Receivables for further discussion of the factors impacting the fair values. Net interest income after provisions for loan losses decreased by $41 million in the year ended December 31, 2009 from the prior year. This decrease was due to a $399 million increase in provisions for loan losses offset by a $358 million increase in net interest income. The increase in net interest income was primarily due to an increase in the student loan spread, a decrease in the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees and a $15 billion increase in the average balance of on balance sheet student loans (see LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT Net Interest Income Net Interest Margin On Balance Sheet). The increase in provisions for loan losses related primarily to increases in charge off expectations on Private Education Loans primarily as a result of the continued weakening of the U.S. economy (see LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT Private Education Loan Losses Private Education Loan Delinquencies and Forbearance and Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses). There were $284 million in net gains on sales of loans and securities in the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily related to the ED Purchase Program as previously discussed, compared to net losses of $186 million incurred in the prior year. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2008, these losses were primarily the result of the Companys repurchase of delinquent Private Education Loans from the Companys off balance sheet securitization trusts. When Private Education Loans in the Companys off balance sheet securitization 38 trusts that settled before September 30, 2005 became 180 days delinquent, the Company previously exercised its contingent call option to repurchase these loans at par value out of the trusts and recorded a loss for the difference in the par value paid and the fair market value of the loans at the time of purchase. The Company does not hold this contingent call option for any trusts that settled after September 30, 2005. In October 2008, the Company decided to no longer exercise its contingent call option. The loss in 2008 also relates to the sale of approximately $1.0 billion FFELP loans to the ED under ECASLA, which resulted in a $53 million loss. For the year ended December 31, 2009, contingency fee, collections and guarantor servicing fee revenue totaled $483 million, a $106 million decrease from $589 million in the prior year. This decrease was primarily due to a decline in revenue due to a significantly smaller non mortgage purchased paper portfolio year over year as a result of winding down this collections business. Total impairment in the non mortgage purchased paper portfolio was $79 million in 2009 compared to $111 million in 2008. The impairment is a result of the continued impact of the economy on the ability to collect on these assets (see ASSET PERFORMANCE GROUP BUSINESS SEGMENT). In response to the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007 (CCRAA) and challenges in the capital markets, the Company initiated a restructuring plan in the fourth quarter of 2007. The plan focused on conforming our lending activities to the economic environment, exiting certain customer relationships and product lines, winding down our debt purchased paper businesses, and significantly reducing our operating expenses. The restructuring plan is essentially completed and our objectives have been met. As part of the Companys cost reduction efforts, restructuring expenses of $14 million and $83 million were recognized in continuing operations in the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Restructuring expenses from the fourth quarter of 2007 through December 31, 2009 totaled $129 million, of which $120 million was recorded in continuing operations and $9 million was recorded in discontinued operations. The majority of these restructuring expenses were severance costs related to the completed and planned elimination of approximately 2,900 positions, or approximately 25 percent of the workforce. We estimate approximately $5 million of additional restructuring expenses associated with our current cost reduction efforts will be incurred during 2010. On September 17, 2009, the House passed SAFRA which, if signed into law, would eliminate the FFELP and require that, after July 1, 2010, all new federal loans be made through the Direct Loan program. The Senate has yet to take up the legislation. If this legislation is signed into law, the Company will undertake another significant restructuring to conform its infrastructure to the elimination of the FFELP and achieve additional expense reduction. See OVERVIEW Legislative and Regulatory Developments for a further discussion of SAFRA. Operating expenses were $1.26 billion in the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $1.32 billion in the prior year. The $61 million decrease in operating expenses was primarily due to the Companys cost reduction efforts discussed above as well as an $11 million reduction in amortization and impairment of acquired intangible assets. The amortization and impairment of acquired intangibles for continuing operations totaled $75 million and $86 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Income tax expense from continuing operations was $238 million in the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to income tax (benefit) of $(76) million in the prior year, resulting in effective tax rates of 33 percent and 54 percent. The movement in the effective tax rate in 2009 compared with the prior year was primarily driven by the reduction of tax and interest on U.S. federal and state uncertain tax positions in both periods, as well as the permanent tax impact of deducting Proposed Merger related transaction costs in the year ended December 31, 2008. Also contributing to the movement was the impact of significantly higher reported pre tax income in 2009 and the resulting changes in the proportion of income subject to federal and state taxes. For additional information, see Note 19, Income Taxes, to the consolidated financial statements. During 2009, the Company converted $339 million of its Series C Preferred Stock to common stock. As part of this conversion, the Company delivered to the holders of the preferred stock: (1) approximately 17 million shares (the number of common shares they would most likely receive if the preferred stock they held mandatorily converted to common shares in the fourth quarter of 2010) plus (2) a discounted amount of the preferred stock dividends the holders of the preferred stock would have received if they held the preferred 39 stock through the mandatory conversion date. The accounting treatment for this conversion resulted in additional expense recorded as a part of preferred stock dividends for the period of approximately $53 million. Net loss attributable to SLM Corporation from discontinued operations was $158 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $143 million for the prior year. As discussed above, the Company sold all of the assets in its Purchased Paper Mortgage/Properties business in the fourth quarter of 2009 which resulted in an after tax loss of $95 million. In the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company incurred $154 million of after tax asset impairments associated with this business line compared to the prior year, during which the Company incurred $161 million of after tax asset impairments. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 For the year ended December 31, 2008, our net loss attributable to SLM Corporation was $213 million, or $.69 diluted loss per share attributable to SLM Corporation common shareholders, compared to a net loss of $896 million, or $2.26 diluted loss per share attributable to SLM Corporation common shareholders, for the year December 31, 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2008, net loss attributable to SLM Corporation from continuing operations was $70 million, or $.39 diluted earnings from continuing operations per common share attributable to SLM Corporation common shareholders, compared to a net loss from continuing operations of $902 million, or $2.28 diluted loss from continuing operations per common share attributable to SLM Corporation common shareholders, for year ended December 31, 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2008, net loss attributable to SLM Corporation from discontinued operations was $143 million, or $.30 diluted loss from discontinued operations per common share attributable to SLM Corporation common shareholders, compared to a net income from discontinued operations of $6 million, or $.02 diluted earnings from discontinued operations per common share attributable to SLM Corporation common shareholders, for the year ended December 31, 2007. Pre tax loss from continuing operations decreased by $350 million versus 2007 primarily due to a decrease in net losses on derivative and hedging activities from $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 to $445 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was primarily a result of the mark to market on the equity forward contracts in the fourth quarter of 2007. This increase in income was partially offset by a $367 million decrease in gains on student loan securitizations and a $175 million decrease in servicing and securitization revenue. There were no gains on student loan securitizations in the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to gains of $367 million in the year ago period. We did not complete any off balance sheet securitizations in the year ended December 31, 2008, versus one Private Education Loan securitization in 2007. In accordance with ASC 825, Financial Instruments, we elected the fair value option on all of the Residual Interests effective January 1, 2008. We made this election in order to simplify the accounting for Residual Interests by having all Residual Interests under one accounting model. Prior to this election, Residual Interests were accounted for either with changes in fair value recorded through other comprehensive income or with changes in fair value recorded through income. We reclassified the related accumulated other comprehensive income of $195 million into retained earnings and as a result equity was not impacted at transition on January 1, 2008. Changes in fair value of Residual Interests on and after January 1, 2008 are recorded through servicing and securitization income. We have not elected the fair value option for any other financial instruments at this time. Servicing and securitization revenue decreased by $175 million from $437 million in the year ended December 31, 2007 to $262 million in the year ended December 31, 2008. This decrease was primarily due to a $425 million unrealized mark to market loss recorded in 2008 compared to a $278 million unrealized mark to market loss in the prior year, which included both impairment and an unrealized mark to market gain recorded under ASC 815 15, Embedded Derivatives. The increase in the unrealized mark to market loss in 2008 versus 2007 was primarily due to increases in the discount rates used to value the Residual Interests. See LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Securitization Activities Residual Interest in Securitized Receivables for further discussion of the factors impacting the fair values. 40 Net interest income after provisions for loan losses increased by $72 million in the year ended December 31, 2008 from the prior year. This increase was due to a $295 million decrease in provisions for loan losses, offset by a $223 million decrease in net interest income. The decrease in net interest income was primarily due to a decrease in the student loan spread (see LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT Net Interest Income Net Interest Margin On Balance Sheet) and an increase in the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities Fees, partially offset by a $25 billion increase in the average balance of on balance sheet student loans. The decrease in provisions for loan losses relates to the higher provision amounts in the fourth quarter of 2007 for Private Education Loans, FFELP loans and mortgage loans, primarily due to a weakening U.S. economy. The significant provision in the fourth quarter of 2007 primarily related to the non traditional portfolio which was particularly impacted by the weakening U.S. economy (see LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT Private Education Loan Losses Private Education Loan Delinquencies and Forbearance and Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses). For the year ended December 31, 2008, contingency fee, collections and guarantor servicing fee revenue totaled $589 million, a $123 million decrease from $712 million in the prior year. This decrease was primarily the result of $111 million of impairment related to our non mortgage purchased paper subsidiary recorded in 2008 compared to $17 million in 2007. The increase in impairment is a result of the impact of the economy on the ability to collect on these assets (see ASSET PERFORMANCE GROUP BUSINESS SEGMENT). Losses on loans and securities, net, totaled $186 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, a $91 million increase from $95 million incurred in the year ended December 31, 2007. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2008, these losses were primarily the result of our repurchase of delinquent Private Education Loans from our off balance sheet securitization trusts. When Private Education Loans in our off balance sheet securitization trusts that settled before September 30, 2005 became 180 days delinquent, we previously exercised our contingent call option to repurchase these loans at par value out of the trusts and recorded a loss for the difference in the par value paid and the fair market value of the loans at the time of purchase. We do not hold the contingent call option for any trusts that settled after September 30, 2005. Beginning in October 2008, we decided to no longer exercise our contingent call option. The loss in the fourth quarter of 2008 primarily relates to the sale of approximately $1.0 billion FFELP loans to ED under the ECASLA, which resulted in a $53 million loss. See LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES ED Funding Programs for a further discussion. Restructuring expenses of $83 million and $23 million were recognized in the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, as previously discussed. Operating expenses totaled $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The year over year reduction is primarily due to our cost reduction efforts discussed above. Of these amounts, $86 million and $98 million, respectively, relate to amortization and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets for continuing operations. Income tax (benefit) from continuing operations was $(76) million in the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to income tax expense of $408 million in the prior year resulting in effective tax rates of 54 percent and (83) percent. The movement in the effective tax rate in 2008 compared with the prior year was primarily driven by the permanent tax impact of excluding non taxable gains and losses on equity forward contracts which were marked to market through earnings under ASC 815 in 2007. Also contributing to the movement was the impact of significantly lower reported pre tax loss in 2008 and the resulting changes in the proportion of income subject to federal and state taxes. For additional information, see Note 19, Income Taxes, to the consolidated financial statements. Net loss attributable to SLM Corporation from discontinued operations was $143 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to net income of $6 million for the prior year. As discussed above, the Company sold all of the assets in its Purchased Paper Mortgage/Properties business in the fourth quarter of 2009. In 2008, the Company incurred $161 million of after tax asset impairments associated with this business line compared to the prior year, during which the Company incurred $2 million of after tax asset impairments. 41 Other Income The following table summarizes the components of Other income in the consolidated statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Gains on debt repurchases $ 536 $ 64 $ Late fees and forbearance fees 146 143 136 Asset servicing and other transaction fees 112 108 110 Loan servicing fees 53 26 26 Foreign currency translation gains (losses) 23 (31 ) (3 ) Gains on sales of mortgages and other loan fees 3 11 Other 59 79 105 Total other income $ 929 $ 392 $ 385 The change in other income over the year ago periods presented is primarily the result of the gains on debt repurchases. The Company began repurchasing its outstanding debt in the second quarter of 2008. The Company repurchased $3.4 billion and $1.9 billion face amount of its senior unsecured notes for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Since the second quarter of 2008, the Company has repurchased $5.3 billion face amount of its senior unsecured notes in the aggregate, with maturity dates ranging from 2008 to 2016. BUSINESS SEGMENTS The results of operations of the Companys Lending and APG operating segments are presented below. These defined business segments operate in distinct business environments and are considered reportable segments under ASC 280, Segment Reporting, based on quantitative thresholds applied to the Companys financial statements. In addition, we provide other complementary products and services, including Guarantor Servicing and Loan Servicing, through smaller operating segments that do not meet such thresholds and are aggregated in the Corporate and Other reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. The management reporting process measures the performance of the Companys operating segments based on the management structure of the Company as well as the methodology used by management to evaluate performance and allocate resources. In accordance with the Rules and Regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), we prepare financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In addition to evaluating the Companys GAAP based financial information, management, including the Companys chief operation decision makers, evaluates the performance of the Companys operating segments based on their profitability on a basis that, as allowed under ASC 280, differs from GAAP. We refer to managements basis of evaluating our segment results as Core Earnings presentations for each business segment and we refer to these performance measures in our presentations with credit rating agencies and lenders. Accordingly, information regarding the Companys reportable segments is provided herein based on Core Earnings, which are discussed in detail below. Our Core Earnings are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Core Earnings net income reflects only current period adjustments to GAAP net income as described below. Unlike financial accounting, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting and as a result, our management reporting is not necessarily comparable with similar information for any other financial institution. The Companys operating segments are defined by the products and services they offer or the types of customers they serve, and they reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by management. Intersegment revenues and expenses are netted within the appropriate financial statement line items consistent with the income statement presentation 42 provided to management. Changes in management structure or allocation methodologies and procedures may result in changes in reported segment financial information. Core Earnings are the primary financial performance measures used by management to develop the Companys financial plans, track results, and establish corporate performance targets and incentive compensation. While Core Earnings are not a substitute for reported results under GAAP, the Company relies on Core Earnings in operating its business because Core Earnings permit management to make meaningful period to period comparisons of the operational and performance indicators that are most closely assessed by management. Management believes this information provides additional insight into the financial performance of the core business activities of our operating segments. Accordingly, the tables presented below reflect Core Earnings which are reviewed and utilized by management to manage the business for each of the Companys reportable segments. A further discussion regarding Core Earnings is included under Limitations of Core Earnings and Pre tax Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP by Business Segment. The LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT section includes all discussion of income and related expenses associated with the net interest margin, the student loan spread and its components, the provisions for loan losses, and other fees earned on our Managed portfolio of student loans. The APG BUSINESS SEGMENT section reflects the fees earned and expenses incurred in providing accounts receivable management and collection services. Our CORPORATE AND OTHER BUSINESS SEGMENT section includes our remaining fee businesses and other corporate expenses that do not pertain directly to the primary operating segments identified above. 43 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Corporate Lending APG and Other Interest income: FFELP Stafford and Other Student Loans $ 1,282 $ $ FFELP Consolidation Loans 1,645 Private Education Loans 2,254 Other loans 56 Cash and investments 9 20 Total interest income 5,246 20 Total interest expense 2,971 19 15 Net interest income (loss) 2,275 (19 ) 5 Less: provisions for loan losses 1,564 Net interest income (loss) after provisions for loan losses 711 (19 ) 5 Contingency fee revenue 296 Collections revenue 50 Guarantor serving fees 136 Other income 974 215 Total other income 974 346 351 Restructuring expenses 10 1 3 Operating expenses 581 315 284 Total expenses 591 316 287 Income from continuing operations, before income tax expense 1,094 11 69 Income tax expense(1) 388 7 24 Net income from continuing operations 706 4 45 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (157 ) Net income (loss) 706 (153 ) 45 Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 1 Core Earnings net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation $ 706 $ (154 ) $ 45 Economic Floor Income (net of tax) not included in Core Earnings $ 205 $ $ (1) Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segment. Core Earnings net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations, net of tax $ 706 $ 3 $ 45 Discontinued operations, net of tax (157 ) Core Earnings net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation $ 706 $ (154 ) $ 45 44 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Corporate Lending APG and Other Interest income: FFELP Stafford and Other Student Loans $ 2,216 $ $ FFELP Consolidation Loans 3,748 Private Education Loans 2,752 Other loans 83 Cash and investments 304 25 Total interest income 9,103 25 Total interest expense 6,665 25 19 Net interest income (loss) 2,438 (25 ) 6 Less: provisions for loan losses 1,029 Net interest income (loss) after provisions for loan losses 1,409 (25 ) 6 Contingency fee revenue 340 Collections revenue 129 Guarantor serving fees 121 Other income 180 199 Total other income 180 469 320 Restructuring expenses 49 11 23 Operating expenses 583 389 256 Total expenses 632 400 279 Income from continuing operations, before income tax expense 957 44 47 Income tax expense(1) 338 23 17 Net income from continuing operations 619 21 30 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (140 ) Net income (loss) 619 (119 ) 30 Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 4 Core Earnings net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation $ 619 $ (123 ) $ 30 Economic Floor Income (net of tax) not included in Core Earnings $ 55 $ $ (1) Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segment. Core Earnings net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations, net of tax $ 619 $ 17 $ 30 Discontinued operations, net of tax (140 ) Core Earnings net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation $ 619 $ (123 ) $ 30 45 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Corporate Lending APG and Other Interest income: FFELP Stafford and Other Student Loans $ 2,848 $ $ FFELP Consolidation Loans 5,522 Private Education Loans 2,835 Other loans 106 Cash and investments 868 21 Total interest income 12,179 21 Total interest expense 9,597 27 21 Net interest income (loss) 2,582 (27 ) Less: provisions for loan losses 1,394 1 Net interest income (loss) after provisions for loan losses 1,188 (27 ) (1 ) Contingency fee revenue 336 Collections revenue 217 Guarantor serving fees 156 Other income 194 218 Total other income 194 553 374 Restructuring expenses 19 2 2 Operating expenses 690 361 339 Total expenses 709 363 341 Income from continuing operations, before income tax expense 673 163 32 Income tax expense(1) 249 60 12 Net income from continuing operations 424 103 20 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 15 Net income 424 118 20 Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 2 Core Earnings net income attributable to SLM Corporation $ 424 $ 116 $ 20 Economic Floor Income (net of tax) not included in Core Earnings $ 8 $ $ (1) Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segment. Core Earnings net income attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations, net of tax $ 424 $ 101 $ 20 Discontinued operations, net of tax 15 Core Earnings net income attributable to SLM Corporation $ 424 $ 116 $ 20 46 Limitations of Core Earnings While GAAP provides a uniform, comprehensive basis of accounting, for the reasons described above, management believes that Core Earnings are an important additional tool for providing a more complete understanding of the Companys results of operations. Nevertheless, Core Earnings are subject to certain general and specific limitations that investors should carefully consider. For example, as stated above, unlike financial accounting, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting. Our Core Earnings are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Unlike GAAP, Core Earnings reflect only current period adjustments to GAAP. Accordingly, the Companys Core Earnings presentation does not represent a comprehensive basis of accounting. Investors, therefore, may not compare our Companys performance with that of other financial services companies based upon Core Earnings. Core Earnings results are only meant to supplement GAAP results by providing additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely used by management, the Companys board of directors, rating agencies and lenders to assess performance. Other limitations arise from the specific adjustments that management makes to GAAP results to derive Core Earnings results. For example, in reversing the unrealized gains and losses that result from ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging, on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge treatment, as well as on derivatives that do qualify but are in part ineffective because they are not perfect hedges, we focus on the long term economic effectiveness of those instruments relative to the underlying hedged item and isolate the effects of interest rate volatility and changing credit spreads on the fair value of such instruments during the period. Under GAAP, the effects of these factors on the fair value of the derivative instruments (but not on the underlying hedged item) tend to show more volatility in the short term. While our presentation of our results on a Core Earnings basis provides important information regarding the performance of our Managed portfolio, a limitation of this presentation is that we are presenting the ongoing spread income on loans that have been sold to a trust managed by us. While we believe that our Core Earnings presentation presents the economic substance of our Managed loan portfolio, it understates earnings volatility from securitization gains. Our Core Earnings results exclude certain Floor Income, which is real cash income, from our reported results and therefore may understate earnings in certain periods. Managements financial planning and valuation of operating results, however, does not take into account Floor Income because of its inherent uncertainty, except when it is Fixed Rate Floor Income that is economically hedged through Floor Income Contracts. Pre tax Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP by Business Segment Our Core Earnings are the primary financial performance measures used by management to evaluate performance and to allocate resources. Accordingly, financial information is reported to management on a Core Earnings basis by reportable segment, as these are the measures used regularly by our chief operating decision makers. Our Core Earnings are used in developing our financial plans and tracking results and also in establishing corporate performance targets and incentive compensation. Management believes this information provides additional insight into the financial performance of the Companys core business activities. Core Earnings net income reflects only current period adjustments to GAAP net income, as described in the more detailed discussion of the differences between Core Earnings and GAAP that follows, which includes further detail on each specific adjustment required to reconcile our Core Earnings segment presentation to our GAAP earnings. 47 Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Corporate Corporate Corporate Lending APG and Other Lending APG and Other Lending APG and Other Core Earnings adjustments: Net impact of securitization accounting $ (201 ) $ $ $ (442 ) $ $ $ 247 $ $ Net impact of derivative accounting (306 ) (560 ) 217 (1,558 ) Net impact of Floor Income 129 (102 ) (169 ) Net impact of acquired intangibles (13 ) (6 ) (57 ) (53 ) (22 ) (14 ) (55 ) (22 ) (29 ) Total Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP, pre tax(1) $ (391 ) $ (6 ) $ (57 ) $ (1,157 ) $ (22 ) $ (14 ) $ 240 $ (22 ) $ (1,587 ) (1) The net tax effect of total differences for combined segments is $181 million, $454 million and $(87) million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segments. 1) Securitization Accounting: Under GAAP, certain securitization transactions in our Lending operating segment are accounted for as sales of assets. Under Core Earnings for the Lending operating segment, we present all securitization transactions on a Core Earnings basis as long term non recourse financings. The upfront gains on sale from securitization transactions, as well as ongoing servicing and securitization revenue presented in accordance with GAAP, are excluded from Core Earnings and are replaced by interest income, provisions for loan losses, and interest expense as earned or incurred on the securitization loans and debt. We also exclude transactions with our off balance sheet trusts from Core Earnings as they are considered intercompany transactions on a Core Earnings basis. The following table summarizes Core Earnings securitization adjustments for the Lending operating segment for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Core Earnings securitization adjustments: Net interest income on securitized loans, before provisions for loan losses and before intercompany transactions $ (942 ) $ (872 ) $ (818 ) Provisions for loan losses 445 309 380 Net interest income on securitized loans, after provisions for loan losses, before intercompany transactions (497 ) (563 ) (438 ) Intercompany transactions with off balance sheet trusts 1 (141 ) (119 ) Net interest income on securitized loans, after provisions for loan losses (496 ) (704 ) (557 ) Gains on student loan securitizations 367 Servicing and securitization revenue 295 262 437 Total Core Earnings securitization adjustments(1) $ (201 ) $ (442 ) $ 247 (1) Negative amounts are subtracted from Core Earnings net income to arrive at GAAP net income and positive amounts are added to Core Earnings net income to arrive at GAAP net income. Intercompany transactions with off balance sheet trusts in the above table relate primarily to losses that result from the repurchase of delinquent loans from our off balance sheet securitization trusts. When Private Education Loans in our securitization trusts settling before September 30, 2005 became 180 days delinquent, we previously exercised our contingent call option to repurchase these loans at par value out of the trust and recorded a loss for the difference in the par value paid and the fair market value of the loan at the time of purchase. We do not hold the contingent call option for any trusts settled after September 30, 2005. In October 2008, the Company decided to no longer exercise its contingent call option. 48 2) Derivative Accounting: Core Earnings exclude periodic unrealized gains and losses that are caused primarily by the one sided mark to market derivative valuations prescribed by ASC 815 on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge treatment under GAAP. These unrealized gains and losses occur in our Lending operating segment. In our Core Earnings presentation, we recognize the economic effect of these hedges, which generally results in any cash paid or received being recognized ratably as an expense or revenue over the hedged items life. ASC 815 requires that changes in the fair value of derivative instruments be recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria, as specified by ASC 815, are met. We believe that our derivatives are effective economic hedges, and as such, are a critical element of our interest rate risk management strategy. However, some of our derivatives, primarily Floor Income Contracts and certain basis swaps, do not qualify for hedge treatment as defined by ASC 815, and the stand alone derivative must be marked to market in the income statement with no consideration for the corresponding change in fair value of the hedged item. The gains and losses described in Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net are primarily caused by interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate volatility and changing credit spreads during the period, as well as the volume and term of derivatives not receiving hedge treatment. Our Floor Income Contracts are written options that must meet more stringent requirements than other hedging relationships to achieve hedge effectiveness under ASC 815. Specifically, our Floor Income Contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment because the pay down of principal of the student loans underlying the Floor Income embedded in those student loans does not exactly match the change in the notional amount of our written Floor Income Contracts. Under ASC 815, the upfront payment is deemed a liability and changes in fair value are recorded through income throughout the life of the contract. The change in the value of Floor Income Contracts is primarily caused by changing interest rates that cause the amount of Floor Income earned on the underlying student loans and paid to the counterparties to vary. This is economically offset by the change in value of the student loan portfolio, including our Retained Interests, earning Floor Income but that offsetting change in value is not recognized under ASC 815. We believe the Floor Income Contracts are economic hedges because they effectively fix the amount of Floor Income earned over the contract period, thus eliminating the timing and uncertainty that changes in interest rates can have on Floor Income for that period. Prior to ASC 815, we accounted for Floor Income Contracts as hedges and amortized the upfront cash compensation ratably over the lives of the contracts. Basis swaps are used to convert floating rate debt from one floating interest rate index to another to better match the interest rate characteristics of the assets financed by that debt. We primarily use basis swaps to change the index of our floating rate debt to better match the cash flows of our student loan assets that are primarily indexed to a commercial paper, Prime or Treasury bill index. In addition, we use basis swaps to convert debt indexed to the Consumer Price Index to three month month LIBOR debt. ASC 815 requires that when using basis swaps, the change in the cash flows of the hedge effectively offset both the change in the cash flows of the asset and the change in the cash flows of the liability. Our basis swaps hedge variable interest rate risk; however, they generally do not meet this effectiveness test because the index of the swap does not exactly match the index of the hedged assets as required by ASC 815. Additionally, some of our FFELP loans can earn at either a variable or a fixed interest rate depending on market interest rates. We also have basis swaps that do not meet the ASC 815 effectiveness test that economically hedge off balance sheet instruments. As a result, under GAAP, these swaps are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value reflected currently in the income statement. The table below quantifies the adjustments for derivative accounting under ASC 815 on our net income for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 when compared with the accounting principles employed in all years prior to the ASC 815 implementation. 49 Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Core Earnings derivative adjustments: Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net, included in other income(1) $ (604 ) $ (445 ) $ (1,361 ) Less: Realized (gains) losses on derivative and hedging activities, net(1) 322 (107 ) 18 Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net (282 ) (552 ) (1,343 ) Other pre ASC 815 accounting adjustments (24 ) (8 ) 2 Total net impact of ASC 815 derivative accounting(2) $ (306 ) $ (560 ) $ (1,341 ) (1) See Reclassification of Realized Gains (Losses) on Derivative and Hedging Activities below for a detailed breakdown of the components of realized losses on derivative and hedging activities. (2) Negative amounts are subtracted from Core Earnings net income to arrive at GAAP net income and positive amounts are added to Core Earnings net income to arrive at GAAP net income. Reclassification of Realized Gains (Losses) on Derivative and Hedging Activities ASC 815 requires net settlement income/expense on derivatives and realized gains/losses related to derivative dispositions (collectively referred to as realized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities) that do not qualify as hedges under ASC 815 to be recorded in a separate income statement line item below net interest income. The table below summarizes the realized losses on derivative and hedging activities and the associated reclassification on a Core Earnings basis for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Reclassification of realized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities: Net settlement expense on Floor Income Contracts reclassified to net interest income $ (717 ) $ (488 ) $ (67 ) Net settlement income (expense) on interest rate swaps reclassified to net interest income 412 563 47 Foreign exchange derivatives gains/(losses) reclassified to other income (15 ) 11 Net realized gains (losses) on terminated derivative contracts reclassified to other income (2 ) 21 2 Total reclassifications of realized (gains)losses on derivative and hedging activities (322 ) 107 (18 ) Add: Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net(1) (282 ) (552 ) (1,343 ) Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net $ (604 ) $ (445 ) $ (1,361 ) (1) Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net comprises the following unrealized mark to market gains (losses): Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Floor Income Contracts $ 483 $ (529 ) $ (209 ) Basis swaps (413 ) (239 ) 360 Foreign currency hedges (255 ) 328 73 Equity forward contracts (1,558 ) Other (97 ) (112 ) (9 ) Total unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net $ (282 ) $ (552 ) $ (1,343 ) 50 Unrealized gains and losses on Floor Income Contracts are primarily caused by changes in interest rates and the forward interest rate curve. In general, an increase in interest rates, or a steepening of the forward interest rate curve, results in an unrealized gain and vice versa. Unrealized gains and losses on basis swaps result from changes in the spread between indices and on changes in the forward interest rate curves that impact basis swaps hedging repricing risk between quarterly reset debt and daily reset assets. Unrealized gains (losses) on foreign currency hedges are primarily the result of ineffectiveness on cross currency interest rate swaps hedging foreign currency denominated debt related to differences between forward and spot foreign currency exchange rates. 3) Floor Income: The timing and amount (if any) of Floor Income earned in our Lending operating segment is uncertain and in excess of expected spreads. Therefore, we only include such income in Core Earnings when it is Fixed Rate Floor Income that is economically hedged. We employ derivatives, primarily Floor Income Contracts, to economically hedge Floor Income. As discussed above in Derivative Accounting, these derivatives do not qualify as effective accounting hedges and, therefore, under GAAP, they are marked to market through the gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net line in the consolidated statement of income with no offsetting gain or loss recorded for the economically hedged items. For Core Earnings, we reverse the fair value adjustments on the Floor Income Contracts economically hedging Floor Income and include in income the amortization of net premiums received on contracts economically hedging Fixed Rate Floor Income. The following table summarizes the Floor Income adjustments in our Lending operating segment for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Core earnings Floor Income adjustments: Floor Income earned on Managed loans, net of payments on Floor Income Contracts $ 286 $ 69 $ Amortization of net premiums on Floor Income Contracts and futures in net interest income (157 ) (171 ) (169 ) Total Core Earnings Floor Income adjustments(1) $ 129 $ (102 ) $ (169 ) (1) Negative amounts are subtracted from Core Earnings net income to arrive at GAAP net income and positive amounts are added to Core Earnings net income to arrive at GAAP net income. (2) The following table summarizes the amount of Economic Floor Income earned during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 that is not included in Core Earnings net income: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Floor Income earned on Managed loans, net of payments on Floor Income Contracts, not included in Core Earnings $ 286 $ 69 $ Amortization of net premiums on Variable Rate Floor Income Contracts not included in Core Earnings 40 20 13 Amortization of net premiums on Fixed Rate Floor Income Contracts included in Core Earnings 157 171 169 Total Economic Floor Income earned 483 260 182 Less: Amortization of net premiums on Fixed Rate Floor Income Contracts included in Core Earnings (157 ) (171 ) (169 ) Total Economic Floor Income earned, not included in Core Earnings $ 326 $ 89 $ 13 51 4) Acquired Intangibles: Our Core Earnings exclude goodwill and intangible impairment and the amortization of acquired intangibles. The following table summarizes the goodwill and acquired intangible adjustments for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Core Earnings goodwill and acquired intangibles adjustments: Goodwill and intangible impairment and the amortization of acquired intangibles from continuing operations $ (75 ) $ (86 ) $ (98 ) Goodwill and intangible impairment and the amortization of acquired intangibles from discontinued operations, net of tax (1 ) (3 ) (8 ) Total Core Earnings acquired intangibles adjustments $ (76 ) $ (89 ) $ (106 ) (1) Negative amounts are subtracted from Core Earnings net income to arrive at GAAP net income and positive amounts are added to Core Earnings net income to arrive at GAAP net income. Our Core Earnings exclude goodwill and intangible impairment and the amortization of acquired intangibles. These amounts totaled $76 million, $89 million and $106 million after tax effecting the amounts related to discontinued operations. The pre tax amounts totaled $76 million, $91 million and $112 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. In 2009, $37 million of intangible assets primarily related to Guarantor Servicing were impaired as a result of the legislative uncertainty surrounding the role of Guarantors in the future. As discussed in ASSET PERFORMANCE GROUP BUSINESS SEGMENT, the Company decided to wind down its purchased paper businesses. This decision resulted in $36 million of impairment of intangible assets for the year ended December 31, 2008, of which $28 million related to the impairment of two trade names and $8 million related to certain banking customer relationships. In 2007, we recognized impairments related principally to our mortgage origination and mortgage purchased paper businesses, including approximately $20 million of goodwill and $10 million of value attributable to certain banking relationships. In connection with our acquisition of Southwest Student Services Corporation and Washington Transferee Corporation, we acquired certain tax exempt bonds that enabled us to earn a 9.5 percent SAP rate on student loans funded by those bonds in indentured trusts. In 2007, we also recognized intangible impairments of $9 million, due to changes in projected interest rates used to initially value the intangible asset and to a regulatory change that restricts the loans on which we are entitled to earn a 9.5 percent yield. LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT In our Lending business segment, we originate and acquire federally guaranteed student loans and Private Education Loans, which are not federally guaranteed. Typically, a Private Education Loan is made in conjunction with a FFELP Stafford Loan and as a result is marketed through the same marketing channels as FFELP loans. While FFELP loans and Private Education Loans have different overall risk profiles due to the federal guarantee of the FFELP loans, they currently share many of the same characteristics such as similar repayment terms, the same marketing channel and sales force, and are originated and serviced on the same servicing platform. Finally, where possible, the borrower receives a single bill for both FFELP and Private Education Loans. On a Managed Basis, the Company had $107.2 billion and $127.2 billion as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, of FFELP loans indexed to three month financial commercial paper rate (CP) funded with debt indexed to LIBOR. As a result of the turmoil in the capital markets, the historically tight spread between CP and LIBOR began to widen dramatically in the fourth quarter of 2008. It subsequently reverted to more normal levels beginning in the third quarter of 2009 and has been stable since then. For the fourth quarter of 2008, ED announced that for purposes of calculating the FFELP loan index from October 27, 2008 to the end of the fourth quarter of 2008, the Federal Reserves Commercial Paper Funding Facility rates (CPFF) would be used for those days in which no published CP rate was available. This resulted in a CP/LIBOR spread of 21 basis points in the fourth quarter of 2008. The CP/LIBOR spread would 52 have been 62 basis points in the fourth quarter of 2008 if ED had not addressed this issue by using the CPFF. ED decided that no such correction was required during 2009. This resulted in a CP/LIBOR spread of 52 basis points, 45 basis points, 13 basis points and 6 basis points in the first, second, third and fourth quarters of 2009, respectively, (29 basis points for the full year of 2009) compared to the CP/LIBOR spread of 21 basis points in the fourth quarter of 2008 and the historic average spread through the third quarter of 2008 of approximately 10 basis points. Core Earnings net interest income would have been $139 million, $105 million and $5 million higher in the first, second and third quarters of 2009, respectively, at a historical CP/LIBOR spread of 10 basis points. Because of the low interest rate environment, the Company earned additional Economic Floor Income not included in Core Earnings of $126 million, $141 million, and $36 million in the first, second and third quarters of 2009, respectively. Although we exclude these amounts from our Core Earnings presentation, the levels earned in 2009 quarters can be viewed as offsets to the CP/LIBOR basis exposure in low interest rate environments where we earned Floor Income. Additionally, the index paid on borrowings under EDs Participation Program is based on the prior quarters CP rates, whereas the index earned on the underlying loans is based on the current quarters CP rates. The declines in CP rates during the first, second, third and fourth quarters of 2009 resulted in $40 million, $13 million, $6 million and $2 million of higher interest expense in the first, second, third and fourth quarters of 2009, respectively. An overview of this segment and recent developments that have significantly impacted this segment are included in the Item 1. Business section of this document. 53 The following table summarizes the Core Earnings results of operations for our Lending business segment. Years Ended December 31, % Increase (Decrease) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Core Earnings interest income: FFELP Stafford and Other Student Loans $ 1,282 $ 2,216 $ 2,848 (42 )% (22 )% FFELP Consolidation Loans 1,645 3,748 5,522 (56 ) (32 ) Private Education Loans 2,254 2,752 2,835 (18 ) (3 ) Other loans 56 83 106 (33 ) (22 ) Cash and investments 9 304 868 (97 ) (65 ) Total Core Earnings interest income 5,246 9,103 12,179 (42 ) (25 ) Total Core Earnings interest expense 2,971 6,665 9,597 (55 ) (31 ) Net Core Earnings interest income 2,275 2,438 2,582 (7 ) (6 ) Less: provisions for loan losses 1,564 1,029 1,394 (52 ) (26 ) Net Core Earnings interest income after provisions for loan losses 711 1,409 1,188 (50 ) 19 Other income 974 180 194 441 (7 ) Restructuring expenses 10 49 19 (80 ) 158 Operating expenses 581 583 690 (15 ) Total expenses 591 632 709 (6 ) (10 ) Income from continuing operations, before income tax expense 1,094 957 673 14 41 Income tax expense 388 338 249 15 35 Net income 706 619 424 14 45 Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interest Core Earnings net income attributable to SLM Corporation $ 706 $ 619 $ 424 14 % 45 % Economic Floor Income (net of tax) not included in Core Earnings $ 205 $ 55 $ 8 273 % 45 % Core Earnings net income attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations, net of tax $ 706 $ 619 $ 424 14 % 45 % Discontinued operations, net of tax Core Earnings net income attributable to SLM Corporation $ 706 $ 619 $ 424 14 % 45 % 54 Net Interest Income Changes in net interest income are primarily due to fluctuations in the student loan and other asset spread discussed below, the growth of our student loan portfolio, and changes in the level of cash and investments we hold on our balance sheet for liquidity purposes. Average Balance Sheets On Balance Sheet The following table reflects the rates earned on interest earning assets and paid on interest bearing liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. This table reflects the net interest margin for the entire Company for our on balance sheet assets. It is included in the Lending business segment discussion because the Lending business segment includes substantially all interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Balance Rate Balance Rate Balance Rate Average Assets FFELP Stafford and Other Student Loans $ 58,492 2.07 % $ 44,291 4.50 % $ 31,294 6.59 % FFELP Consolidation Loans 70,046 2.69 73,091 4.35 67,918 6.39 Private Education Loans 23,154 6.83 19,276 9.01 12,507 11.65 Other loans 561 9.98 955 8.66 1,246 8.49 Cash and investments 11,046 .24 9,279 2.98 12,710 5.57 Total interest earning assets 163,299 2.91 % 146,892 4.95 % 125,675 6.90 % Non interest earning assets 8,693 9,999 9,715 Total assets $ 171,992 $ 156,891 $ 135,390 Average Liabilities and Stockholders Equity Short term borrowings $ 44,485 1.84 % $ 36,059 4.73 % $ 16,385 5.74 % Long term borrowings 118,699 1.87 111,625 3.76 109,984 5.59 Total interest bearing liabilities 163,184 1.86 % 147,684 4.00 % 126,369 5.61 % Non interest bearing liabilities 3,719 3,797 4,272 Stockholders equity 5,089 5,410 4,749 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 171,992 $ 156,891 $ 135,390 Net interest margin 1.05 % .93 % 1.26 % 55 Rate/Volume Analysis On Balance Sheet The following rate/volume analysis shows the relative contribution of changes in interest rates and asset volumes. (Decrease) Increase Attributable to (Decrease) Change in Increase Rate Volume 2009 vs. 2008 Interest income $ (2,512 ) $ (3,386 ) $ 874 Interest expense (2,870 ) (3,534 ) 664 Net interest income $ 358 $ 148 $ 210 2008 vs. 2007 Interest income $ (1,404 ) $ (3,163 ) $ 1,759 Interest expense (1,181 ) (2,402 ) 1,221 Net interest income $ (223 ) $ (761 ) $ 538 Net Interest Margin On Balance Sheet The following table reflects the net interest margin of on balance sheet interest earning assets, before provisions for loan losses. (Certain percentages do not add or subtract down as they are based on average balances.) Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Student loan spread(1)(2) 1.42 % 1.28 % 1.44 % Other asset spread(1)(3) (1.96 ) (.27 ) (.16 ) Net interest margin, before the impact of 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees(1) 1.18 1.17 1.26 Less: 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees (.13 ) (.24 ) Net interest margin 1.05 % .93 % 1.26 % (1) Before commitment and liquidity fees associated with the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities, which are referred to as the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees (see LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Additional Funding Sources for General Corporate Purposes for a further discussion). (2) Composition of student loan spread: Student loan yield, before Floor Income 3.27 % 5.60 % 7.92 % Gross Floor Income .49 .28 .05 Consolidation Loan Rebate Fees (.48 ) (.55 ) (.63 ) Repayment Borrower Benefits (.09 ) (.11 ) (.12 ) Premium and discount amortization (.11 ) (.16 ) (.18 ) Student loan net yield 3.08 5.06 7.04 Student loan cost of funds (1.66 ) (3.78 ) (5.60 ) Student loan spread, before 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees 1.42 % 1.28 % 1.44 % (3) Comprised of investments, cash and other loans. 56 Student Loan Spread On Balance Sheet The student loan spread is impacted by changes in its various components, as reflected in footnote (2) to the Net Interest Margin On Balance Sheet table above. Gross Floor Income is impacted by interest rates and the percentage of the FFELP portfolio earning Floor Income. Floor Income Contracts used to economically hedge Gross Floor Income do not qualify as ASC 815 hedges and as a result the net settlements on such contracts are not recorded in net interest margin but rather in gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net line in the consolidated statements of income. The spread impact from Consolidation Loan Rebate Fees fluctuates as a function of the percentage of FFELP Consolidation Loans on our balance sheet. Repayment Borrower Benefits are generally impacted by the terms of the Repayment Borrower Benefits being offered as well as the payment behavior of the underlying loans. Premium and discount amortization is generally impacted by the prices previously paid for loans and amounts capitalized related to such purchases or originations. Premium and discount amortization is also impacted by prepayment behavior of the underlying loans. The student loan spread, before 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees, for the year ended December 31, 2009, increased 14 basis points from the prior year. The student loan spread was positively impacted by lower cost of funds related to the ED Conduit Program (See LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES ED Funding Programs), higher asset spreads earned on Private Education Loans originated during 2009 compared to prior years, an increase in Gross Floor Income and a lower cost of funds due to the impact of ASC 815 (discussed below). Partially offsetting these improvements to the student loan spread was a 18 basis point widening of the CP/LIBOR spread, higher credit spreads on the Companys ABS debt issued in 2008 and 2009 due to the current credit environment and lower spreads earned on FFELP loans funded through the ED Participation Program. The student loan spread for 2008, before 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees, decreased 16 basis points from 2007. The decrease was primarily due to an increase in our cost of funds, which is the result of both an increase in the credit spread on the Companys debt issued in the previous year as a result of the credit environment as well as due to the impact of ASC 815 (discussed below). This was partially offset by an increase in Floor Income due to a decrease in interest rates in 2008 compared to 2007. The cost of funds for on balance sheet student loans excludes the impact of basis swaps that are intended to economically hedge the re pricing and basis mismatch between our funding and student loan asset indices, but do not receive hedge accounting treatment under ASC 815. We use basis swaps to manage the basis risk associated with our interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities. These swaps generally do not qualify as accounting hedges and, as a result, are required to be accounted for in the gains (losses) on derivatives and hedging activities, net line on the income statement, as opposed to being accounted for in interest expense. As a result, these basis swaps are not considered in the calculation of the cost of funds in the table above. Therefore, in times of volatile movements of interest rates like those experienced in 2008 and 2009, the student loan spread can be volatile. See the Core Earnings Net Interest Margin table below, which reflects these basis swaps in interest expense and demonstrates the economic hedge effectiveness of these basis swaps. Other Asset Spread On Balance Sheet The other asset spread is generated from cash and investments (both restricted and unrestricted) primarily in our liquidity portfolio and other loans. The Company invests its liquidity portfolio primarily in short term securities with maturities of one week or less in order to manage counterparty credit risk and maintain available cash balances. The other asset spread decreased 169 basis points from 2008 to 2009, and decreased 11 basis points from 2007 to 2008. Changes in the other asset spread primarily relate to differences in the index basis and reset frequency between the asset indices and funding indices. A portion of this risk is hedged with derivatives that do not receive hedge accounting treatment under ASC 815 and will impact the other asset spread in a similar fashion as the impact to the on balance sheet student loan spread as discussed above. In volatile interest rate environments, these spreads may move significantly from period to period and differ from the Core Earnings basis other asset spread discussed below. 57 Net Interest Margin On Balance Sheet The net interest margin, before 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees, for 2009 increased 1 basis point from 2008 and decreased 9 basis points from 2007 to 2008. These changes primarily relate to the previously discussed changes in the on balance sheet student loan and other asset spreads. The student loan portfolio as a percentage of the overall interest earning asset portfolio did not change substantially between 2009 and 2008; however, the increase in the percentage between 2008 and 2007 increased the net interest margin by 7 basis points. This increase was more than offset for the reasons discussed above. See LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Additional Funding Sources for General Corporate Purposes Asset Backed Financing Facilities for a discussion of the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees and related extensions. Core Earnings Net Interest Margin The following table analyzes the earnings from our portfolio of Managed interest earning assets on a Core Earnings basis (see BUSINESS SEGMENTS Pre tax Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP by Business Segment). The Core Earnings Net Interest Margin presentation and certain components used in the calculation differ from the Net Interest Margin On Balance Sheet presentation. The Core Earnings presentation, when compared to our on balance sheet presentation, is different in that it: Includes the net interest margin related to our off balance sheet student loan securitization trusts. This includes any related fees or costs such as the Consolidation Loan Rebate Fees, premium/discount amortization and Repayment Borrower Benefits yield adjustments; Includes the reclassification of certain derivative net settlement amounts. The net settlements on certain derivatives that do not qualify as ASC 815 hedges are recorded as part of the gain (loss) on derivative and hedging activities, net line in the consolidated statements of income and are therefore not recognized in the on balance sheet student loan spread. Under this presentation, these gains and losses are reclassified to the income statement line item of the economically hedged item. For our Core Earnings net interest margin, this would primarily include: (a) reclassifying the net settlement amounts related to our written Floor Income Contracts to student loan interest income and (b) reclassifying the net settlement amounts related to certain of our basis swaps to debt interest expense; Excludes unhedged Floor Income and hedged Variable Rate Floor Income earned on the Managed student loan portfolio; and Includes the amortization of upfront payments on Fixed Rate Floor Income Contracts in student loan income that we believe are economically hedging the Floor Income. 58 The following table reflects the Core Earnings net interest margin, before provisions for loan losses. (Certain percentages do not add or subtract down as they are based on average balances.) Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Core Earnings basis student loan spread(1): FFELP loan spread .63 % .83 % .96 % Private Education Loan spread(2) 4.54 5.09 5.12 Total Core Earnings basis student loan spread(3) 1.39 1.63 1.67 Core Earnings basis other asset spread(1)(4) (.93 ) (.51 ) (.11 ) Core Earnings net interest margin, before 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees(1) 1.25 1.49 1.49 Less: 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees (.11 ) (.19 ) Core Earnings net interest margin(5) 1.14 % 1.30 % 1.49 % (1) Before commitment and liquidity fees associated with the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities, which are referred to as the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees (see LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Additional Funding Sources for General Corporate Purposes for a further discussion). (2) Core Earnings basis Private Education Loan Spread, before 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees and after provision for loan losses .66 % 2.41 % .41 % (3) Composition of Core Earnings basis student loan spread: Core Earnings basis student loan yield 3.43 % 5.77 % 8.12 % Consolidation Loan Rebate Fees (.47 ) (.52 ) (.57 ) Repayment Borrower Benefits (.09 ) (.11 ) (.11 ) Premium and discount amortization (.09 ) (.14 ) (.17 ) Core Earnings basis student loan net yield 2.78 5.00 7.27 Core Earnings basis student loan cost of funds (1.39 ) (3.37 ) (5.60 ) Core Earnings basis student loan spread, before 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees 1.39 % 1.63 % 1.67 % (4) Comprised of investments, cash and other loans (5) The average balances of our Managed interest earning assets for the respective periods are: FFELP loans $ 150,059 $ 141,647 $ 127,940 Private Education Loans 36,046 32,597 26,190 Total student loans 186,105 174,244 154,130 Other interest earning assets 12,897 12,403 17,455 Total Managed interest earning assets $ 199,002 $ 186,647 $ 171,585 Core Earnings Basis Student Loan Spread The Core Earnings basis student loan spread, before the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees, for 2009 decreased 24 basis points from 2008. The Core Earnings basis student loan spread was negatively impacted primarily by a 18 basis point widening of the CP/LIBOR spread, higher credit spreads on the Companys ABS debt issued in 2008 and 2009 due to the current credit environment and lower spreads earned on FFELP loans funded through the ED Participation Program. Partially offsetting these decreases to the student loan spread are lower cost of funds related to the ED Conduit Program (See LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES ED Funding Programs) and higher asset spreads earned on Private Education Loans originated during 2009 compared to prior years. 59 The Core Earnings basis student loan spread, before the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees, decreased 4 basis points from 2007 for 2008, primarily due to an increase in the Companys cost of funds, due to an increase in the credit spreads on the Companys debt issued during the past year due to the current credit environment. The decrease to the student loan spread was partially offset by the growth in the Private Education Loan portfolio which earns a higher margin than FFELP. The Core Earnings basis FFELP loan spread for 2009 declined from 2008 and 2007 primarily as a result of the increase in cost of funds previously discussed, as well as the mix of the FFELP portfolio shifting towards loans originated subsequent to October 1, 2007, which have lower yields as a result of the CCRAA. The Core Earnings basis Private Education Loan spread before provision for loan losses for 2009 decreased from 2008 primarily as a result of the increase in cost of funds previously discussed. The changes in the Core Earnings basis Private Education Loan spread after provision for loan losses for all periods presented was primarily due to the timing and amount of provision associated with our allowance for Private Education Loan Losses as discussed below (see Private Education Loan Losses Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses). Core Earnings Basis Other Asset Spread The Core Earnings basis other asset spread is generated from cash and investments (both restricted and unrestricted) primarily in our liquidity portfolio, and other loans. The Company invests its liquidity portfolio primarily in short term securities with maturities of one week or less in order to manage counterparty credit risk and maintain available cash balances. The Core Earnings basis other asset spread for 2009 decreased 42 basis points from 2008 and decreased 40 basis points from 2007 to 2008. Changes in this spread primarily relate to differences between the index basis and reset frequency of the asset indices and funding indices. In volatile interest rate environments, the asset and debt reset frequencies will lag each other. Changes in this spread are also a result of the increase in our cost of funds, as previously discussed. Core Earnings Net Interest Margin The Core Earnings net interest margin for 2009, before the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees, decreased 24 basis points from 2008 and remained constant from 2007 to 2008. These changes primarily relate to the previously discussed changes in the Core Earnings basis student loan and other asset spreads. The Managed student loan portfolio, as a percentage of the overall interest earning asset portfolio did not change substantially between 2009 and 2008; however, the increase in the percentage between 2008 and 2007 increased the net interest margin by 6 basis points. This increase was offset by the factors discussed above. See LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Additional Funding Sources for General Corporate Purposes Asset Backed Financing Facilities for a discussion of the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities fees and related extensions. 60 Summary of our Managed Student Loan Portfolio The following tables summarize the components of our Managed student loan portfolio and show the changing composition of our portfolio. Ending Managed Student Loan Balances, net December 31, 2009 FFELP FFELP Private Stafford and Consolidation Total Education Other(1) Loans FFELP Loans Total On balance sheet: In school $ 15,250 $ $ 15,250 $ 6,058 $ 21,308 Grace and repayment 36,543 67,235 103,778 18,198 121,976 Total on balance sheet, gross 51,793 67,235 119,028 24,256 143,284 On balance sheet unamortized premium/(discount) 986 1,201 2,187 (559 ) 1,628 On balance sheet receivable for partially charged off loans 499 499 On balance sheet allowance for losses (104 ) (57 ) (161 ) (1,443 ) (1,604 ) Total on balance sheet, net 52,675 68,379 121,054 22,753 143,807 Off balance sheet: In school 232 232 773 1,005 Grace and repayment 5,143 14,369 19,512 12,213 31,725 Total off balance sheet, gross 5,375 14,369 19,744 12,986 32,730 Off balance sheet unamortized premium/(discount) 139 438 577 (349 ) 228 Off balance sheet receivable for partially charged off loans 229 229 Off balance sheet allowance for losses (15 ) (10 ) (25 ) (524 ) (549 ) Total off balance sheet, net 5,499 14,797 20,296 12,342 32,638 Total Managed $ 58,174 $ 83,176 $ 141,350 $ 35,095 $ 176,445 % of on balance sheet FFELP 44 % 56 % 100 % % of Managed FFELP 41 % 59 % 100 % % of total 33 % 47 % 80 % 20 % 100 % (1) FFELP category is primarily Stafford Loans, but also includes federally guaranteed PLUS and HEAL Loans. 61 December 31, 2008 FFELP FFELP Private Stafford and Consolidation Total Education Other(1) Loans FFELP Loans Total On balance sheet: In school $ 18,961 $ $ 18,961 $ 7,972 $ 26,933 Grace and repayment 32,455 70,511 102,966 14,231 117,197 Total on balance sheet, gross 51,416 70,511 121,927 22,203 144,130 On balance sheet unamortized premium/(discount) 1,151 1,280 2,431 (535 ) 1,896 On balance sheet receivable for partially charged off loans 222 222 On balance sheet allowance for losses (91 ) (47 ) (138 ) (1,308 ) (1,446 ) Total on balance sheet, net 52,476 71,744 124,220 20,582 144,802 Off balance sheet: In school 473 473 1,629 2,102 Grace and repayment 6,583 15,078 21,661 12,062 33,723 Total off balance sheet, gross 7,056 15,078 22,134 13,691 35,825 Off balance sheet unamortized premium/(discount) 105 462 567 (361 ) 206 Off balance sheet receivable for partially charged off loans 92 92 Off balance sheet allowance for losses (18 ) (9 ) (27 ) (505 ) (532 ) Total off balance sheet, net 7,143 15,531 22,674 12,917 35,591 Total Managed $ 59,619 $ 87,275 $ 146,894 $ 33,499 $ 180,393 % of on balance sheet FFELP 42 % 58 % 100 % % of Managed FFELP 41 % 59 % 100 % % of total 33 % 48 % 81 % 19 % 100 % (1) FFELP category is primarily Stafford Loans, but also includes federally guaranteed PLUS and HEAL Loans. 62 Student Loan Average Balances (net of unamortized premium/discount) The following tables summarize the components of our Managed student loan portfolio and show the changing composition of our portfolio. Year Ended December 31, 2009 FFELP FFELP Private Stafford and Consolidation Education Other(1) Loans Total FFELP Loans Total On balance sheet $ 58,492 $ 70,046 $ 128,538 $ 23,154 $ 151,692 Off balance sheet 6,365 15,156 21,521 12,892 34,413 Total Managed $ 64,857 $ 85,202 $ 150,059 $ 36,046 $ 186,105 % of on balance sheet FFELP 46 % 54 % 100 % % of Managed FFELP 43 % 57 % 100 % % of total 35 % 46 % 81 % 19 % 100 % Year Ended December 31, 2008 FFELP FFELP Private Stafford and Consolidation Education Other(1) Loans Total FFELP Loans Total On balance sheet $ 44,291 $ 73,091 $ 117,382 $ 19,276 $ 136,658 Off balance sheet 8,299 15,966 24,265 13,321 37,586 Total Managed $ 52,590 $ 89,057 $ 141,647 $ 32,597 $ 174,244 % of on balance sheet FFELP 38 % 62 % 100 % % of Managed FFELP 37 % 63 % 100 % % of total 30 % 51 % 81 % 19 % 100 % Year Ended December 31, 2007 FFELP FFELP Private Stafford and Consolidation Education Other(1) Loans Total FFELP Loans Total On balance sheet $ 31,294 $ 67,918 $ 99,212 $ 12,507 $ 111,719 Off balance sheet 11,533 17,195 28,728 13,683 42,411 Total Managed $ 42,827 $ 85,113 $ 127,940 $ 26,190 $ 154,130 % of on balance sheet FFELP 32 % 68 % 100 % % of Managed FFELP 33 % 67 % 100 % % of total 28 % 55 % 83 % 17 % 100 % (1) FFELP category is primarily Stafford Loans, but also includes federally guaranteed PLUS and HEAL Loans. 63 Floor Income Managed Basis The following table analyzes the ability of the FFELP loans in our Managed portfolio to earn Floor Income after December 31, 2009 and 2008, based on interest rates as of those dates. December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Fixed Variable Fixed Variable Borrower Borrower Borrower Borrower (Dollars in billions) Rate Rate Total Rate Rate Total Student loans eligible to earn Floor Income: On balance sheet student loans $ 103.3 $ 14.9 $ 118.2 $ 104.9 $ 16.1 $ 121.0 Off balance sheet student loans 14.3 5.4 19.7 15.0 7.0 22.0 Managed student loans eligible to earn Floor Income 117.6 20.3 137.9 119.9 23.1 143.0 Less: post March 31, 2006 disbursed loans required to rebate Floor Income (64.9 ) (1.2 ) (66.1 ) (64.3 ) (1.3 ) (65.6 ) Less: economically hedged Floor Income Contracts (39.6 ) (39.6 ) (28.6 ) (28.6 ) Net Managed student loans eligible to earn Floor Income $ 13.1 $ 19.1 $ 32.2 $ 27.0 $ 21.8 $ 48.8 Net Managed student loans earning Floor Income as of December 31, $ 13.1 $ 3.0 $ 16.1 $ 4.3 $ 4.8 $ 9.1 We have sold Floor Income contracts to hedge the potential Floor Income from specifically identified pools of FFELP Consolidation Loans that are eligible to earn Floor Income. The following table presents a projection of the average Managed balance of FFELP Consolidation Loans for which Fixed Rate Floor Income has already been economically hedged through Floor Income Contracts for the period January 1, 2010 to September 30, 2013. These loans are both on and off balance sheet and the related hedges do not qualify under ASC 815 accounting as effective hedges. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in billions) 2010 2011 2012 2013 Average balance of FFELP Consolidation Loans whose Floor Income is economically hedged (Managed Basis) $ 37 $ 25 $ 16 $ 5 Private Education Loan Losses On Balance Sheet versus Managed Basis Presentation All Private Education Loans are initially acquired on balance sheet. The securitization of Private Education Loans prior to 2009 has been accounted for off balance sheet. For our Managed Basis presentation in the table below, when loans are securitized, we reduce the on balance sheet allowance for loan losses for amounts previously provided and then increase the allowance for loan losses for these loans off balance sheet, with the total of both on balance sheet and off balance sheet being the Managed Basis allowance for loan losses. When Private Education Loans in our securitized trusts settling before September 30, 2005 became 180 days delinquent, we previously exercised our contingent call option to repurchase these loans at par value out of the trust and recorded a loss for the difference in the par value paid and the fair market value of the loan at the time of purchase. Revenue is recognized over the anticipated remaining life of the loan based upon the amount and timing of anticipated cash flows. Beginning in October 2008, the Company decided to no longer exercise its contingent call option. On a Managed Basis, the losses recorded under GAAP for loans repurchased at day 180 were reversed and the full amount is charged off at day 212 of delinquency. We do not hold the contingent call option for any trusts settled after September 30, 2005. 64 When measured as a percentage of ending loans in repayment, the off balance sheet allowance for loan losses percentage is lower than the on balance sheet percentage because of the different mix and aging of loans on balance sheet and off balance sheet. Private Education Loan Delinquencies and Forbearance The table below presents our Private Education Loan delinquency trends as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Delinquencies have the potential to adversely impact earnings as they are an indication of the borrowers potential to possibly default and as a result require a higher loan loss reserve than loans in current status. Delinquent loans also require increased servicing and collection efforts, resulting in higher operating costs. On Balance Sheet Private Education Loan Delinquencies December 31, December 31, December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 8,910 $ 10,159 $ 8,151 Loans in forbearance(2) 967 862 974 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 12,421 86.4 % 9,748 87.2 % 6,236 88.5 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 647 4.5 551 4.9 306 4.3 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 340 2.4 296 2.6 176 2.5 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 971 6.7 587 5.3 329 4.7 Total Private Education Loans in repayment 14,379 100 % 11,182 100 % 7,047 100 % Total Private Education Loans, gross 24,256 22,203 16,172 Private Education Loan unamortized discount (559 ) (535 ) (468 ) Total Private Education Loans 23,697 21,668 15,704 Private Education Loan receivable for partially charged off loans 499 222 118 Private Education Loan allowance for losses (1,443 ) (1,308 ) (1,004 ) Private Education Loans, net $ 22,753 $ 20,582 $ 14,818 Percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 59.3 % 50.4 % 43.6 % Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 13.6 % 12.8 % 11.5 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 6.3 % 7.2 % 12.1 % (1) Loans for borrowers who may still be attending school or engaging in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation. (2) Loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period generally during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors, consistent with established loan program servicing policies and procedures. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. 65 Off Balance Sheet Private Education Loan Delinquencies December 31, December 31, December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 2,546 $ 3,461 $ 4,963 Loans in forbearance(2) 453 700 1,417 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 8,987 90.0 % 8,843 92.8 % 7,403 94.7 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 332 3.3 315 3.3 202 2.6 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 151 1.5 121 1.3 84 1.1 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 517 5.2 251 2.6 130 1.6 Total Private Education Loans in repayment 9,987 100 % 9,530 100 % 7,819 100 % Total Private Education Loans, gross 12,986 13,691 14,199 Private Education Loan unamortized discount (349 ) (361 ) (355 ) Total Private Education Loans 12,637 13,330 13,844 Private Education Loan receivable for partially charged off loans 229 92 28 Private Education Loan allowance for losses (524 ) (505 ) (362 ) Private Education Loans, net $ 12,342 $ 12,917 $ 13,510 Percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 76.9 % 69.6 % 55.1 % Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 10.0 % 7.2 % 5.3 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 4.3 % 6.8 % 15.3 % (1) Loans for borrowers who may still be attending school or engaging in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation. (2) Loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period generally during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors, consistent with established loan program servicing policies and procedures. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. 66 Managed Basis Private Education Loan Delinquencies December 31, December 31, December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 11,456 $ 13,620 $ 13,114 Loans in forbearance(2) 1,420 1,562 2,391 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 21,408 87.9 % 18,591 89.8 % 13,639 91.7 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 979 4.0 866 4.2 508 3.4 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 491 2.0 417 2.0 260 1.8 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 1,488 6.1 838 4.0 459 3.1 Total Private Education Loans in repayment 24,366 100 % 20,712 100 % 14,866 100 % Total Private Education Loans, gross 37,242 35,894 30,371 Private Education Loan unamortized discount (908 ) (896 ) (823 ) Total Private Education Loans 36,334 34,998 29,548 Private Education Loan receivable for partially charged off loans 728 314 146 Private Education Loan allowance for losses (1,967 ) (1,813 ) (1,366 ) Private Education Loans, net $ 35,095 $ 33,499 $ 28,328 Percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 65.4 % 57.7 % 48.9 % Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 12.1 % 10.2 % 8.3 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 5.5 % 7.0 % 13.9 % (1) Loans for borrowers who may still be attending school or engaging in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation. (2) Loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period generally during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors, consistent with established loan program servicing policies and procedures. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. 67 Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses The following table summarizes changes in the allowance for Private Education Loan losses for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Activity in Allowance for Private Education Loans On Balance Sheet Off Balance Sheet Managed Basis Years Ended December 31, Years Ended December 31, Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 Allowance at beginning of period $ 1,308 $ 1,004 $ 372 $ 505 $ 362 $ 86 $ 1,813 $ 1,366 $ 458 Provision for Private Education Loan losses 967 586 884 432 288 349 1,399 874 1,233 Charge offs (876 ) (320 ) (246 ) (423 ) (153 ) (79 ) (1,299 ) (473 ) (325 ) Reclassification of interest reserve(1) 44 38 10 8 54 46 Balance before securitization of Private Education Loans 1,443 1,308 1,010 524 505 356 1,967 1,813 1,366 Reduction for securitization of Private Education Loans (6 ) 6 Allowance at end of period $ 1,443 $ 1,308 $ 1,004 $ 524 $ 505 $ 362 $ 1,967 $ 1,813 $ 1,366 Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment 7.2 % 3.8 % 4.1 % 4.4 % 1.9 % 1.1 % 6.0 % 2.9 % 2.5 % Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment and forbearance 6.7 % 3.3 % 3.7 % 4.2 % 1.6 % .9 % 5.6 % 2.5 % 2.2 % Allowance as a percentage of the ending total loan balance(2) 5.8 % 5.8 % 6.2 % 4.0 % 3.7 % 2.5 % 5.2 % 5.0 % 4.5 % Allowance as a percentage of ending loans in repayment 10.0 % 11.7 % 14.2 % 5.2 % 5.3 % 4.6 % 8.1 % 8.8 % 9.2 % Average coverage of charge offs 1.6 4.1 4.1 1.2 3.3 4.6 1.5 3.8 4.2 Ending total loans(2) $ 24,755 $ 22,426 $ 16,290 $ 13,215 $ 13,782 $ 14,227 $ 37,970 $ 36,208 $ 30,517 Average loans in repayment $ 12,137 $ 8,533 $ 5,949 $ 9,597 $ 8,088 $ 7,305 $ 21,734 $ 16,621 $ 13,254 Ending loans in repayment $ 14,379 $ 11,182 $ 7,047 $ 9,987 $ 9,530 $ 7,819 $ 24,366 $ 20,712 $ 14,866 (1) Represents the additional allowance related to the amount of uncollectible interest reserved within interest income that is transferred in the period to the allowance for loan losses when interest is capitalized to a loans principal balance. Prior to 2008, the interest provision was reversed in interest income and then provided for through provision within the allowance for loan loss. For the year ended December 31, 2007, this amount was $21 million and $27 million on an On Balance Sheet Basis and a Managed Basis, respectively. (2) Ending total loans represents gross Private Education Loans, plus the receivable for partially charged off loans. 68 The following table provides the detail for our traditional and non traditional Managed Private Education Loans at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Non Non Non Traditional Traditional Total Traditional Traditional Total Traditional Traditional Total Ending total loans(1) $ 33,223 $ 4,747 $ 37,970 $ 31,101 $ 5,107 $ 36,208 $ 25,848 $ 4,669 $ 30,517 Ending loans in repayment 21,453 2,913 24,366 17,715 2,997 20,712 12,711 2,155 14,866 Private Education Loan allowance for losses 1,056 911 1,967 859 954 1,813 495 871 1,366 Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment 3.6 % 21.4 % 6.0 % 1.4 % 11.1 % 2.9 % 1.2 % 9.5 % 2.5 % Allowance as a percentage of ending total loan balance(1) 3.2 % 19.2 % 5.2 % 2.8 % 18.7 % 5.0 % 1.9 % 18.7 % 4.5 % Allowance as a percentage of ending loans in repayment 4.9 % 31.3 % 8.1 % 4.8 % 31.8 % 8.8 % 3.9 % 40.4 % 9.2 % Average coverage of charge offs 1.6 1.5 1.5 4.2 3.5 3.8 3.6 4.6 4.2 Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 9.5 % 31.4 % 12.1 % 7.1 % 28.9 % 10.2 % 5.2 % 26.3 % 8.3 % Delinquencies greater than 90 days as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 4.6 % 17.5 % 6.1 % 2.6 % 12.7 % 4.0 % 1.7 % 11.1 % 3.1 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 5.3 % 7.1 % 5.5 % 6.7 % 9.0 % 7.0 % 12.8 % 19.4 % 13.9 % Percentage of Private Education Loans with a cosigner 61 % 28 % 57 % 59 % 26 % 55 % 57 % 25 % 52 % Average FICO at origination 725 623 713 723 622 710 723 620 708 (1) Ending total loans represents gross Private Education Loans, plus the receivable for partially charged off loans. Managed provision expense for Private Education Loans was $1.4 billion in 2009 compared to $874 million for 2008 and $1.2 billion in 2007. The increase in provision expense from 2008 to 2009 is a result of the weak U.S. economy and the continued uncertainty surrounding the U.S. economy. As a result of the economy, provision expense has remained elevated since the fourth quarter of 2008. The Private Education Loan portfolio experienced a significant increase in delinquencies through the first quarter of 2009 (as of March 31, 2009, delinquencies as a percentage of loans in repayment was 13.4 percent); however, delinquencies as a percentage of loans in repayment declined in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009. The Company believes charge offs peaked in the third quarter of 2009 and will decline in future quarters as evidenced by the 33 percent decline in charge offs that occurred between the third and fourth quarters of 2009. The increase in charge off levels through the third quarter of 2009 was generally anticipated and was previously reflected in our allowance for loan losses. As of December 31, 2009, the Managed Private Education Loan allowance coverage of current year charge offs ratio was 1.5 compared to 3.8 as of December 31, 2008. This decrease in the allowance coverage ratio was expected as evidenced by the charge off activity during 2009, noted above. The allowance for loan losses as a percentage of ending Private Education Loans in repayment has remained relatively consistent at approximately 8.1 percent at December 31, 2009 and 8.8 percent at December 31, 2008. Managed Private Education Loan delinquencies as a percentage of loans in repayment increased from 10.2 percent to 12.1 percent from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009. Managed Private Education Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance decreased from 7.0 percent as of December 31, 2008 to 5.5 percent at December 31, 2009. As part of concluding that the allowance for loan losses for Private Education Loans is appropriate as of December 31, 2009, the Company analyzed changes in the key ratios disclosed in the tables above. 69 Managed provision expense decreased to $874 million in 2008 from $1.2 billion in 2007. In the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company recorded provision expense of $667 million for the Managed Private Education Loan portfolio. This significant level of provision expense, compared to prior and subsequent quarters, primarily related to the non traditional portion of the Companys Private Education Loan portfolio which the Company had been expanding over the past few years. The Company has terminated these non traditional loan programs because the performance of these loans was found to be materially different from original expectations. The non traditional portfolio is particularly impacted by the weakening U.S. economy and an underlying borrowers ability to repay. Forbearance involves granting the borrower a temporary cessation of payments (or temporary acceptance of smaller than scheduled payments) for a specified period of time. Using forbearance in this manner effectively extends the original term of the loan. Forbearance does not grant any reduction in the total repayment obligation (principal or interest). While a loan is in forbearance status, interest continues to accrue and is capitalized to principal when the loan re enters repayment status. Our forbearance policies include limits on the number of forbearance months granted consecutively and the total number of forbearance months granted over the life of the loan. In some instances, we require good faith payments before granting forbearance. Exceptions to forbearance policies are permitted when such exceptions are judged to increase the likelihood of ultimate collection of the loan. Forbearance as a collection tool is used most effectively when applied based on a borrowers unique situation, including historical information and judgments. We combine borrower information with a risk based segmentation model to assist in our decision making as to who will be granted forbearance based on our expectation as to a borrowers ability and willingness to repay their obligation. This strategy is aimed at mitigating the overall risk of the portfolio as well as encouraging cash resolution of delinquent loans. Forbearance may be granted to borrowers who are exiting their grace period to provide additional time to obtain employment and income to support their obligations, or to current borrowers who are faced with a hardship and request forbearance time to provide temporary payment relief. In these circumstances, a borrowers loan is placed into a forbearance status in limited monthly increments and is reflected in the forbearance status at month end during this time. At the end of their granted forbearance period, the borrower will enter repayment status as current and is expected to begin making their scheduled monthly payments on a go forward basis. Forbearance may also be granted to borrowers who are delinquent in their payments. In these circumstances, the forbearance cures the delinquency and the borrower is returned to a current repayment status. In more limited instances, delinquent borrowers will also be granted additional forbearance time. As we have obtained further experience about the effectiveness of forbearance, we have reduced the amount of time a loan will spend in forbearance, thereby increasing our ongoing contact with the borrower to encourage consistent repayment behavior once the loan is returned to a current repayment status. As a result, the balance of loans in a forbearance status as of month end has decreased over the course of 2008 and 2009. In addition, the monthly average amount of loans granted forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance declined to 5.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to the year ago quarter of 6.5 percent. As of December 31, 2009, 1.9 percent of loans in current status were delinquent as of the end of the prior month, but were granted a forbearance that made them current during December. 70 The table below reflects the historical effectiveness of using forbearance. Our experience has shown that three years after being granted forbearance for the first time, over 70 percent of the loans are current, paid in full or receiving an in school grace or deferment, and 14 percent have defaulted. The default experience associated with loans which utilize forbearance is considered in our allowance for loan losses. Tracking by First Time in Forbearance Compared to All Loans Entering Repayment Status distribution Status distribution 36 months after Status distribution 36 months after being granted 36 months after entering repayment for forbearance entering repayment loans never entering for the first time (all loans) forbearance In school/grace/deferment 8.4 % 8.2 % 3.2 % Current 52.2 57.9 63.9 Delinquent 31 60 days 3.2 2.0 .4 Delinquent 61 90 days 1.9 1.1 .2 Delinquent greater than 90 days 4.1 2.4 .3 Forbearance 6.0 4.1 Defaulted 14.3 7.5 4.9 Paid 9.9 16.8 27.1 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % The tables below show the composition and status of the Managed Private Education Loan portfolio aged by number of months in active repayment status (months for which a scheduled monthly payment was due). As indicated in the tables, the percentage of loans in forbearance status decreases the longer the loans have been in active repayment status. At December 31, 2009, loans in forbearance status as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance are 7.3 percent for loans that have been in active repayment status for less than 25 months. The percentage drops to 1.8 percent for loans that have been in active repayment status for more than 48 months. Approximately 86 percent of our Managed Private Education Loans in forbearance status have been in active repayment status less than 25 months. Monthly Scheduled Payments Due Not Yet in December 31, 2009 0 to 24 25 to 48 More than 48 Repayment Total Loans in school/grace/deferment $ $ $ $ 11,456 $ 11,456 Loans in forbearance 1,224 136 60 1,420 Loans in repayment current 13,122 5,194 3,092 21,408 Loans in repayment delinquent 31 60 days 779 135 65 979 Loans in repayment delinquent 61 90 days 386 71 34 491 Loans in repayment delinquent greater than 90 days 1,210 193 85 1,488 Total $ 16,721 $ 5,729 $ 3,336 $ 11,456 37,242 Unamortized discount (908 ) Receivable for partially charged off loans 728 Allowance for loan losses (1,967 ) Total Managed Private Education Loans, net $ 35,095 Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 7.3 % 2.4 % 1.8 % % 5.5 % 71 Monthly Scheduled Payments Due Not Yet in December 31, 2008 0 to 24 25 to 48 More than 48 Repayment Total Loans in school/grace/deferment $ $ $ $ 13,620 $ 13,620 Loans in forbearance 1,406 106 50 1,562 Loans in repayment current 12,551 3,798 2,242 18,591 Loans in repayment delinquent 31 60 days 728 93 45 866 Loans in repayment delinquent 61 90 days 351 44 22 417 Loans in repayment delinquent greater than 90 days 691 97 50 838 Total $ 15,727 $ 4,138 $ 2,409 $ 13,620 35,894 Unamortized discount (896 ) Receivable for partially charged off loans 314 Allowance for loan losses (1,813 ) Total Managed Private Education Loans, net $ 33,499 Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 8.9 % 2.6 % 2.1 % % 7.0 % Monthly Scheduled Payments Due Not Yet in December 31, 2007 0 to 24 25 to 48 More than 48 Repayment Total Loans in school/grace/deferment $ $ $ $ 13,114 $ 13,114 Loans in forbearance 2,228 118 45 2,391 Loans in repayment current 9,184 2,807 1,648 13,639 Loans in repayment delinquent 31 60 days 407 64 37 508 Loans in repayment delinquent 61 90 days 221 25 14 260 Loans in repayment delinquent greater than 90 days 376 52 31 459 Total $ 12,416 $ 3,066 $ 1,775 $ 13,114 30,371 Unamortized discount (823 ) Receivable for partially charged off loans 146 Allowance for loan losses (1,366 ) Total Managed Private Education Loans, net $ 28,328 Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 17.9 % 3.8 % 2.5 % % 13.9 % The table below stratifies the portfolio of Managed Private Education Loans in forbearance by the cumulative number of months the borrower has used forbearance as of the dates indicated. As detailed in the table below, 3 percent of loans currently in forbearance have cumulative forbearance of more than 24 months. December 31, December 31, December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Forbearance % of Forbearance % of Forbearance % of Balance Total Balance Total Balance Total Cumulative number of months borrower has used forbearance Up to 12 months $ 1,050 74 % $ 1,075 69 % $ 1,641 69 % 13 to 24 months 332 23 368 23 629 26 More than 24 months 38 3 119 8 121 5 Total $ 1,420 100 % $ 1,562 100 % $ 2,391 100 % 72 FFELP Loan Losses FFELP Delinquencies and Forbearance The tables below present our FFELP loan delinquency trends as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Delinquencies have the potential to adversely impact earnings as they are an indication of the borrowers potential to possibly default and as a result require a higher loan loss reserve than loans in current status. Delinquent loans also require increased servicing and collection efforts, resulting in higher operating costs. On Balance Sheet FFELP Loan Delinquencies December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 35,079 $ 39,270 $ 31,200 Loans in forbearance(2) 14,121 12,483 10,675 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 57,528 82.4 % 58,811 83.8 % 55,128 84.4 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 4,250 6.1 4,044 5.8 3,650 5.6 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 2,205 3.1 2,064 2.9 1,841 2.8 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 5,844 8.4 5,255 7.5 4,671 7.2 Total FFELP loans in repayment 69,827 100 % 70,174 100 % 65,290 100 % Total FFELP loans, gross 119,027 121,927 107,165 FFELP loan unamortized premium 2,187 2,431 2,259 Total FFELP loans 121,214 124,358 109,424 FFELP loan allowance for losses (161 ) (138 ) (89 ) FFELP loans, net $ 121,053 $ 124,220 $ 109,335 Percentage of FFELP loans in repayment 58.7 % 57.6 % 60.9 % Delinquencies as a percentage of FFELP loans in repayment 17.6 % 16.2 % 15.6 % FFELP loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 16.8 % 15.1 % 14.1 % (1) Loans for borrowers who may still be attending school or engaging in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation, as well as loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors. (2) Loans for borrowers who have used their allowable deferment time or do not qualify for deferment, that need additional time to obtain employment or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. 73 Off Balance Sheet FFELP Loan Delinquencies December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 3,312 $ 4,115 $ 5,060 Loans in forbearance(2) 2,726 2,821 2,950 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 11,304 82.5 % 12,441 81.9 % 13,703 79.2 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 804 5.9 881 5.8 1,017 5.9 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 439 3.2 484 3.2 577 3.3 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 1,160 8.4 1,392 9.1 1,999 11.6 Total FFELP loans in repayment 13,707 100 % 15,198 100 % 17,296 100 % Total FFELP loans, gross 19,745 22,134 25,306 FFELP loan unamortized premium 577 567 636 Total FFELP loans 20,322 22,701 25,942 FFELP loan allowance for losses (25 ) (27 ) (29 ) FFELP loans, net $ 20,297 $ 22,674 $ 25,913 Percentage of FFELP loans in repayment 69.4 % 68.7 % 68.4 % Delinquencies as a percentage of FFELP loans in repayment 17.5 % 18.1 % 20.8 % FFELP loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 16.6 % 15.7 % 14.6 % (1) Loans for borrowers who may still be attending school or engaging in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation, as well as loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors. (2) Loans for borrowers who have used their allowable deferment time or do not qualify for deferment, that need additional time to obtain employment or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. 74 Managed Basis FFELP Loan Delinquencies December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 38,391 $ 43,385 $ 36,260 Loans in forbearance(2) 16,847 15,304 13,625 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 68,832 82.4 % 71,252 83.5 % 68,831 83.3 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 5,054 6.0 4,925 5.8 4,667 5.7 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 2,644 3.2 2,548 2.9 2,418 2.9 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 7,004 8.4 6,647 7.8 6,670 8.1 Total FFELP loans in repayment 83,534 100 % 85,372 100 % 82,586 100 % Total FFELP loans, gross 138,772 144,061 132,471 FFELP loan unamortized premium 2,764 2,998 2,895 Total FFELP loans 141,536 147,059 135,366 FFELP loan allowance for losses (186 ) (165 ) (118 ) FFELP loans, net $ 141,350 $ 146,894 $ 135,248 Percentage of FFELP loans in repayment 60.2 % 59.3 % 62.3 % Delinquencies as a percentage of FFELP loans in repayment 17.6 % 16.5 % 16.7 % FFELP loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 16.8 % 15.2 % 14.2 % (1) Loans for borrowers who may still be attending school or engaging in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation, as well as loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors. (2) Loans for borrowers who have used their allowable deferment time or do not qualify for deferment, that need additional time to obtain employment or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. 75 Allowance for FFELP Loan Losses The provision for student loan losses represents the periodic expense of maintaining an allowance sufficient to absorb incurred Risk Sharing losses, in the portfolio of FFELP loans. The following table summarizes changes in the allowance for FFELP loan losses for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Activity in Allowance for FFELP Loans On Balance Sheet Off Balance Sheet Managed Basis Years Ended December 31, Years Ended December 31, Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 Allowance at beginning of period $ 138 $ 89 $ 20 $ 27 $ 29 $ 14 $ 165 $ 118 $ 34 Provision for FFELP loan losses 106 106 89 13 21 32 119 127 121 Charge offs (79 ) (58 ) (21 ) (15 ) (21 ) (15 ) (94 ) (79 ) (36 ) Student loan sales and securitization activity (4 ) 1 1 (2 ) (2 ) (4 ) (1 ) (1 ) Allowance at end of period $ 161 $ 138 $ 89 $ 25 $ 27 $ 29 $ 186 $ 165 $ 118 Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment .1 % .1 % .0 % .1 % .1 % .1 % .1 % .1 % .1 % Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment and forbearance .1 % .1 % .0 % .1 % .1 % .1 % .1 % .1 % .0 % Allowance as a percentage of the ending total loans, gross .1 % .1 % .1 % .1 % .1 % .1 % .1 % .1 % .1 % Allowance as a percentage of ending loans in repayment .2 % .2 % .1 % .2 % .2 % .2 % .2 % .2 % .1 % Average coverage of charge offs 2.0 2.4 4.2 1.7 1.3 1.9 2.0 2.1 3.2 Ending total loans, gross $ 119,027 $ 121,927 $ 107,165 $ 19,745 $ 22,134 $ 25,306 $ 138,772 $ 144,061 $ 132,471 Average loans in repayment $ 69,020 $ 66,392 $ 58,999 $ 14,293 $ 16,086 $ 18,624 $ 83,313 $ 82,478 $ 77,623 Ending loans in repayment $ 69,827 $ 70,174 $ 65,290 $ 13,707 $ 15,198 $ 17,296 $ 83,534 $ 85,372 $ 82,586 Total Provisions for Loan Losses The following tables summarize the total loan provisions on both an on balance sheet and on a Managed Basis for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Total on balance sheet loan provisions Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Private Education Loans $ 967 $ 586 $ 884 FFELP Loans 106 106 89 Mortgage and consumer loans 46 28 42 Total on balance sheet provisions for loan losses $ 1,119 $ 720 $ 1,015 76 Total Managed Basis loan provisions Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Private Education Loans $ 1,399 $ 874 $ 1,233 FFELP loans 119 127 121 Mortgage and consumer loans 46 28 40 Total Managed Basis provisions for loan losses $ 1,564 $ 1,029 $ 1,394 Provision expense for Private Education Loans was previously discussed above (see Private Education Loan Losses Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses). Total Loan Charge offs The following tables summarize the charge offs for all loan types on balance sheet and on a Managed Basis for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Total on balance sheet loan charge offs Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Private Education Loans $ 876 $ 320 $ 246 FFELP loans 79 58 21 Mortgage and consumer loans 35 17 11 Total on balance sheet loan charge offs $ 990 $ 395 $ 278 Total Managed Basis loan charge offs Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Private Education Loans $ 1,299 $ 473 $ 325 FFELP loans 94 79 36 Mortgage and consumer loans 35 17 11 Total Managed loan charge offs $ 1,428 $ 569 $ 372 The increase in charge offs on FFELP loans from 2007 through 2009 was primarily the result of legislative changes occurring in 2006 (the reduction in the federal guaranty on new loans to 97 percent) and 2007 (the repeal of the Exceptional Performer designation, under which claims were paid at 99 percent). The majority of our FFELP loans now possess a federal guaranty level on claims filed of either 97 percent or 98 percent, depending on date of disbursement. The increase in charge offs is also due to the continued weakening of the U.S. economy. See Private Education Loan Losses Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses above for a discussion of net charge offs related to our Private Education Loans. 77 Receivable for Partially Charged Off Private Education Loans The Company charges off the estimated loss of a defaulted loan balance. Actual recoveries are applied against the remaining loan balance that was not charged off. We refer to this remaining loan balance as the receivable for partially charged off loans. If actual periodic recoveries are less than expected, the difference is charged off and immediately included in provision expense. The following tables summarize the activity in the receivable for partially charged off loans (see Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses, above, for a further discussion) for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Activity in Receivable for Partially Charged Off Loans On Balance Sheet Off Balance Sheet Managed Basis Years Ended Years Ended Years Ended December 31, December 31, December 31, 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 Receivable at beginning of period $ 222 $ 118 $ 64 $ 92 $ 28 $ $ 314 $ 146 $ 64 Expected future recoveries of current period defaults(1) 320 140 86 154 72 28 474 212 114 Recoveries (43 ) (36 ) (32 ) (17 ) (8 ) (60 ) (44 ) (32 ) Receivable at end of period $ 499 $ 222 $ 118 $ 229 $ 92 $ 28 $ 728 $ 314 $ 146 (1) Net of any current period recoveries that were less than expected. Student Loan Acquisitions The following tables summarize the components of our student loan acquisition activity for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Year Ended December 31, 2009 FFELP Private Total Internal lending brands and Lender Partners $ 22,375 $ 3,394 $ 25,769 Other commitment clients 347 347 Spot purchases 1,523 1,523 Consolidations and clean up calls of off balance sheet securitized loans 3,376 797 4,173 Capitalized interest, premiums and discounts 2,583 949 3,532 Total on balance sheet student loan acquisitions 30,204 5,140 35,344 Consolidations and clean up calls of off balance sheet securitized loans (3,376 ) (797 ) (4,173 ) Capitalized interest, premiums and discounts off balance sheet securitized loans 342 498 840 Total Managed student loan acquisitions $ 27,170 $ 4,841 $ 32,011 78 Year Ended December 31, 2008 FFELP Private Total Internal lending brands and Lender Partners $ 19,894 $ 6,437 $ 26,331 Other commitment clients 701 701 Spot purchases 206 206 Consolidations from third parties 462 149 611 Consolidations and clean up calls of off balance sheet securitized loans 986 280 1,266 Capitalized interest, premiums and discounts 2,446 921 3,367 Total on balance sheet student loan acquisitions 24,695 7,787 32,482 Consolidations and clean up calls of off balance sheet securitized loans (986 ) (280 ) (1,266 ) Capitalized interest, premiums and discounts off balance sheet securitized loans 457 741 1,198 Total Managed student loan acquisitions $ 24,166 $ 8,248 $ 32,414 Year Ended December 31, 2007 FFELP Private Total Internal lending brands and Lender Partners $ 17,577 $ 7,888 $ 25,465 Wholesale Consolidation Loans(1) 7,048 7,048 Other commitment clients 248 57 305 Spot purchases 1,120 1,120 Consolidations from third parties 2,206 235 2,441 Consolidations and clean up calls of off balance sheet securitized loans 3,744 582 4,326 Capitalized interest, premiums and discounts 2,279 444 2,723 Total on balance sheet student loan acquisitions 34,222 9,206 43,428 Consolidations and clean up calls of off balance sheet securitized loans (3,744 ) (582 ) (4,326 ) Capitalized interest, premiums and discounts off balance sheet securitized loans 539 703 1,242 Total Managed student loan acquisitions $ 31,017 $ 9,327 $ 40,344 (1) Includes FFELP Consolidation Loans purchased by the Company primarily via the spot market, which augmented the Companys in house FFELP Consolidation Loan origination process. Wholesale Consolidation Loans were considered incremental volume to the Companys core acquisition channels. In 2008, the Company ceased acquiring Wholesale Consolidation Loans. As shown in the above tables, off balance sheet FFELP Stafford Loans that consolidate with us become an on balance sheet interestearning asset. This activity results in impairments of our Retained Interests in securitizations, but this is offset by an increase in on balance sheet interestearning assets, for which we do not record an offsetting gain. 79 The following table includes on balance sheet asset information for our Lending business segment. December 31, 2009 2008 FFELP Stafford and Other Student Loans, net $ 42,979 $ 44,025 FFELP Stafford Loans Held for Sale 9,696 8,451 FFELP Consolidation Loans, net 68,379 71,744 Private Education Loans, net 22,753 20,582 Other loans, net 420 729 Investments(1) 12,387 8,445 Retained Interest in off balance sheet securitized loans 1,828 2,200 Other(2) 9,398 9,947 Total assets $ 167,840 $ 166,123 (1) Investments include cash and cash equivalents, short and long term investments, restricted cash and investments, leveraged leases, and municipal bonds. (2) Other assets include accrued interest receivable, goodwill and acquired intangible assets and other non interest earning assets. Loan Originations The Company originates loans under its own brand names, which we refer to as internal lending brands, and also through Lender Partners under forward contracts to purchase loans at contractual prices. In the past, we referred to these combined channels as Preferred Channel Originations. As discussed at the beginning of this LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT, legislative changes and credit market conditions have resulted in other FFELP lenders reducing their participation in the FFELP program. As a result of the impacts described above, our FFELP internal brand originations were up sharply in 2009, increasing 40 percent from the prior year. Our FFELP lender partner originations declined 42 percent from 2008 to 2009. A number of these Lender Partners, including some of our largest originators have converted to third party servicing arrangements in which we service loans on their behalf. Combined, total FFELP loan originations increased 21 percent in 2009. Total Private Education Loan originations declined 50 percent from the prior year to $3.2 billion in the year ended December 31, 2009, as a result of a continued tightening of our underwriting criteria, an increase in guaranteed student loan limits and the Companys withdrawal from certain markets. At December 31, 2009, the Company was committed to purchase $1.3 billion of loans originated by our Lender Partners ($820 million of FFELP loans and $456 million of Private Education Loans). Approximately $240 million of these FFELP loans were originated prior to CCRAA. Approximately $533 million of these FFELP loans are eligible for EDs Purchase and Participation Programs (see LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES ED Funding Programs). 80 The following tables summarize our loan originations by type of loan and source. Years Ended December 31, December 31, December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Loan Originations Internal lending brands Stafford $ 16,675 $ 11,593 $ 7,404 PLUS 1,594 1,437 1,439 GradPLUS 1,094 801 498 Total FFELP 19,363 13,831 9,341 Private Education Loans 2,969 5,791 7,267 Total $ 22,332 $ 19,622 $ 16,608 Years Ended December 31, December 31, December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Loan Originations Lender Partners Stafford $ 2,178 $ 3,652 $ 6,963 PLUS 144 362 855 GradPLUS 61 62 103 Total FFELP 2,383 4,076 7,921 Private Education Loans 207 545 648 Total $ 2,590 $ 4,621 $ 8,569 Years Ended December 31, December 31, December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Loan Originations Total Stafford $ 18,853 $ 15,245 $ 14,367 PLUS 1,738 1,799 2,294 GradPLUS 1,155 863 601 Total FFELP 21,746 17,907 17,262 Private Education Loans 3,176 6,336 7,915 Total $ 24,922 $ 24,243 $ 25,177 81 Student Loan Activity The following tables summarize the activity in our on balance sheet, off balance sheet and Managed portfolios of FFELP loans and Private Education Loans and highlight the effects of FFELP Consolidation Loan activity on our FFELP portfolios. On Balance Sheet Years Ended December 31, 2009 FFELP FFELP Total Private Total On Stafford and Consolidation Total Education Balance Sheet Other(1) Loans FFELP Loans Portfolio Beginning balance $ 52,476 $ 71,744 $ 124,220 $ 20,582 $ 144,802 Net consolidations: Incremental consolidations from third parties Consolidations to third parties (1,113 ) (518 ) (1,631 ) (8 ) (1,639 ) Net consolidations (1,113 ) (518 ) (1,631 ) (8 ) (1,639 ) Acquisitions 25,677 1,150 26,827 4,343 31,170 Net acquisitions 24,564 632 25,196 4,335 29,531 Internal consolidations(2) Securitization related(3) 645 645 645 Sales (19,300 ) (19,300 ) (19,300 ) Repayments/claims/other (5,710 ) (3,997 ) (9,707 ) (2,164 ) (11,871 ) Ending balance $ 52,675 $ 68,379 $ 121,054 $ 22,753 $ 143,807 Off Balance Sheet Years Ended December 31, 2009 FFELP FFELP Total Private Total Off Stafford and Consolidation Total Education Balance Sheet Other(1) Loans FFELP Loans Portfolio Beginning balance $ 7,143 $ 15,531 $ 22,674 $ 12,917 $ 35,591 Net consolidations: Incremental consolidations from third parties Consolidations to third parties (413 ) (138 ) (551 ) (18 ) (569 ) Net consolidations (413 ) (138 ) (551 ) (18 ) (569 ) Acquisitions 135 208 343 498 841 Net acquisitions (278 ) 70 (208 ) 480 272 Internal consolidations(2) Securitization related(3) (645 ) (645 ) (645 ) Sales Repayments/claims/other (720 ) (804 ) (1,524 ) (1,056 ) (2,580 ) Ending balance $ 5,500 $ 14,797 $ 20,297 $ 12,341 $ 32,638 Managed Portfolio Years Ended December 31, 2009 FFELP FFELP Total Private Total Stafford and Consolidation Total Education Managed Basis Other(1) Loans FFELP Loans Portfolio Beginning balance $ 59,619 $ 87,275 $ 146,894 $ 33,499 $ 180,393 Net consolidations: Incremental consolidations from third parties Consolidations to third parties (1,526 ) (656 ) (2,182 ) (26 ) (2,208 ) Net consolidations (1,526 ) (656 ) (2,182 ) (26 ) (2,208 ) Acquisitions 25,812 1,358 27,170 4,841 32,011 Net acquisitions 24,286 702 24,988 4,815 29,803 Internal consolidations(2) Securitization related(3) Sales (19,300 ) (19,300 ) (19,300 ) Repayments/claims/other (6,430 ) (4,801 ) (11,231 ) (3,220 ) (14,451 ) Ending balance(4) $ 58,175 $ 83,176 $ 141,351 $ 35,094 $ 176,445 Total Managed Acquisitions(5) $ 25,812 $ 1,358 $ 27,170 $ 4,841 $ 32,011 (1) FFELP category is primarily Stafford Loans but also includes federally guaranteed PLUS and HEAL Loans. (2) Represents borrowers consolidating their loans into a new Consolidation Loan. Loans in our off balance sheet securitization trusts that are consolidated are bought out of the trusts and moved on balance sheet. (3) Represents loans within securitization trusts that we are required to consolidate under GAAP once the trusts loan balances are below the clean up call threshold. (4) As of December 31, 2009, the ending balance includes $15.9 billion of FFELP Stafford and Other Loans and $2.6 billion of FFELP Consolidation Loans disbursed on or after October 1, 2007, which are impacted by CCRAA legislation. (5) The Total Managed Acquisitions line includes incremental consolidations from third parties and acquisitions. 82 On Balance Sheet Year Ended December 31, 2008 FFELP FFELP Total Private Total On Stafford and Consolidation Total Education Balance Sheet Other(1) Loans FFELP Loans Portfolio Beginning balance $ 35,726 $ 73,609 $ 109,335 $ 14,818 $ 124,153 Net consolidations: Incremental consolidations from third parties 462 462 149 611 Consolidations to third parties (703 ) (392 ) (1,095 ) (41 ) (1,136 ) Net consolidations (703 ) 70 (633 ) 108 (525 ) Acquisitions 21,889 1,358 23,247 7,357 30,604 Net acquisitions 21,186 1,428 22,614 7,465 30,079 Internal consolidations(2) (409 ) 529 120 228 348 Off balance sheet securitizations Sales (522 ) (26 ) (548 ) (548 ) Repayments/claims/other (3,505 ) (3,796 ) (7,301 ) (1,929 ) (9,230 ) Ending balance $ 52,476 $ 71,744 $ 124,220 $ 20,582 $ 144,802 Off Balance Sheet Year Ended December 31, 2008 FFELP FFELP Total Private Total Off Stafford and Consolidation Total Education Balance Sheet Other(1) Loans FFELP Loans Portfolio Beginning balance $ 9,472 $ 16,441 $ 25,913 $ 13,510 $ 39,423 Net consolidations: Incremental consolidations from third parties Consolidations to third parties (311 ) (83 ) (394 ) (57 ) (451 ) Net consolidations (311 ) (83 ) (394 ) (57 ) (451 ) Acquisitions 246 211 457 742 1,199 Net acquisitions (65 ) 128 63 685 748 Internal consolidations(2) (84 ) (36 ) (120 ) (228 ) (348 ) Off balance sheet securitizations Sales Repayments/claims/other (2,180 ) (1,002 ) (3,182 ) (1,050 ) (4,232 ) Ending balance $ 7,143 $ 15,531 $ 22,674 $ 12,917 $ 35,591 Managed Portfolio Year Ended December 31, 2008 FFELP FFELP Total Private Total Stafford and Consolidation Total Education Managed Basis Other(1) Loans FFELP Loans Portfolio Beginning balance $ 45,198 $ 90,050 $ 135,248 $ 28,328 $ 163,576 Net consolidations: Incremental consolidations from third parties 462 462 149 611 Consolidations to third parties (1,014 ) (475 ) (1,489 ) (98 ) (1,587 ) Net consolidations (1,014 ) (13 ) (1,027 ) 51 (976 ) Acquisitions 22,135 1,569 23,704 8,099 31,803 Net acquisitions 21,121 1,556 22,677 8,150 30,827 Internal consolidations(2) (493 ) 493 Off balance sheet securitizations Sales (522 ) (26 ) (548 ) (548 ) Repayments/claims/other (5,685 ) (4,798 ) (10,483 ) (2,979 ) (13,462 ) Ending balance(3) $ 59,619 $ 87,275 $ 146,894 $ 33,499 $ 180,393 Total Managed Acquisitions(4) $ 22,135 $ 2,031 $ 24,166 $ 8,248 $ 32,414 (1) FFELP category is primarily Stafford Loans but also includes federally guaranteed PLUS and HEAL Loans. (2) Represents borrowers consolidating their loans into a new Consolidation Loan. Loans in our off balance sheet securitization trusts that are consolidated are bought out of the trusts and moved on balance sheet. (3) As of December 31, 2008, the ending balance includes $13.7 billion of FFELP Stafford and Other Loans and $2.6 billion of FFELP Consolidation Loans disbursed on or after October 1, 2007, which are impacted by CCRAA legislation. (4) The Total Managed Acquisitions line includes incremental consolidations from third parties and acquisitions. 83 On Balance Sheet Year Ended December 31, 2007 FFELP Total Stafford FFELP Private Total On and Consolidation Total Education Balance Sheet Other(1) Loans FFELP Loans Portfolio Beginning balance $ 24,841 $ 61,324 $ 86,165 $ 9,755 $ 95,920 Net consolidations: Incremental consolidations from third parties 2,206 2,206 235 2,441 Consolidations to third parties (2,352 ) (801 ) (3,153 ) (45 ) (3,198 ) Net consolidations (2,352 ) 1,405 (947 ) 190 (757 ) Acquisitions 19,835 8,437 28,272 8,388 36,660 Net acquisitions 17,483 9,842 27,325 8,578 35,903 Internal consolidations (4,413 ) 6,652 2,239 536 2,775 Off balance sheet securitizations (1,871 ) (1,871 ) Sales (331 ) (701 ) (1,032 ) (1,032 ) Repayments/claims/other (1,854 ) (3,508 ) (5,362 ) (2,180 ) (7,542 ) Ending balance $ 35,726 $ 73,609 $ 109,335 $ 14,818 $ 124,153 Off Balance Sheet Year Ended December 31, 2007 FFELP Total Stafford FFELP Private Total Off and Consolidation Total Education Balance Sheet Other(1) Loans FFELP Loans Portfolio Beginning balance $ 15,028 $ 18,311 $ 33,339 $ 12,833 $ 46,172 Net consolidations: Incremental consolidations from third parties Consolidations to third parties (933 ) (207 ) (1,140 ) (93 ) (1,233 ) Net consolidations (933 ) (207 ) (1,140 ) (93 ) (1,233 ) Acquisitions 330 209 539 704 1,243 Net acquisitions (603 ) 2 (601 ) 611 10 Internal consolidations(2) (1,494 ) (745 ) (2,239 ) (536 ) (2,775 ) Off balance sheet securitizations 1,871 1,871 Sales (33 ) (85 ) (118 ) (118 ) Repayments/claims/other (3,426 ) (1,042 ) (4,468 ) (1,269 ) (5,737 ) Ending balance $ 9,472 $ 16,441 $ 25,913 $ 13,510 $ 39,423 Managed Portfolio Year Ended December 31, 2007 FFELP Total Stafford FFELP Private Total and Consolidation Total Education Managed Other(1) Loans FFELP Loans Basis Portfolio Beginning balance $ 39,869 $ 79,635 $ 119,504 $ 22,588 $ 142,092 Net consolidations: Incremental consolidations from third parties 2,206 2,206 235 2,441 Consolidations to third parties (3,285 ) (1,008 ) (4,293 ) (138 ) (4,431 ) Net consolidations (3,285 ) 1,198 (2,087 ) 97 (1,990 ) Acquisitions 20,165 8,646 28,811 9,092 37,903 Net acquisitions 16,880 9,844 26,724 9,189 35,913 Internal consolidations(2) (5,907 ) 5,907 Off balance sheet securitizations Sales (364 ) (786 ) (1,150 ) (1,150 ) Repayments/claims/other (5,280 ) (4,550 ) (9,830 ) (3,449 ) (13,279 ) Ending balance(3) $ 45,198 $ 90,050 $ 135,248 $ 28,328 $ 163,576 Total Managed Acquisitions(4) $ 20,165 $ 10,852 $ 31,017 $ 9,327 $ 40,344 (1) FFELP category is primarily Stafford Loans and also includes PLUS and HEAL Loans. (2) Represents loans that we either own on balance sheet or loans that we consolidated from our off balance sheet securitization trusts. (3) As of December 31, 2007, the ending balance includes $1.3 billion of FFELP Stafford and Other Loans and $1.4 billion of FFELP Consolidation Loans disbursed on or after October 1, 2007, which are impacted by CCRAA legislation. (4) The Total Managed Acquisitions line includes incremental consolidations from third parties and acquisitions. 84 Other Income Lending Business Segment The following table summarizes the components of other income, net, for our Lending business segment for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Gains on debt repurchases $ 536 $ 64 $ Gains (losses) on sales of loans and securities, net 284 (51 ) 24 Late fees and forbearance fees 146 143 134 Gains on sales of mortgages and other loan fees 3 11 Other 8 21 25 Total other income, net $ 974 $ 180 $ 194 The change in other income over the prior periods presented is primarily the result of the gains on debt repurchased and gains on sales of loans. The Company began repurchasing its outstanding debt in the second quarter of 2008. The Company repurchased $3.4 billion and $1.9 billion face amount of its senior unsecured notes during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Since the second quarter of 2008, the Company repurchased $5.3 billion face amount of its senior unsecured notes in the aggregate, with maturity dates ranging from 2008 to 2016. The $284 million of gains on sales of loans and securities, net, in the year ended December 31, 2009 related to the sale of approximately $18.5 billion face amount of FFELP loans to the ED as part of the Purchase Program. The loss in 2008 primarily relates to the sale of approximately $1.0 billion FFELP loans to ED under ECASLA, which resulted in a $53 million loss. Operating Expenses Lending Business Segment The following table summarizes the components of operating expenses for our Lending business segment for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Sales and originations $ 212 $ 235 $ 351 Servicing 266 237 227 Corporate overhead 103 111 112 Total operating expenses $ 581 $ 583 $ 690 Operating expenses for our Lending business segment include costs incurred to service our Managed student loan portfolio and acquire student loans, as well as other general and administrative expenses. 2009 versus 2008 Operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2009, remained relatively unchanged from the prior year. In 2009, operating expenses were higher as a result of higher collection costs from a higher number of loans in repayment and delinquent status and higher direct to consumer marketing costs related to Private Education Loans. These increases in operating expenses were offset primarily by the full year effect of the Companys cost reduction efforts conducted throughout 2008. 2008 versus 2007 Operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008, decreased by 16 percent from 2007. The decrease is primarily due to the impact of our cost reduction efforts and to the suspension of certain student loan programs. 85 ASSET PERFORMANCE GROUP (APG) BUSINESS SEGMENT In our APG business segment, we provide a wide range of accounts receivable and collections services, including student loan default aversion services, defaulted student loan portfolio management services, contingency collections services for student loans and other asset classes, and accounts receivable management and collection for purchased portfolios of receivables that are delinquent or have been charged off by their original creditors as well as sub performing and non performing mortgage loans. In the purchased receivables business, we focus on a variety of consumer debt types with emphasis on charged off credit card receivables and distressed mortgage receivables. We purchase these portfolios at a discount to their face value and then use both our internal collection operations, coupled with third party collection agencies, to maximize the recovery on these receivables. An overview of this segment and recent developments that have significantly impacted this segment are included in the Item 1. Business section of this document. The private sector collections industry is highly fragmented with few large public companies and a large number of small scale privately held companies. The collections industry is highly competitive. We are responding to these competitive challenges through enhanced servicing efficiencies and by continuing to build on customer relationships through value added services and financings. Condensed Statements of Income The following tables include Core Earnings results of operations for our APG business segment. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Purchased Purchased Paper Paper Non Mortgage/ Contingency Mortgage Properties Other Total APG Contingency fee income $ 2 $ $ 294 $ 296 Collections revenue 50 50 Total income 52 294 346 Restructuring expenses 1 1 Operating expenses 138 177 315 Total expenses 138 178 316 Net interest expense 10 9 19 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax expense (benefit) (96 ) 107 11 Income tax expense (benefit) (34 ) 41 7 Net income (loss) from continuing operations (62 ) 66 4 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (157 ) (157 ) Net income (loss) (62 ) (157 ) 66 (153 ) Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 1 1 Core Earnings net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation $ (63 ) $ (157 ) $ 66 $ (154 ) Core Earnings net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations, net of tax $ (63 ) $ $ 66 $ 3 Discontinued operations, net of tax (157 ) (157 ) Core Earnings net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation $ (63 ) $ (157 ) $ 66 $ (154 ) 86 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Purchased Purchased Paper Paper Non Mortgage/ Contingency Mortgage Properties Other Total APG Contingency fee income $ 10 $ $ 330 $ 340 Collections revenue 129 129 Total income 139 330 469 Restructuring expenses 6 5 11 Operating expenses 202 187 389 Total expenses 208 192 400 Net interest expense 13 12 25 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax expense (benefit) (82 ) 126 44 Income tax expense (benefit) (29 ) 52 23 Net income (loss) from continuing operations (53 ) 74 21 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (140 ) (140 ) Net income (loss) (53 ) (140 ) 74 (119 ) Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 4 4 Core Earnings net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation $ (57 ) $ (140 ) $ 74 $ (123 ) Core Earnings net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations, net of tax $ (57 ) $ $ 74 $ 17 Discontinued operations, net of tax (140 ) (140 ) Core Earnings net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation $ (57 ) $ (140 ) $ 74 $ (123 ) 87 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Purchased Purchased Paper Paper Non Mortgage/ Contingency Mortgage Properties Other Total APG Contingency fee income $ 9 $ $ 327 $ 336 Collections revenue 217 217 Total income 226 327 553 Restructuring expenses 1 1 2 Operating expenses 164 197 361 Total expenses 165 198 363 Net interest expense 13 14 27 Income from continuing operations before income tax expense 48 115 163 Income tax expense 18 42 60 Net income from continuing operations 30 73 103 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 15 15 Net income 30 15 73 118 Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 2 2 Core Earnings net income attributable to SLM Corporation $ 28 $ 15 $ 73 $ 116 Core Earnings net income attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations, net of tax $ 28 $ $ 73 $ 101 Discontinued operations, net of tax 15 15 Core Earnings net income attributable to SLM Corporation $ 28 $ 15 $ 73 $ 116 Collections Revenue In 2008, the Company concluded that its APG purchased paper businesses were no longer a strategic fit. The Company sold its international Purchased Paper Non Mortgage business in the first quarter of 2009. A loss of $51 million was recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008 related to this sale as the net assets were held for sale and carried at the lower of its book basis and fair value as of December 31, 2008. The Company sold all of the assets in its Purchased Paper Mortgage/Properties business in the fourth quarter of 2009 (which is further discussed below), which resulted in an after tax loss of $95 million. The Company continues to wind down the domestic side of its Purchased Paper Non Mortgage business. The Company will continue to consider opportunities to sell this business at acceptable prices in the future. The Companys domestic Purchased Paper Non Mortgage business had certain forward purchase obligations under which the Company was committed to buy purchased paper through April 2009. The Company did not purchase any additional purchased paper in excess of these obligations. The Company recognized $79 million, $111 million and $17 million of impairments in the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The impairment is primarily a result of the impact of the economy on the ability to collect on these assets. The impairment of $111 million in 2008 includes the $51 million loss on the sale of the Companys international Purchased Paper Non Mortgage business discussed above. Similar to the Purchased Paper Mortgage/Properties business discussion below, when the Purchased Paper Non Mortgage business either sells all of its remaining assets or completely winds down its operations, its results will be shown as discontinued operations. 88 Net loss attributable to SLM Corporation from discontinued operations was $157 million and $140 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, compared to net income of $15 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. The Company sold all of the assets in its Purchased Paper Mortgage/Properties business in the fourth quarter of 2009 for $280 million. Because of the sale, the Purchased Paper Mortgage/Properties business is required to be presented separately as discontinued operations for all periods presented. This sale of assets in the fourth quarter of 2009 resulted in an after tax loss of $95 million. Total after tax impairments, including the loss on sale, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $154 million, $161 million and $2 million, respectively. Contingency Fee Income Contingency fee income decreased $44 million from $340 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 to $296 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. This decrease was primarily a result of significantly less guarantor collections revenue associated with rehabilitating delinquent FFELP loans. Loans are considered rehabilitated after a certain number of on time payments have been collected. The Company earns a rehabilitation fee only when the Guarantor sells the rehabilitated loan. The disruption in the credit markets has limited the sale of rehabilitated loans. The contingency fee income for the year ended December 31, 2008 was relatively unchanged compared to 2007. Purchased Paper Non Mortgage Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Face value of purchases for the period $ 390 $ 5,353 $ 6,111 Purchase price for the period 30 483 556 Purchase price as a percentage of face value purchased 7.6 % 9.0 % 9.1 % Gross Cash Collections (GCC) $ 376 $ 655 $ 463 Collections revenue 50 129 217 Collections revenue as a percentage of GCC 13 % 20 % 47 % Carrying value of purchased paper $ 285 $ 544 $ 587 The decrease in collections revenue as a percentage of gross cash collections (GCC) in 2009 compared to 2008 and 2007 was primarily due to the significant impairment recognized in 2008. Contingency Inventory The following table presents the outstanding inventory of receivables serviced through our APG business segment. These assets are not on our balance sheet. As of December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Contingency: Student loans $ 8,762 $ 9,852 $ 8,195 Other 1,262 1,726 1,509 Total $ 10,024 $ 11,578 $ 9,704 Operating Expenses APG Business Segment For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, operating expenses for the APG contingency and other businesses totaled $177 million, $187 million and $197 million, respectively. The decrease in operating expenses in 2009 versus prior years is primarily due to the Companys cost reduction initiatives. 89 For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, operating expenses for the APG Purchased Paper Non Mortgage business totaled $138 million, $202 million and $164 million, respectively. The decrease from the prior years is primarily due to lower collection costs due to the decreasing size of the portfolio as a result of winding down the business. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the APG business segment had total assets of $1.1 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively. CORPORATE AND OTHER BUSINESS SEGMENT Our Corporate and Other reportable segment reflects the aggregate activity of our smaller operating units, including our Guarantor Servicing and Loan Servicing operating units, Upromise, other products and services, as well as corporate expenses that do not pertain directly to our operating segments. In our Guarantor Servicing operating unit, we provide a full complement of administrative services to FFELP Guarantors, including guarantee issuance, processing, account maintenance and guarantee fulfillment. In our Loan Servicing operating unit, we originate and service student loans on behalf of lenders, including ED, who are unrelated to SLM Corporation. In our Upromise operating unit, we provide 529 college savings plan program management, transfer and servicing agent services, and administration services, and operate a consumer savings network. 90 Condensed Statements of Income The following tables include Core Earnings results of operations for our Corporate and Other business segment. Years Ended December 31, % Increase (Decrease) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Net interest income after provisions for losses $ 5 $ 6 $ (1 ) $ (17 ) $ 700 % Guarantor servicing fees 136 121 156 12 (22 ) Loan servicing fees 53 26 23 104 13 Upromise 112 108 110 4 (2 ) Other 50 65 85 (23 ) (24 ) Total other income 351 320 374 10 (14 ) Restructuring expenses 3 23 2 (87 ) 1,050 Operating expenses 284 256 339 11 (24 ) Total expenses 287 279 341 3 (18 ) Income from continuing operations, before income tax expense 69 47 32 47 47 Income tax expense 24 17 12 41 42 Net income 45 30 20 50 50 Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interest Core Earnings net income attributable to SLM Corporation $ 45 $ 30 $ 20 50 % 50 % Core Earnings net income attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations, net of tax $ 45 $ 30 $ 20 50 % 50 % Discontinued operations, net of tax Core Earnings net income attributable to SLM Corporation $ 45 $ 30 $ 20 50 % 50 % USA Funds, the nations largest guarantee agency, accounted for 86 percent, 85 percent and 86 percent, respectively, of guarantor servicing fees and 2 percent, 11 percent and 16 percent, respectively, of revenues associated with other products and services for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. 2009 versus 2008 The increase in guarantor servicing fees from 2008 to 2009 primarily relates to an increase in guarantor issuance fees earned as a result of a significant increase in FFELP loan guarantees (consistent with the significant increase in the Companys FFELP loan originations) over the prior year as well as an increase in account maintenance fees earned which are a function of the size of the FFELP portfolio. The increase in loan servicing fees from 2008 to 2009 is primarily due to $9 million of servicing revenue related to the 2 million accounts the Company began servicing under the ED Servicing Contract in 2009 and $8 million of additional loan conversion fees earned by the Company when third party servicing clients sold their FFELP loans to ED under the ED Purchase Program in the third quarter of 2009, as well as an increase in the size of other third party servicing relationships the Company has. 91 2008 versus 2007 The decrease in guarantor servicing fees from 2007 to 2008 was primarily due to the recognition of $15 million in the fourth quarter of 2007 of previously deferred guarantee account maintenance fee revenue related to a negotiated settlement with USA Funds, as well as a decrease in the account maintenance fees earned in 2008 due to the legislative changes effective October 1, 2007 as a result of CCRAA. Operating Expenses Corporate and Other Business Segment The following table summarizes the components of operating expenses for our Corporate and Other business segment. Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Operating expenses $ 110 $ 90 $ 109 Upromise 84 91 94 General and administrative expenses 90 75 136 Total $ 284 $ 256 $ 339 Operating expenses for our Corporate and Other business segment include direct costs incurred to service loans for unrelated third parties, perform guarantor servicing on behalf of Guarantor agencies and operate our Upromise subsidiary, as well as information technology expenses related to these functions. Operating expenses also include unallocated corporate overhead expenses for centralized headquarters functions. 2009 versus 2008 For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, operating expenses for the Corporate and Other business segment totaled $284 million and $256 million, respectively. The increase in operating expenses in 2009 versus the prior year was primarily due to higher expenses incurred to reconfigure the Companys servicing system to meet the requirements of the ED Servicing Contract awarded to the Company on June 17, 2009 to service FFELP loans that have been or will be sold to ED, as well as professional services fees incurred in connection with strategic planning. 2008 versus 2007 The decrease in operating expenses in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to $56 million of non recurring Proposed Merger related expenses in 2007, as well as the Companys cost reduction initiatives. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Corporate and Other business segment had total assets of $1.2 million and $685 million, respectively. 92 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The following LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES discussion concentrates on our Lending business segment. Our APG contingency collections and Corporate and Other business segments are not capital intensive businesses and, as such, a minimal amount of debt capital is allocated to these segments. Historically, we funded new loan originations with a combination of term unsecured debt and student loan asset backed securities. Following the Proposed Merger announcement in April 2007, we temporarily suspended issuance of unsecured debt and began funding loan originations primarily through the issuance of student loan asset backed securities and short term secured student loan financing facilities. In June 2008, the Company accessed the corporate bond market with a $2.5 billion issuance of 10 year senior unsecured notes. In August 2008, we began funding new FFELP Stafford and PLUS Loan originations for AY 2008 2009 pursuant to EDs Loan Participation Program. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company began retaining its Private Education Loan originations in its banking subsidiary, Sallie Mae Bank, and funding these assets with term bank deposits. In May 2009, we began using the ED Conduit Program to fund FFELP Stafford and PLUS Loans. We discuss these liquidity sources below. In the near term, we expect to continue to use EDs Purchase and Participation Programs to fund future FFELP Stafford and PLUS Loan originations and to use deposits at Sallie Mae Bank and term asset backed securities to fund Private Education Loan originations. We plan to use term asset backed securities, asset backed financing facilities, cash flows provided by earnings and repayment of principal on our unencumbered student loan assets and distributions from our securitization trusts, as well as other sources, to retire maturing debt and provide cash for operations and other needs. ED Funding Programs In August 2008, ED implemented the Purchase Program and the Loan Purchase Participation Program (the Participation Program) pursuant to ECASLA. Under the Purchase Program, ED purchases eligible FFELP loans at a price equal to the sum of (i) par value, (ii) accrued interest, (iii) the one percent origination fee paid to ED, and (iv) a fixed amount of $75 per loan. Under the Participation Program, ED provides short term liquidity to FFELP lenders by purchasing participation interests in pools of FFELP loans. FFELP lenders are charged a rate equal to the preceding quarter commercial paper rate plus 0.50 percent on the principal amount of participation interests outstanding. Under the terms of the Participation Program, on September 30, 2010, AY 2009 2010 loans funded under the Participation Program must be either repurchased by the Company or sold to ED pursuant to the Participation Program, which has identical economics to the Purchase Program. Given the state of the credit markets, we currently expect to sell all of the loans we fund under the Participation Program to ED. Loans eligible for the Participation or Purchase Programs are limited to FFELP Stafford or PLUS Loans, first disbursed on or after May 1, 2008 but no later than July 1, 2010, with no ongoing borrower benefits other than permitted rate reductions of 0.25 percent for automatic payment processing. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had $9.0 billion of advances outstanding under the Participation Program. Through December 31, 2009, the Company has sold to ED approximately $18.5 billion face amount of loans as part of the Purchase Program. Outstanding debt of $18.5 billion was paid down related to the Participation Program in connection with these loan sales. These loan sales resulted in a $284 million gain. The settlement of the fourth quarter sale of loans out of the Participation Program included repaying the debt by delivering the related loans to ED in a non cash transaction and receipt of cash from ED for $484 million, representing the reimbursement of a one percent payment made to ED plus a $75 fee per loan. Also pursuant to ECASLA, on January 15, 2009, ED published summary terms under which it will purchase eligible FFELP Stafford and PLUS Loans from a conduit vehicle established to provide funding for eligible student lenders (the ED Conduit Program). Loans eligible for the ED Conduit Program must be first disbursed on or after October 1, 2003, but not later than July 1, 2009, and fully disbursed before September 30, 2009, and meet certain other requirements, including those relating to borrower benefits. The ED Conduit Program was launched on May 11, 2009 and will accept eligible loans through July 1, 2010. The ED Conduit Program has a term of five years and will expire on January 19, 2014. Funding for the ED Conduit Program is provided by the capital markets at a cost based on market rates, with the Company being advanced 97 percent of the student loan face amount. If the conduit does not have sufficient funds to make the required payments on the notes issued by the conduit, then 93 the notes will be repaid with funds from the Federal Financing Bank (FFB). The FFB will hold the notes for a short period of time and, if at the end of that time the notes still cannot be paid off, the underlying FFELP loans that serve as collateral to the ED Conduit will be sold to ED through the Put Agreement at a price of 97 percent of the face amount of the loans. As of December 31, 2009, approximately $14.6 billion face amount of our Stafford and PLUS Loans were funded through the ED Conduit Program. For 2009, the average interest rate paid on this facility was approximately 0.75 percent. As of December 31, 2009, there are approximately $820 million face amount of additional FFELP Stafford and PLUS Loans (excluding loans currently in the Participation Program) that can be funded through the ED Conduit Program. Additional Funding Sources for General Corporate Purposes In addition to funding FFELP loans through EDs Participation and Purchase Programs and the ED Conduit Program, the Company employs other financing sources for general corporate purposes, which include originating Private Education Loans and repurchases and repayments of unsecured debt obligations. Secured borrowings, including securitizations, asset backed commercial paper (ABCP) borrowings, ED financing facilities and indentured trusts, comprised 82 percent of our Managed debt outstanding at December 31, 2009 versus 78 percent at December 31, 2008. Sallie Mae Bank During the fourth quarter of 2008, Sallie Mae Bank, our Utah industrial bank subsidiary, began expanding its deposit base to fund new Private Education Loan originations. Sallie Mae Bank raises deposits primarily through intermediaries in the retail brokered CD market. As of December 31, 2009, total term bank deposits were $5.6 billion and cash and liquid investments totaled $2.4 billion. As of December 31, 2009, $4.2 billion of Private Education Loans were held at Sallie Mae Bank. We ultimately expect to raise additional long term financing, through Private Education Loan securitizations or other financings, to fund these loans. In the near term, we expect Sallie Mae Bank to continue to fund newly originated Private Education Loans through long term bank deposits. ABS Transactions On January 6, 2009, we closed a $1.5 billion 12.5 year asset backed securities (ABS) based facility. This facility is used to provide up to $1.5 billion term financing for Private Education Loans. The fully utilized cost of financing obtained under this facility is expected to be LIBOR plus 5.75 percent. In connection with this facility, we completed one Private Education Loan term ABS transaction totaling $1.5 billion in the first quarter of 2009. The net funding received under the asset backed securities based facility for this issuance was $1.1 billion. In 2009, we completed four FFELP long term ABS transactions totaling $5.9 billion. The FFELP transactions were composed primarily of FFELP Consolidation Loans which were not eligible for the ED Conduit Program or the Term Asset Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) discussed below. During 2009, we completed $7.5 billion of Private Education Loan term ABS transactions, all of which were private placement transactions. On January 6, 2009, we closed a $1.5 billion 12.5 year asset backed securities (ABS) based facility. This facility is used to provide up to $1.5 billion term financing for Private Education Loans. The fully utilized cost of financing obtained under this facility is expected to be LIBOR plus 5.75 percent. In connection with this facility, we completed one Private Education Loan term ABS transaction totaling $1.5 billion in the first quarter of 2009. The net funding received under the asset backed securities based facility for this issuance was $1.1 billion. In addition, we completed $6.0 billion of Private Education Loan term ABS transactions which were TALF eligible. See Term Asset Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) below for additional details. Although we have demonstrated our access to the ABS market in 2009 and we expect ABS financing to remain a primary source of funding over the long term, we expect our transaction volumes to be more limited and pricing less favorable than prior to the credit market dislocation that began in the summer of 2007, with significantly reduced opportunities to place subordinated tranches of ABS with investors. At present, while the markets have demonstrated some signs of recovery, we are unable to predict when market conditions will allow for more regular, reliable and cost effective access to the term ABS market. 94 Asset Backed Financing Facilities During the first quarter of 2008, the Company entered into three new asset backed financing facilities (the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities): (i) a $26.0 billion FFELP loan ABCP conduit facility (the 2008 FFELP ABCP Facility); (ii) a $5.9 billion Private Education Loan ABCP conduit facility (the 2008 Private Education Loan ABCP Facility) (collectively, the 2008 ABCP Facilities); and (iii) a $2.0 billion secured FFELP loan facility (the 2008 Asset Backed Loan Facility). The initial term of the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities was 364 days. The underlying cost of borrowing under the 2008 ABCP Facilities was approximately LIBOR plus 0.68 percent for the FFELP loan facilities and LIBOR plus 1.55 percent for the Private Education Loan facility, excluding upfront and unused commitment fees. All in pricing on the 2008 ABCP Facilities varied based on usage. For the full year 2008, the combined, all in cost of borrowings related to the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities, including amortized upfront fees and unused commitment fees, was three month LIBOR plus 2.47 percent. The primary use of the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities was to refinance comparable ABCP facilities incurred in connection with the Proposed Merger, with the expectation that outstanding balances under the 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities would be reduced through securitization of the underlying student loan collateral in the term ABS market. On February 2, 2009, the Company extended the maturity date of the 2008 ABCP Facilities from February 28, 2009 to April 28, 2009 for a $61 million upfront fee. The other terms of the facilities remained materially unchanged. On February 27, 2009, the Company extended the maturity date of the 2008 Asset Backed Loan Facility from February 28, 2009 to April 28, 2009 for a $4 million upfront fee. The other terms of this facility remained materially unchanged. On April 24, 2009, the Company extended the maturity of $21.8 billion of the 2008 FFELP ABCP Facility for one year to April 23, 2010. The Company also extended its 2008 Asset Backed Loan Facility in the amount of $1.5 billion. The extended 2008 Asset Backed Loan Facility matured on June 26, 2009 and was paid in full. A total of $86 million in fees were paid related to these extensions. The 2008 Private Education Loan ABCP Facility was paid off and terminated on April 24, 2009. The stated borrowing rate of the 2008 FFELP ABCP Facility was the applicable funding rate plus 130 basis points excluding upfront fees. The applicable funding rate generally was either a LIBOR or commercial paper rate. The terms of the 2008 FFELP ABCP Facility called for an increase in the applicable funding spread to 300 basis points if the outstanding borrowing amount was not reduced to $15.2 billion and $10.9 billion as of June 30, 2009 and September 30, 2009, respectively. If the Company did not negotiate an extension or pay off all outstanding amounts of the 2008 FFELP ABCP Facility at maturity, the facility would extend by 90 days with the interest rate generally increasing from LIBOR plus 250 basis points to 550 basis points over the 90 day period. The other terms of the facilities remained materially unchanged. The maximum amount the Company could borrow under the 2008 FFELP ABCP Facility was limited based on certain factors, including market conditions and the fair value of student loans in the facility. As of December 31, 2009, the maximum borrowing amount was approximately $10.5 billion. Funding under the 2008 FFELP ABCP Facility was subject to usual and customary conditions. The 2008 FFELP ABCP Facility was subject to termination under certain circumstances, including the Companys failure to comply with the principal financial covenants in its unsecured revolving credit facilities. Borrowings under the 2008 FFELP ABCP Facility were non recourse to the Company. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had $8.8 billion outstanding in connection with the 2008 FFELP ABCP Facility. The book basis of the assets securing this facility as of December 31, 2009 was $10.2 billion. On January 15, 2010, the Company terminated the 2008 FFELP ABCP Facility and entered into new multi year ABCP facilities (the 2010 Facility) which will continue to provide funding for the Companys federally guaranteed student loans. The 2010 Facility provides for maximum funding of $10 billion for the first year, $5 billion for the second year and $2 billion for the third year. Upfront fees related to the 2010 Facility were approximately $4 million. The underlying cost of borrowing under the 2010 Facility for the first year is expected to be commercial paper issuance cost plus 0.50 percent, excluding up front commitment and unused fees. 95 Borrowings under the 2010 Facility are non recourse to the Company. The maximum amount the Company may borrow under the 2010 Facility is limited based on certain factors, including market conditions and the fair value of student loans in the facility. Funding under the 2010 Facility is subject to usual and customary conditions. The 2010 Facility is subject to termination under certain circumstances, including the Companys failure to comply with the principal financial covenants in its unsecured revolving credit facilities. Increases in the borrowing rate of up to LIBOR plus 450 basis points could occur if certain asset coverage ratio thresholds are not met. Failure to pay off the 2010 Facility on the maturity date or to reduce amounts outstanding below the annual maximum step downs will result in a 90 day extension of the 2010 Facility with the interest rate increasing from LIBOR plus 200 basis points to LIBOR plus 300 basis points over that period. If, at the end of the 90 day extension, these required paydown amounts have not been made, the collateral can be foreclosed upon. Term Asset Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) On February 6, 2009, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York published proposed terms for a program designed to facilitate renewed issuance of consumer and small business ABS at lower interest rate spreads. TALF was initiated on March 17, 2009 and currently provides investors who purchase eligible ABS with funding of up to five years. Eligible ABS include AAA rated student loan ABS backed by FFELP and Private Education Loans first disbursed since May 1, 2007. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $9.4 billion book basis of student loans (including $6.9 billion book basis of Private Education Loans and $2.5 billion book basis of Consolidation Loans) eligible to serve as collateral for ABS funded under TALF; this amount does not include loans eligible for ECASLA financing programs. For student loan collateral, TALF is scheduled to expire on March 31, 2010. On May 5, 2009, we priced a $2.6 billion Private Education Loan securitization which closed on May 12, 2009. The issue bears a coupon of 1 month LIBOR plus 6.0 percent and is callable at the issuers option at 93 percent of the outstanding balance of the ABS between November 15, 2011 and April 16, 2012. If the issue is called on November 15, 2011, we expect the effective cost of the financing will be approximately 1 month LIBOR plus 3.7 percent. This transaction was TALF eligible. On July 2, 2009, we priced a $1.1 billion Private Education Loan securitization which closed on July 14, 2009. The issue bears a coupon of Prime plus 1.25 percent and is callable at the issuers option at 94 percent of the outstanding balance of the ABS between January 16, 2012 and June 15, 2012. If the issue is called on January 16, 2012, we expect the effective cost of the financing will be approximately Prime minus 0.71 percent. This transaction was TALF eligible. On August 5, 2009, we priced a $1.7 billion Private Education Loan securitization which closed on August 13, 2009. The issue bears a coupon of Prime plus 0.25 percent and is callable at the issuers option at 94 percent of the outstanding balance of the ABS between August 15, 2013 and July 15, 2014. If the issue is called on August 15, 2013, we expect the effective cost of the financing will be approximately Prime minus 0.55 percent. This transaction was TALF eligible. On December 2, 2009, we priced a $590 million Private Education Career Training Loan securitization which closed on December 10, 2009. The issue includes one tranche that bears a coupon of Prime minus 0.90 percent and a second tranche that bears a coupon of 1 month LIBOR plus 1.85 percent. This transaction was TALF eligible. Federal Home Loan Bank in Des Moines On January 15, 2010, HICA Education Loan Corporation, a subsidiary of the Company, entered into a lending agreement with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines (the FHLB). Under the agreement, the FHLB will provide advances backed by Federal Housing Finance Agency approved collateral which includes federally guaranteed student loans. The initial borrowing of $25 million at a rate of .23 percent under this facility occurred on January 15, 2010 and matured on January 22, 2010. The amount, price and tenor of future advances will vary and will be determined at the time of each borrowing. The maximum amount that can be borrowed, as of January 15, 2010, subject to available collateral, is approximately $11 billion. The Company has provided a guarantee to the FHLB for the performance and payment of HICAs obligations. 96 Auction Rate Securities At December 31, 2009, we had $3.3 billion of taxable and $1.1 billion of tax exempt auction rate securities outstanding in securitizations and indentured trusts, respectively, on a Managed Basis. Since February 2008, problems in the auction rate securities market as a whole led to failures of the auctions pursuant to which certain of our auction rate securities interest rates are set. As a result, all of the Companys auction rate securities as of December 31, 2009 bore interest at the maximum rate allowable under their terms. The maximum allowable interest rate on our $3.3 billion of taxable auction rate securities is generally LIBOR plus 1.50 percent. The maximum allowable interest rate on many of the Companys $1.1 billion of tax exempt auction rate securities is a formula driven rate, which produced various maximum rates up to 1.14 percent during the fourth quarter of 2009. Since December 31, 2009, certain auction rate securities with short terms to maturity have begun to have successful auctions. Reset Rate Notes Certain tranches of our term ABS are reset rate notes. Reset rate notes are subject to periodic remarketing, at which time the interest rates on the notes are reset. The Company also has the option to repurchase a reset rate note upon a failed remarketing and hold it as an investment until such time it can be remarketed. In the event a reset rate note cannot be remarketed on its remarketing date, and is not repurchased, the interest rate generally steps up to and remains at LIBOR plus 0.75 percent until such time as the bonds are successfully remarketed or repurchased. The Companys repurchase of a reset rate note requires additional funding, the availability and pricing of which may be less favorable to the Company than it was at the time the reset rate note was originally issued. Unlike the repurchase of a reset rate note, the occurrence of a failed remarketing does not require additional funding. As a result of the ongoing dislocation in the capital markets, at December 31, 2009, $1.8 billion of our reset rate notes bore interest at, or were swapped to LIBOR plus 0.75 percent due to a failed remarketing. Until capital markets conditions improve, it is possible additional reset rate notes will experience failed remarketings. On October 26, 2009, the Company successfully remarketed a $590 million reset rate note at LIBOR plus 0.40 percent to maturity. All subsequent remarketings have been unsuccessful. As of December 31, 2009, on a Managed Basis, the Company had $4.3 billion and $2.0 billion of reset rate notes due to be remarketed in 2010 and 2011, respectively, and an additional $6.5 billion to be remarketed thereafter. Senior Unsecured Debt On January 11, 2010, the Company announced that it repurchased $812 million U.S. dollar equivalent face amount of its non U.S. dollar denominated senior unsecured notes through a tender offer which settled on January 14, 2010. This transaction resulted in a taxable gain of approximately $45 million. Primary Sources of Liquidity and Available Capacity We expect to fund our ongoing liquidity needs, including the origination of new loans and the repayment of $5.2 billion of senior unsecured notes maturing in 2010, through our current cash and investment portfolio, cash flow provided by earnings and repayment of principal on unencumbered student loan assets and distributions from our securitization trusts (including servicing fees which have priority payments within the trusts), the liquidity facilities made available by ED, TALF, the 2010 Facility, the issuance of term ABS, term bank deposits, and, to a lesser extent, if possible, unsecured debt and other sources. To supplement our funding sources, we maintained an additional $3.5 billion in unsecured revolving credit facilities as of December 31, 2009; $1.9 billion of our unsecured revolving facilities matures in October 2010 and $1.6 billion matures in October 2011. These figures reflect the amended size of the facilities as a $215 million commitment from Aurora Bank, FSB, formerly known as Lehman Brothers Bank, FSB, a subsidiary of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., was removed from the facility in the fourth quarter of 2009 (see Counterparty Exposure, below). On April 24, 2009, in conjunction with the extension of the 2008 ABCP Facilities, a $1.4 billion revolving credit facility maturing in October 2009 was retired and the $1.9 billion revolving credit facility maturing in October 2011 was reduced to $1.6 billion. The principal financial covenants in the unsecured revolving credit facilities require the Company to maintain consolidated tangible net worth of at least $1.38 billion at all times. Consolidated tangible net worth as calculated for purposes of this covenant was $3.5 billion as of December 31, 97 2009. The covenants also require the Company to meet either a minimum interest coverage ratio or a minimum net adjusted revenue test based on the four preceding quarters adjusted Core Earnings financial performance. The Company was compliant with both of the minimum interest coverage ratio and the minimum net adjusted revenue tests as of the quarter ended December 31, 2009. In the past, we have not relied upon our unsecured revolving credit facilities as a primary source of liquidity. Even though we have never borrowed under these facilities, they are available to be drawn upon for general corporate purposes. During the year, the Companys new financing transactions generated excess liquidity, some of which was used to repurchase $3.4 billion of the Companys short term senior unsecured notes, generating pre tax gains of $536 million. The following table details our main sources of primary liquidity and the available capacity at December 31, 2009 and 2008. December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Available Capacity Available Capacity Sources of primary liquidity available for new FFELP Stafford and PLUS Loan originations: ED Purchase and Participation Programs(1) Unlimited(1 ) Unlimited(1 ) Sources of primary liquidity for general corporate purposes: Unrestricted cash and liquid investments: Cash and cash equivalents $ 6,070 $ 4,070 Commercial paper and asset backed commercial paper 1,150 801 Other(2) 131 133 Total unrestricted cash and liquid investments(3)(4)(5) 7,351 5,004 Unused commercial paper and bank lines of credit 3,485 5,192 2008 FFELP ABCP Facilities(6) 1,703 807 2008 Private Education Loan ABCP Facility 332 Total sources of primary liquidity for general corporate purposes(7) $ 12,539 $ 11,335 (1) The ED Purchase and Participation Programs provide unlimited funding for eligible FFELP Stafford and PLUS Loans made by the Company for the academic years 2008 2009 and 2009 2010. See ED Funding Programs discussed earlier in this section. (2) At December 31, 2009 and 2008, includes $32 million and $97 million, respectively, due from The Reserve Primary Fund (see Counterparty Exposure below). The Company received $32 million from The Reserve Primary Fund on January 29, 2010. (3) At December 31, 2009 and 2008, excludes $25 million and $26 million, respectively, of investments pledged as collateral related to certain derivative positions and $708 million and $82 million, respectively, of other non liquid investments, classified as cash and investments on our balance sheet in accordance with GAAP. (4) At December 31, 2009 and 2008, includes $821 million and $1.6 billion, respectively, of cash collateral pledged by derivative counterparties and held by the Company in unrestricted cash. (5) At December 31, 2009 and 2008, includes $2.4 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, of cash and liquid investments at Sallie Mae Bank, for which Sallie Mae Bank is not authorized to dividend to the Company without FDIC approval. This cash will be used primarily to originate or acquire student loans. (6) Borrowing capacity is subject to availability of collateral. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had $2.1 billion and $5.4 billion, respectively, of outstanding unencumbered FFELP loans, net. (7) General corporate purposes primarily include originating Private Education Loans and repaying unsecured debt as it matures. In addition to the assets listed in the table above, we hold on balance sheet a number of other unencumbered assets, consisting primarily of Private Education Loans, Retained Interests and other assets. At December 31, 2009, we had a total of $31.3 billion of unencumbered assets, including goodwill and acquired intangibles. Total student loans, net, comprised $14.6 billion of this unencumbered asset total of which $12.5 billion relates to Private Education Loans, net. 98 The following table reconciles encumbered and unencumbered assets and their net impact on total equity. December 31, December 31, (Dollars in billions) 2009 2008 Net assets in secured financing facilities $ 14.5 $ 15.6 Unencumbered assets 31.3 36.1 Unsecured debt, term bank deposits, and other borrowings (35.1 ) (42.1 ) ASC 815 mark to market on all hedged debt(1) (3.4 ) (3.4 ) Other liabilities, net (2.0 ) (1.2 ) Total GAAP equity $ 5.3 $ 5.0 (1) At December 31, 2009 and 2008, there are $3.4 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, of net gains on derivatives hedging this debt, which partially offsets these losses. These gains are a part of the net assets in secured financing facilities and unencumbered assets. Counterparty Exposure Counterparty exposure related to financial instruments arises from the risk that a lending, investment or derivative counterparty will not be able to meet its obligations to the Company. Aurora Bank, FSB, formerly known as Lehman Brothers Bank, FSB, a subsidiary of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., was a party to the Companys unsecured revolving credit facilities under which they provided the Company with commitments totaling $215 million as of September 30, 2009. Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. declared bankruptcy on September 15, 2008. The Company and the other banks which are a party to the agreement amended the unsecured revolving credit facilities in the fourth quarter of 2009 to eliminate this commitment. To provide liquidity for future cash needs, we invest in high quality money market investments. At December 31, 2009, the Company had investments of $32 million with The Reserve Primary Fund (The Fund). In September 2008, the Company requested redemption of all monies invested in The Fund prior to The Funds announcement that it suspended distributions as a result of The Funds exposure to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.s bankruptcy filing and The Funds net asset value being below one dollar per share. We were originally informed by The Fund that we would receive our entire investment amount. As of December 31, 2009, we have received a total of $460 million of an initial investment of $500 million from The Fund. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded an impairment of $8 million related to our investment in The Fund in anticipation of losses on our remaining investment. Subsequently, the SEC granted The Fund an indefinite extension to pay distributions as The Fund is being liquidated. On November 25, 2009, the court issued an order providing for (i) the distribution of the remaining assets on a pro rata basis; (ii) an injunction barring all claims against the fund and any of the defendants; and (iii) the appointment of a monitor to oversee the distribution and to review any claims by The Funds advisor or distributor for management fees and expenses. On January 29, 2010, the Company received $32 million from The Fund. Protection against counterparty risk in derivative transactions is generally provided by International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) Credit Support Annexes (CSAs). CSAs require a counterparty to post collateral if a potential default would expose the other party to a loss. The Company is a party to derivative contracts for its corporate purposes and also within its securitization trusts. The Company has CSAs and collateral requirements with all of its derivative counterparties requiring collateral to be exchanged based on the net fair value of derivatives with each counterparty. The Companys securitization trusts require collateral in all cases if the counterpartys credit rating is withdrawn or downgraded below a certain level. If the counterparty does not post the required collateral or is downgraded further, the counterparty must find a suitable replacement counterparty or provide the trust with a letter of credit or a guaranty from an entity that has the required credit ratings. Failure to post the collateral or find a replacement counterparty could result in a termination event under the derivative contract. The Company considers counterparties credit risk when determining the fair value of derivative positions on its exposure net of collateral. Securitizations involving foreign currency notes issued after November 2005 also require the counterparty to post collateral to the trust based on the fair value of the derivative, regardless of credit rating. The trusts are not required to post 99 collateral to the counterparties. If we were unable to collect from a counterparty related to the Company and on balance sheet trust derivatives, we would have a loss equal to the amount the derivative is recorded on our balance sheet. If we were unable to collect from a counterparty related to an off balance sheet trust derivative, the value of our Residual Interest on our balance sheet would be reduced through earnings. The Company has liquidity exposure related to collateral movements between SLM Corporation and its derivative counterparties. The collateral movements can increase or decrease our primary liquidity depending on the nature of the collateral (whether cash or securities), the Companys and counterparties credit ratings and on movements in the value of the derivatives, which are primarily impacted by changes in interest rate and foreign exchange rates. These movements may require the Company to return cash collateral posted or may require the Company to access primary liquidity to post collateral to counterparties. As of December 31, 2009, the Company held $821 million cash collateral in unrestricted cash accounts. If the Companys credit ratings are downgraded from current levels, it may be required to segregate such collateral in restricted accounts. The table below highlights exposure related to our derivative counterparties at December 31, 2009. On Balance Sheet Off Balance Sheet SLM Corporation Securitizations Securitizations Contracts Contracts Contracts Exposure, net of collateral $ 246 $ 1,182 $ 603 Percent of exposure to counterparties with credit ratings below SP AA or Moodys Aa3 56 % 42 % 28 % Percent of exposure to counterparties with credit ratings below SP A or Moodys A3 0 % 0 % 0 % 100 Managed Borrowings The following tables present the ending balances of our Managed borrowings at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, and average balances and average interest rates of our Managed borrowings for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. The average interest rates include derivatives that are economically hedging the underlying debt but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under ASC 815. (See BUSINESS SEGMENTS Limitations of Core Earnings Pre tax Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP by Business Segment Derivative Accounting Reclassification of Realized Gains (Losses) on Derivative and Hedging Activities.) Ending Balances As of December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Ending Balance Ending Balance Ending Balance Total Total Total Short Long Managed Short Long Managed Short Long Managed Term Term Basis Term Term Basis Term Term Basis Unsecured borrowings $ 5,185 $ 22,797 $ 27,982 $ 6,794 $ 31,182 $ 37,976 $ 8,297 $ 36,796 $ 45,093 Unsecured term bank deposits 842 4,795 5,637 1,148 1,108 2,256 254 254 Indentured trusts (on balance sheet) 64 1,533 1,597 31 1,972 2,003 100 2,481 2,581 ED Participation Program facility (on balance sheet)(1) 9,006 9,006 7,365 7,365 ED Conduit Program facility (on balance sheet) 14,314 14,314 ABCP borrowings (on balance sheet)(2) 8,801 8,801 24,768 24,768 25,960 67 26,027 Securitizations (on balance sheet) 89,200 89,200 80,601 80,601 68,048 68,048 Securitizations (off balance sheet) 33,615 33,615 37,159 37,159 42,088 42,088 Other 1,472 1,472 1,827 1,827 1,342 1,342 Total $ 30,883 $ 160,741 $ 191,624 $ 41,933 $ 152,022 $ 193,955 $ 35,953 $ 149,480 $ 185,433 (1) The Company has the option of paying off this amount with cash or by putting the loans to ED as previously discussed. (2) Includes $1.9 billion outstanding in the 2008 Asset Backed Loan Facility at December 31, 2008. There was no outstanding balance at December 31, 2009 or December 31, 2007. Average Balances Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Average Average Average Average Average Average Balance Rate Balance Rate Balance Rate Unsecured borrowings $ 31,863 1.93 % $ 39,794 3.65 % $ 46,095 5.58 % Unsecured term bank deposits 4,754 3.50 854 4.07 166 5.26 Indentured trusts (on balance sheet) 1,811 1.07 2,363 3.90 2,768 4.90 ED Participation Program facility (on balance sheet) 14,174 1.43 1,727 3.43 ED Conduit Program facility (on balance sheet) 7,340 .75 ABCP borrowings (on balance sheet)(1) 16,239 2.93 24,855 5.27 13,938 5.85 Securitizations (on balance sheet) 85,612 1.38 76,028 3.26 62,765 5.55 Securitizations (off balance sheet) 35,377 .82 39,625 3.11 45,733 5.68 Other 1,391 .31 2,063 2.35 637 4.85 Total $ 198,561 1.51 % $ 187,309 3.58 % $ 172,102 5.60 % (1) Includes the 2008 Asset Backed Loan Facility. 101 Unsecured On Balance Sheet Financing Activities The following table presents the senior unsecured credit ratings assigned by major rating agencies as of February 26, 2010. Moodys SP Fitch Short term unsecured debt Not Prime A 3 F3 Long term senior unsecured debt Ba1 BBB BBB The table below presents our unsecured on balance sheet funding by funding source for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. Debt Issued For The Years Outstanding at Ended December 31, December 31, 2009 2008 2009 2008 Retail notes $ $ $ 3,471 $ 3,914 Foreign currency denominated notes(1) 9,230 12,127 Extendible notes 1,464 Global notes (Institutional) 2,437 14,694 19,874 Medium term notes (Institutional) 587 597 Total unsecured corporate borrowings 2,437 27,982 37,976 Unsecured term bank deposits 4,531 2,845 5,637 2,256 Total $ 4,531 $ 5,282 $ 33,619 $ 40,232 (1) All foreign currency denominated notes are hedged using derivatives that exchange the foreign denomination for U.S. dollars. 102 Securitization Activities Securitization Program The following table summarizes our securitization activity for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Those securitizations listed as sales are off balance sheet transactions and those listed as financings remain on balance sheet. Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Loan Loan Loan No. of Amount Pre Tax Gain No. of Amount Pre Tax Gain No. of Amount Pre Tax Gain Transactions Securitized Gain % Transactions Securitized Gain % Transactions Securitized Gain % Securitizations sales: FFELP Stafford/PLUS Loans $ $ % $ $ % $ $ % FFELP Consolidation Loans Private Education Loans 1 2,001 367 18.4 Total securitizations sales $ % $ % 1 2,001 $ 367 18.4 % Securitizations financings: FFELP Stafford/PLUS Loans(1) 9 18,546 3 8,955 FFELP Consolidation Loans(1)(2) 3 5,339 5 14,476 Private Education Loans(1) 5 11,122 Total securitizations financings 8 16,461 9 18,546 8 23,431 Total securitizations 8 $ 16,461 9 $ 18,546 9 $ 25,432 (1) In certain securitizations there are terms within the deal structure that result in such securitizations not qualifying for sale treatment and, accordingly, they are accounted for on balance sheet as VIEs. Terms that prevent sale treatment include: (1) allowing the Company to hold certain rights that can affect the remarketing of certain bonds, (2) allowing the trust to enter into interest rate cap agreements (which do not relate to the reissuance of third party beneficial interests) after initial settlement of the securitization or (3) allowing the Company to hold an unconditional call option related to a certain percentage of the securitized assets. (2) In addition to the transactions listed in the above table, the Company settled on a repackaging trust and issued new asset backed securities in the amount of $1.0 billion. The debt issued is collateralized by reset rate notes totaling $1.2 billion. 103 Residual Interest in Securitized Receivables The following tables summarize the fair value of our Residual Interests and the assumptions used to value such Residual Interests, along with the underlying off balance sheet student loans that relate to those securitizations in securitization transactions that were treated as sales as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. As of December 31, 2009 FFELP Consolidation Private Stafford and Loan Education PLUS Trusts(1) Loan Trusts Total Fair value of Residual Interests $ 243 $ 791 $ 794 $ 1,828 Underlying securitized loan balance 5,377 14,369 12,986 32,732 Weighted average life 3.3 yrs. 9.0 yrs. 6.3 yrs Prepayment speed (annual rate)(2) Interim status 0 % N/A 0 % Repayment status 0 14 % 2 4 % 2 15 % Life of loan repayment status 9 % 3 % 6 % Expected remaining credit losses (% of outstanding student loan principal)(3)(4) .10 % .25 % 5.31 % Residual cash flows discount rate 10.6 % 12.3 % 27.5 % As of December 31, 2008 FFELP Consolidation Private Stafford and Loan Education PLUS Trusts(1) Loan Trusts Total Fair value of Residual Interests $ 250 $ 918 $ 1,032 $ 2,200 Underlying securitized loan balance 7,057 15,077 13,690 35,824 Weighted average life 3.0 yrs. 8.1 yrs. 6.4 yrs. Prepayment speed (annual rate)(2) Interim status 0 % N/A 0 % Repayment status 2 19 % 1 6 % 2 15 % Life of loan repayment status 12 % 4 % 6 % Expected remaining credit losses (% of outstanding student loan principal)(3)(4) .11 % .23 % 5.22 % Residual cash flows discount rate 13.1 % 11.9 % 26.3 % (1) Includes $569 million and $762 million related to the fair value of the Embedded Floor Income as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Changes in the fair value of the Embedded Floor Income are primarily due to changes in the interest rates and the pay down of the underlying loans. (2) The Company uses CPR curves for Residual Interest valuations that are based on seasoning (the number of months since entering repayment). Under this methodology, a different CPR is applied to each year of a loans seasoning. Repayment status CPR used is based on the number of months since first entering repayment (seasoning). Life of loan CPR is related to repayment status only and does not include the impact of the loan while in interim status. The CPR assumption used for all periods includes the impact of projected defaults. (3) Remaining expected credit losses as of the respective balance sheet date. (4) For Private Education Loan trusts, estimated defaults from settlement to maturity are 12.2 percent and 9.1 percent at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These estimated defaults do not include recoveries related to defaults but do include prior purchases of loans at par by the Company when loans reached 180 days delinquency (prior to default) under a contingent call option. Although these loan purchases do not result in a realized loss to the trust, the Company has included them here. Not including these purchases in the disclosure would result in estimated defaults of 9.3 percent and 6.1 percent at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 104 Off Balance Sheet Net Assets The following table summarizes our off balance sheet net assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008 on a basis equivalent to our GAAP on balance sheet trusts, which presents the assets and liabilities in the off balance sheet trusts as if they were being accounted for on balance sheet rather than off balance sheet. This presentation, therefore, includes a theoretical calculation of the premiums on student loans, the allowance for loan losses, and the discounts and deferred financing costs on the debt. However, this presentation does not include any impact of accounting under ASC 815 or ASC 830 for trust derivatives or foreign currency denominated debt. This presentation is not, nor is it intended to be, a liquidation basis of accounting. (See also LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT Summary of our Managed Student Loan Portfolio Ending Managed Student Loan Balances, net and LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Managed Borrowings Ending Balances earlier in this section.) December 31, December 31, 2009 2008 Off Balance Sheet Assets: Total student loans, net $ 32,611 $ 35,591 Restricted cash and investments 1,055 1,557 Accrued interest receivable 537 937 Total off balance sheet assets 34,203 38,085 Off Balance Sheet Liabilities: Debt, par value 33,583 37,228 Debt, unamortized discount and deferred issuance costs (77 ) (69 ) Total debt 33,506 37,159 Accrued interest payable 25 166 Total off balance sheet liabilities 33,531 37,325 Off Balance Sheet Net Assets $ 672 $ 760 Servicing and Securitization Revenue Servicing and securitization revenue, the ongoing revenue from securitized loan pools accounted for off balance sheet as QSPEs, includes the interest earned on the Residual Interest asset and the revenue we receive for servicing the loans in the securitization trusts. 105 The following table summarizes the components of servicing and securitization revenue for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Servicing revenue $ 226 $ 247 $ 285 Securitization revenue, before net Embedded Floor Income, impairment and unrealized fair value adjustment 309 323 419 Servicing and securitization revenue, before net Embedded Floor Income, impairment and unrealized fair value adjustment 535 570 704 Embedded Floor Income 284 191 20 Less: Floor Income previously recognized in gain calculation (214 ) (76 ) (9 ) Net Embedded Floor Income 70 115 11 Servicing and securitization revenue, before impairment and unrealized fair value adjustment 605 685 715 Unrealized fair value adjustment (330 ) (425 ) (24 ) Gain on consolidation of off balance sheet trusts 20 2 Retained Interest impairment (254 ) Total servicing and securitization revenue $ 295 $ 262 $ 437 Average off balance sheet student loans $ 34,414 $ 37,586 $ 42,411 Average balance of Retained Interest $ 1,911 $ 2,596 $ 3,385 Servicing and securitization revenue as a percentage of the average balance of off balance sheet student loans .86 % .70 % 1.03 % Servicing and securitization revenue is primarily driven by the average balance of off balance sheet student loans, the amount of and the difference in the timing of Embedded Floor Income recognition for off balance sheet student loans and the unrealized fair value adjustments. The Company recorded net unrealized mark to market losses of $330 million, $425 million and $24 million in the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to the Residual Interest. As of December 31, 2009, the Company changed the following significant assumptions compared to those used as of December 31, 2008, to determine the fair value of the Residual Interests: Prepayment speed assumptions on FFELP Stafford and Consolidation Loans were decreased. This change reflects the significant decrease in prepayment activity experienced since 2008. This decrease in prepayment activity, which the Company expects will continue into the foreseeable future, was primarily due to a reduction in third party consolidation activity as a result of the CCRAA and the current U.S. economic and credit environment. This resulted in a $61 million unrealized mark to market gain. Life of loan default rate assumptions for Private Education Loans were increased from 9.1 percent to 12.2 percent as a result of the continued weakening of the U.S. economy. This resulted in a $426 million unrealized mark to market loss. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had changed the following significant assumptions compared to those used as of December 31, 2007, to determine the fair value of the Residual Interests: Prepayment speed assumptions were decreased for all three asset types primarily as a result of a significant reduction in prepayment activity experienced, which is expected to continue into the foreseeable future. The decrease in prepayment speeds was primarily due to a reduction in third party consolidation activity as a result of the CCRAA (for FFELP only) and the current U.S. economic and credit environment. This resulted in a $114 million unrealized mark to market gain. 106 Life of loan default rate assumptions for Private Education Loans were increased as a result of the continued weakening of the U.S. economy. This resulted in a $79 million unrealized mark to market loss. Cost of funds assumptions related to the underlying auction rate securities bonds ($2.3 billion face amount of bonds) within FFELP loan ($1.7 billion face amount of bonds) and Private Education Loan ($0.6 billion face amount of bonds) trusts were increased to take into account the expectations these auction rate securities would continue to reset at higher rates for an extended period of time. This resulted in a $116 million unrealized mark to market loss. The discount rate assumption related to the Private Education Loan and FFELP Residual Interests was increased. The Company assessed the appropriateness of the current risk premium, which was added to the risk free rate for the purpose of arriving at a discount rate, in light of the current economic and credit uncertainty that existed in the market as of December 31, 2008. This discount rate was applied to the projected cash flows to arrive at a fair value representative of the then current economic conditions. The Company increased the risk premium by 1,550 basis points and 390 basis points for Private Education and FFELP, respectively, to take into account the then current level of cash flow uncertainty and lack of liquidity that existed with the Residual Interests. This resulted in a $904 million unrealized mark to market loss. The Company recorded net unrealized mark to market losses related to the Residual Interests of $425 million during the year ended December 31, 2008. The mark to market losses were primarily related to the increase in the discount rate assumptions discussed above which resulted in a $904 million mark to market loss. This was partially offset by an unrealized mark to market gain of $555 million related to the Floor Income component of the Residual Interest primarily due to the significant decrease in interest rates from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008. The Company recorded impairments to the Retained Interests of $254 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. The impairment charges were the result of FFELP loans prepaying faster than projected through loan consolidations ($110 million), impairment to the Floor Income component of the Companys Retained Interest due to increases in interest rates during the period ($24 million), and increases in prepayments, defaults, and the discount rate related to Private Education Loans ($120 million). CONTRACTUAL CASH OBLIGATIONS The following table provides a summary of our obligations associated with long term notes at December 31, 2009. For further discussion of these obligations, see Note 7, Borrowings, to the consolidated financial statements. The Company has no outstanding equity forward positions outstanding after the contract settlement on January 9, 2008. See Note 11, Stockholders Equity, to the consolidated financial statements. 1 Year 2 to 3 4 to 5 Over or Less Years Years 5 Years Total Long term notes: Unsecured borrowings $ $ 8,569 $ 7,936 $ 6,292 $ 22,797 Unsecured term bank deposits 3,122 1,614 59 4,795 Secured borrowings(1)(2) 6,883 23,706 15,202 53,743 99,534 Total contractual cash obligations(3) $ 6,883 $ 35,397 $ 24,752 $ 60,094 $ 127,126 (1) Includes long term beneficial interests of $89.2 billion of notes issued by consolidated VIEs in conjunction with our on balance sheet securitization transactions and included in long term notes in the consolidated balance sheet. Timing of obligations is estimated based on the Companys current projection of prepayment speeds of the securitized assets. (2) Includes $8.8 billion of 2008 Asset Backed Financing Facilities. On December 31, 2009, ABCP borrowings were reclassified to long term as the facility was renegotiated on January 15, 2010, resulting in the maturity date being greater than one year from December 31, 2009. (3) Only includes principal obligations and specifically excludes ASC 815 derivative market value adjustments of $3.4 billion for long term notes. Interest obligations on notes is predominantly variable in nature, resetting quarterly based on 3 month LIBOR. 107 Unrecognized tax benefits were $101 million and $81 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. For additional information, see Note 19, Income Taxes, to the consolidated financial statements. OFF BALANCE SHEET LENDING ARRANGEMENTS We have issued lending related financial instruments, including lines of credit, to meet the financing needs of our institutional customers. In connection with these agreements, the Company also enters into a participation agreement with the institution to participate in the loans as they are originated. In the event that a line of credit is drawn upon, the loan is collateralized by underlying student loans and is usually participated on the same day. The contractual amount of these financial instruments, $850 million at December 31, 2009, represents the maximum possible credit risk should the counterparty draw down the commitment, the Company does not participate in the loan, and the counterparty subsequently fails to perform according to the terms of our contract. The remaining total contractual amount available to be borrowed under these commitments is $850 million. All commitments mature in 2010. We do not believe that these instruments are representative of our actual future credit exposure. To the extent that the lines of credit are drawn upon, the balance outstanding is collateralized by student loans. At December 31, 2009, there were no outstanding draws on lines of credit. For additional information, see Note 17, Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements. The Company maintains forward contracts to purchase loans from our lending partners at contractual prices. These contracts typically have a maximum amount we are committed to buy, but lack a fixed or determinable amount as it ultimately is based on the lending partners origination activity. FFELP forward purchase contracts typically contain language relieving us of most of our responsibilities under the contract due to, among other things, changes in student loan legislation. These commitments are not accounted for as derivatives under ASC 815 as they do not meet the definition of a derivative due to the lack of a fixed and determinable purchase amount. At December 31, 2009, there were $1.3 billion originated loans (FFELP and Private Education Loans) in the pipeline that the Company was committed to purchase. MANAGEMENT OF RISKS Significant risks that affect the Company may be grouped into the following categories: (1) funding and liquidity; (2) operations; (3) political/reputation; (4) market competition; (5) credit and counterparty; and (6) regulatory and compliance. These risks are discussed in the Item 1A. Risk Factors section of this document. Managements strategies for managing these risks are discussed below. Risk Management Processes Risk management is a shared responsibility throughout the Company. The Board of Directors and its committees oversee significant risks and review the Companys risk management practices. Executive management is responsible for monitoring and assessing the Companys significant risks. Committees composed of management oversee many of these risks. Also, senior managers of each business division have direct and primary responsibility and accountability for managing risks specific to their operations by identifying and assessing risks, implementing internal controls and reporting control issues to the Companys Risk Assessment Department. The Risk Assessment Department monitors these efforts, identifies areas that require increased focus and resources, and reports significant control issues to executive management and the Audit Committee of the Board. The Companys centralized staff functions, such as accounting, compliance, credit risk, human resources and legal, further strengthen our risk controls. At least annually, the Risk Assessment Department performs a risk assessment to identify the Companys top risks, which supports the development of the internal audit plan. The risk assessment process is based on the risk universe of the Company and solicits input from over 200 managers in the Company regarding effectiveness of internal controls, compliance with laws and regulations and the adequacy of anti fraud programs, and is the basis for the Companys internal audit plan. Risks are rated on significance and likelihood of occurrence. Risks with the greatest significance and highest likelihood of occurrence are prioritized for 108 attention and resources from management and designated for the appropriate management committee and or committee of the Board for oversight. Management risk committees and their primary responsibility are as follows: Consumer Products and Services Assessment Committee reviews new products and services, including operational implications; Credit Committee: establishes, approves and enforces credit lending policies and practices; Compliance Committee: advises on and reviews regulatory compliance; Asset/Liability Committee: manages market, interest rate and balance sheet risk, and investments; Disclosure Committee: manages risk of compliance with SEC disclosure obligations; Critical Accounting Assumptions Committee: reviews key critical accounting assumptions, judgments and estimates and manages risk of compliance with financial reporting requirements; Information Technology Steering Committee: manages security and confidentiality of information and effectiveness of IT infrastructure; Business Continuity Steering Committee: manages risk of emergency loss of IT and other infrastructure resources; Allowance for Loan Loss Steering Committee approves the loan loss reserve based upon review of assumptions and estimates involved in the calculation; Internal Controls Excellence Steering Committee: monitors internal controls and compliance with the Sarbanes Oxley Act; and Regulation Dissemination and Implementation Committee: monitors and disseminates changes in regulations affecting the business lines and advises on implementation of changes where applicable. The formal risk management process represents only one portion of our overall risk management framework. Our Code of Business Conduct and the on going training our employees receive in many compliance areas provide a framework for employees to conduct themselves with the highest integrity. We instill a risk conscious culture through communications, training, policies and procedures and organizational roles and responsibilities. We have strengthened the linkage between the management performance process and individual compensation to encourage employees to work toward corporate wide compliance goals. Liquidity Risk Management Liquidity is the ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, fund asset growth and business operations, and meet contractual obligations at reasonable market rates. Liquidity management involves forecasting funding requirements and maintaining sufficient capacity to meet the needs and accommodate fluctuations in asset and liability levels due to changes in our business operations or unanticipated events. Sources of liquidity include wholesale market based funding, temporary federal government programs and deposits at Sallie Mae Bank. The Finance Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for approving the Companys Asset and Liability Management Policy. The Finance Committee of the Board and, in some cases, the full Board, monitor the Companys liquidity on an ongoing basis. The Corporate Finance Department is responsible for planning and executing our funding activities and strategy. In order to ensure adequate liquidity through the full range of potential operating environments and market conditions, we conduct our liquidity management and business activities in a manner that will preserve and enhance funding stability, flexibility and diversity. Key components of this operating strategy include maintaining direct relationships with wholesale market funding providers and maintaining the ability to liquidate unencumbered assets if necessary. For a further discussion of our liquidity and capital resources and 109 the sources and uses of liquidity see the LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES section of this Form 10 K. Credit Risk Management The Companys Chief Credit Officer reports, on a regular basis, to the Board regarding the Companys asset quality. In addition, during 2009, the Chief Credit Officer commenced reporting, on a regular basis, to the Audit Committee of the Board regarding asset quality. Private credit is managed within a credit risk infrastructure which includes (i) a well defined underwriting and collection policy framework; (ii) an ongoing monitoring and review process of portfolio segments and trends; (iii) assignment and management of credit authorities and responsibilities; and (iv) establishment of an allowance that covers estimated losses based upon portfolio and economic analysis. Private Education Loans are underwritten and priced according to the risk profile of the borrower, generally determined by a custom credit scoring system and the Companys proprietary underwriting process. Additionally, for borrowers who do not meet our lending requirements or who desire more favorable terms, we generally require credit worthy cosigners. The Company bears the full risk of loss of these loans. Probable losses for Private Education Loans are based upon statistical analysis of inherent losses over specific periods of time and are estimated using sophisticated portfolio modeling, credit scoring and decision support tools to project credit losses. Potential credit losses are considered in our risk based pricing model. The performance of the Private Education Loan portfolio may be affected by borrowers who fail to complete their education and by the economy. A prolonged economic downturn may have an adverse effect on our credit performance. This is taken into account when establishing allowances to cover estimated losses. We have credit risk exposure to the various counterparties with whom we have entered into derivative contracts. We review the credit strength of these companies on an ongoing basis. Our credit policies place limits on the amount of exposure we may take with any one counterparty and, in most cases, require collateral to secure the position. The credit risk associated with derivatives is measured based on the replacement cost should the counterparties with contracts in a gain position to the Company fail to perform under the terms of the contract. Credit risk in our investment portfolio is minimized by only investing in paper with highly rated issuers. Additionally, limits per issuer are determined by our internal credit and investment guidelines to limit our exposure to any one issuer. We also have credit risk with several higher education institutions related to academic facilities loans secured by real estate. Market and Interest Rate Risk Management We measure interest rate risk by calculating the variability of net interest income in future periods under various interest rate scenarios using projected balances for interest earning assets, interest bearing liabilities and derivatives used to hedge interest rate risk. Many assumptions are utilized by management to calculate the impact that changes in interest rates may have on net interest income, the more significant of which are related to student loan volumes and pricing, the timing of cash flows from our student loan portfolio, particularly the impact of Floor Income, and the rate of student loan consolidations, basis risk, credit spreads and the maturity of our debt and derivatives. Asset and Liability Funding Gap The tables below present our assets and liabilities (funding) arranged by underlying indices as of December 31, 2009. In the following GAAP presentation, the funding gap only includes derivatives that qualify as effective ASC 815 hedges (those derivatives which are reflected in net interest margin, as opposed to those reflected in the gains/(losses) on derivatives and hedging activities, net line on the consolidated statements of income). The difference between the asset and the funding is the funding gap for the specified index. This represents our exposure to interest rate risk in the form of basis risk and repricing risk, which is 110 the risk that the different indices may reset at different frequencies or may not move in the same direction or at the same magnitude. Management analyzes interest rate risk on a Managed Basis, which consists of both on balance sheet and off balance sheet assets and liabilities and includes all derivatives that are economically hedging our debt, whether they qualify as effective hedges under ASC 815 or not. Accordingly, we are also presenting the asset and liability funding gap on a Managed Basis in the table that follows the GAAP presentation. GAAP Basis Frequency of Index Variable Funding (Dollars in billions) Resets Assets Funding(1) Gap 3 month Commercial paper(2) daily $ 112.6 $ 9.1 $ 103.5 3 month Treasury bill weekly 6.4 .1 6.3 Prime annual .5 .5 Prime quarterly 1.3 1.3 Prime monthly 16.9 16.9 Prime daily 3.1 (3.1 ) PLUS Index annual .5 .5 3 month LIBOR daily 3 month LIBOR quarterly 103.4 (103.4 ) 1 month LIBOR monthly 5.2 5.7 (.5 ) CMT/CPI Index monthly/quarterly 2.6 (2.6 ) Non Discrete reset(3) monthly 25.3 (25.3 ) Non Discrete reset(4) daily/weekly 13.1 1.9 11.2 Fixed Rate(5) 13.5 18.8 (5.3 ) Total $ 170.0 $ 170.0 $ (1) Funding includes all derivatives that qualify as hedges under ASC 815. (2) Funding includes $9.0 billion of ED Participation Program facility which resets based on the prior quarter student loan commercial paper index. (3) Funding consists of auction rate securities, the 2008 ABCP Facilities and the ED Conduit Program facility. (4) Assets include restricted and non restricted cash equivalents and other overnight type instruments. (5) Assets include receivables and other assets (including Retained Interests, goodwill and acquired intangibles). Funding includes other liabilities and stockholders equity (excluding Series B Preferred Stock). The Funding Gaps in the above table are primarily interest rate mismatches in short term indices between our assets and liabilities. We address this issue typically through the use of basis swaps that typically convert quarterly three month LIBOR to other indices that are more correlated to our asset indices. These basis swaps do not qualify as effective hedges under ASC 815 and as a result the effect on the funding index is not included in our interest margin and is therefore excluded from the GAAP presentation. 111 Managed Basis Frequency of Index Variable Funding (Dollars in billions) Resets Assets Funding(1) Gap 3 month Commercial paper(2) daily $ 130.6 $ 9.1 $ 121.5 3 month Treasury bill weekly 8.6 5.9 2.7 Prime annual .9 .9 Prime quarterly 6.0 1.5 4.5 Prime monthly 24.2 11.8 12.4 Prime daily 3.1 (3.1 ) PLUS Index annual .5 .1 .4 3 month LIBOR(3) daily 82.4 (82.4 ) 3 month LIBOR quarterly 21.3 (21.3 ) 1 month LIBOR monthly 5.2 13.6 (8.4 ) 1 month LIBOR daily 8.0 (8.0 ) Non Discrete reset(4) monthly 26.3 (26.3 ) Non Discrete reset(5) daily/weekly 14.2 1.5 12.7 Fixed Rate(6) 10.1 15.7 (5.6 ) Total $ 200.3 $ 200.3 $ (1) Funding includes all derivatives that management considers economic hedges of interest rate risk and reflects how we internally manage our interest rate exposure. (2) Funding includes $9.0 billion of ED Participation Program facility which resets based on the prior quarter student loan commercial paper index. (3) Funding includes $1.4 billion of auction rate securities. (4) Funding consists of auction rate securities, the 2008 ABCP Facilities and the ED Conduit Program facility. (5) Assets include restricted and non restricted cash equivalents and other overnight type instruments. (6) Assets include receivables and other assets (including Retained Interests, goodwill and acquired intangibles). Funding includes other liabilities and stockholders equity (excluding Series B Preferred Stock). We use interest rate swaps and other derivatives to achieve our risk management objectives. To the extent possible, we fund our assets with debt (in combination with derivatives) that has the same underlying index (index type and index reset frequency). When it is more economical, we also fund our assets with debt that has a different index and or reset frequency than the asset, but only in instances where we believe there is a high degree of correlation between the interest rate movement of the two indices. For example, we use daily reset three month LIBOR to fund a large portion of our daily reset three month commercial paper indexed assets. In addition, we use quarterly reset three month LIBOR to fund a portion of our quarterly reset Prime rate indexed Private Education Loans. We also use our monthly Non Discrete reset and 1 month LIBOR funding to fund various asset types. In using different index types and different index reset frequencies to fund our assets, we are exposed to interest rate risk in the form of basis risk and repricing risk, which is the risk that the different indices that may reset at different frequencies will not move in the same direction or at the same magnitude. While we believe that this risk is low, as all of these indices are short term with rate movements that are highly correlated over a long period of time, market disruptions can lead to a temporary divergence between indices as was experienced beginning in the second half of 2007 through the second quarter of 2009 with the commercial paper and LIBOR indices. As of December 31, 2009, on a Managed Basis, we have approximately $107.2 billion of FFELP loans indexed to three month commercial paper (3M CP) that are funded with debt indexed to LIBOR. See LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT in MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS for further discussion of this CP/LIBOR relationship. 112 When compared with the GAAP presentation, the Managed Basis presentation includes all of our off balance sheet assets and funding, and also includes basis swaps that primarily convert quarterly three month LIBOR to other indices that are more correlated to our asset indices. Weighted Average Life The following table reflects the weighted average life for our Managed earning assets and liabilities at December 31, 2009. December 31, 2009 On Balance (Averages in Years) Sheet Managed Earning assets Student loans 7.9 7.9 Other loans 6.4 6.4 Cash and investments .1 .1 Total earning assets 7.3 7.3 Borrowings Short term borrowings .5 .5 Long term borrowings 6.6 6.7 Total borrowings 5.4 5.7 Long term debt issuances likely to be called by us or putable by the investor have been categorized according to their call or put dates rather than their maturity dates. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Exposure Foreign currency exchange rate exposure is primarily the result of foreign denominated liabilities issued by the Company. Cross currency interest rate swaps are used to lock in the exchange rate for the term of the liability. 113 COMMON STOCK The following table summarizes the Companys common share repurchases and issuances for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Equity forward activity for the year ended December 31, 2007 is also reported. Years Ended December 31, (Shares in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Common shares repurchased: Open market 1.8 Equity forward contracts 4.2 Equity forward contracts agreed to be settled(1) 44.0 Benefit plans(2) .3 1.0 3.3 Total shares repurchased .3 1.0 53.3 Average purchase price per share $ 20.29 $ 24.51 $ 44.59 Common shares issued 17.8 1.9 109.2 Equity forward contracts: Outstanding at beginning of period 48.2 New contracts Settlements (4.2 ) Agreed to be settled(1) (44.0 ) Outstanding at end of period Authority remaining at end of period for repurchases 38.8 38.8 38.8 (1) On December 31, 2007, the Company and Citibank agreed to physically settle the contract as detailed below. Consequently, the common shares outstanding and shareholders equity on the Companys year end balance sheet reflect the physical settlement of the equity forward contract. As of December 31, 2007, the 44 million shares under this equity forward contract are reflected in treasury stock. (2) Shares withheld from stock option exercises and vesting of restricted stock for employees tax withholding obligations and shares tendered by employees to satisfy option exercise costs. Beginning on November 29, 2007, the Company amended or closed out certain equity forward contracts. On December 19, 2007, the Company entered into a series of transactions with its equity forward counterparties and Citibank to assign all of its remaining equity forward contracts, covering 44,039,890 shares, to Citibank. In connection with the assignment of the equity forward contracts, the Company and Citibank amended the terms of the equity forward contract to eliminate all stock price triggers (which had previously allowed the counterparty to terminate the contracts prior to their scheduled maturity date) and termination events based on the Companys credit ratings. The strike price of the equity forward contract on December 19, 2007, was $45.25 with a maturity date of February 22, 2008. The new Citibank equity forward contract was 100 percent collateralized with cash. On December 31, 2007, the Company and Citibank agreed to physically settle the contract and the Company paid Citibank approximately $1.1 billion, the difference between the contract purchase price and the previous market closing price on the 44,039,890 shares. Consequently, the common shares outstanding and shareholders equity on the Companys year end balance sheet reflect the shares issued in the public offerings and the physical settlement of the equity forward contract. As of December 31, 2007, the 44 million shares under this equity forward contract are reflected in treasury stock. The Company paid Citibank the remaining balance of approximately $0.9 billion due under the contract on January 9, 2008. The Company now has no outstanding equity forward positions. On December 31, 2007, the Company issued 101,781,170 shares of its common stock at a price of $19.65 per share. Net proceeds from the sale were approximately $1.9 billion. The Company used approximately $2.0 billion of the net proceeds from the sale of Series C Preferred Stock and the sale of its common stock to 114 settle its outstanding equity forward contract (see Note 11, Stockholders Equity, to the consolidated financial statements for a further discussion). The remaining proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. The Company issued 9,781,170 shares of the 102 million share offering from its treasury stock. These shares were removed from treasury stock at an average cost of $43.13, resulting in a $422 million decrease to the balance of treasury stock with an offsetting $235 million decrease to retained earnings. During 2009, the Company converted $339 million of its Series C Preferred Stock to common stock. As part of this conversion, the Company delivered to the holders of the preferred stock: (1) approximately 17 million shares (the number of common shares they would most likely receive if the preferred stock they held mandatorily converted to common shares in the fourth quarter of 2010) plus (2) a discounted amount of the preferred stock dividends the holders of the preferred stock would have received if they held the preferred stock through the mandatory conversion date. The accounting treatment for this conversion resulted in additional expense recorded as part of preferred stock dividends for the year of approximately $53 million. The closing price of the Companys common stock on December 31, 2009 was $11.27. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS See Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies Recently Issued Accounting Standards. to the consolidated financial statements. 115 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis The Companys interest rate risk management seeks to limit the impact of short term movements in interest rates on our results of operations and financial position. The following tables summarize the effect on earnings for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 and the effect on fair values at December 31, 2009 and 2008, based upon a sensitivity analysis performed by management assuming a hypothetical increase in market interest rates of 100 basis points and 300 basis points while funding spreads remain constant. Additionally, as it relates to the effect on earnings, a sensitivity analysis was performed assuming the funding index increases 25 basis points while holding the asset index constant, if the funding index is different than the asset index. Both of these analyses do not consider any potential impairment to our Residual Interests that may result from asset and funding basis divergence or a higher discount rate that would be used to compute the present value of the cash flows if long term interest rates increased. See Note 8, Student Loan Securitization, to the consolidated financial statements which details the potential decrease to the fair value of the Residual Interest that could occur under the referenced interest rate environment. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Asset Interest Rates: and Funding Change from Change from Index Increase of Increase of Mismatches(1) 100 Basis 300 Basis Increase of Points Points 25 Basis Points (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) $ % $ % $ % Effect on Earnings Increase/(decrease) in pre tax net income before unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities $ (70 ) (7 )% $ (31 ) (3 )% $ (321 ) (31 )% Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities 108 33 18 5 106 33 Increase in net income before taxes $ 38 5 % $ (13 ) (2 )% $ (215 ) (30 )% Increase in diluted earnings per common share $ .080 21 % $ (.027 ) (7 )% $ (.456 ) (120 )% Year Ended December 31, 2008 Asset Interest Rates: and Funding Change from Change from Index Increase of Increase of Mismatches(1) 100 Basis 300 Basis Increase of Points Points 25 Basis Points (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) $ % $ % $ % Effect on Earnings Increase/(decrease) in pre tax net income before unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities $ (6 ) (3 )% $ 13 7 % $ (297 ) (162 )% Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities 460 82 956 171 95 17 Increase in net income before taxes $ 454 121 % $ 969 258 % $ (202 ) (54 )% Increase in diluted earnings per common share $ .974 141 % $ 2.076 301 % $ (.433 ) (63 )% (1) If an asset is not funded with the same index/frequency reset of the asset then it is assumed the funding index increases 25 basis points while holding the asset index constant. 116 At December 31, 2009 Interest Rates: Change from Change from Increase of Increase of 100 Basis 300 Basis Points Points (Dollars in millions) Fair Value $ % $ % Effect on Fair Values Assets Total FFELP loans $ 119,747 $ (470 ) % $ (979 ) (1 )% Private Education Loans 20,278 Other earning assets 13,472 (4 ) (11 ) Other assets 12,506 (690 ) (6 ) (1,266 ) (10 ) Total assets $ 166,003 $ (1,164 ) (1 )% $ (2,256 ) (1 )% Liabilities Interest bearing liabilities $ 154,037 $ (852 ) (1 )% $ (2,159 ) (1 )% Other liabilities 3,263 (21 ) (1 ) 547 (17 ) Total liabilities $ 157,300 $ (873 ) (1 )% $ (1,612 ) (1 )% At December 31, 2008 Interest Rates: Change from Change from Increase of Increase of 100 Basis 300 Basis Points Points (Dollars in millions) Fair Value $ % $ % Effect on Fair Values Assets Total FFELP loans $ 107,319 $ (758 ) (1 )% $ (1,602 ) (1 )% Private Education Loans 14,141 Other earning assets 9,265 (9 ) (25 ) Other assets 14,590 (848 ) (6 ) (2,108 ) (14 ) Total assets $ 145,315 $ (1,615 ) (1 )% $ (3,735 ) (3 )% Liabilities Interest bearing liabilities $ 135,070 $ (837 ) (1 )% $ (2,500 ) (2 )% Other liabilities 3,604 (293 ) (8 ) (273 ) (8 ) Total liabilities $ 138,674 $ (1,130 ) (1 )% $ (2,773 ) (2 )% A primary objective in our funding is to minimize our sensitivity to changing interest rates by generally funding our floating rate student loan portfolio with floating rate debt. However, as discussed under LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT Summary of our Managed Student Loan Portfolio Floor Income Managed Basis, we can have a fixed versus floating mismatch in funding if the student loan earns at the fixed borrower rate and the funding remains floating. In addition, we can have a mismatch in the index of floating rate debt versus floating rate assets. During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, certain FFELP loans were earning Floor Income and we locked in a portion of that Floor Income through the use of interest rate swaps and Floor Income Contracts. The result of these hedging transactions was to convert a portion of the fixed rate nature of student loans to variable rate, and to fix the relative spread between the student loan asset rate and the variable rate liability. 117 In the preceding tables, under the scenario where interest rates increase 100 and 300 basis points, the change in pre tax net income before the unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities is primarily due to the impact of (i) our unhedged on balance sheet loans being in a fixed rate mode due to the Embedded Floor Income, while being funded with variable debt in low interest rate environments; and (ii) a portion of our variable assets being funded with fixed debt. Item (i) will generally cause income to decrease when interest rates increase from a low interest rate environment, whereas item (ii) will generally offset this decrease. In the 100 and 300 basis point scenarios for the year ended December 31, 2009, the decrease in income resulted from item (i) above due to the impact of the low interest rate environment on Floor Income. This was offset by item (ii) above, which had a greater impact in the 300 basis point scenario. In the year ended December 31, 2008, item (i) above was partially offset by item (ii), resulting in a decrease to pretax income in the 100 basis point scenario. In the 300 basis point scenario, item (ii) more than offset item (i), resulting in an increase to pre tax income. Under the scenario in the tables above labeled Asset and Funding Index Mismatches, the main driver of the decrease in pre tax income before unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities is the result of LIBOR based debt funding commercial paper indexed assets. See LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Interest Rate Risk Management Asset and Liability Funding Gap for a further discussion. Increasing the spread between indices will also impact the unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives and hedging activities as it relates to basis swaps. Basis swaps used to convert LIBOR based debt to indices that we believe are economic hedges of the indices of the assets being funded resulted in an unrealized loss of $(102) million for both years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. Offsetting this unrealized loss are basis swaps that economically hedge our off balance sheet Private Education Loan securitization trusts. Unrealized gains for these basis swaps totaled $208 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, and $197 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The net impact of both of these items was an unrealized gain for all periods presented. In addition to interest rate risk addressed in the preceding tables, the Company is also exposed to risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. Foreign currency exchange risk is primarily the result of foreign currency denominated debt issued by the Company. As it relates to the Companys corporate unsecured and securitization debt programs used to fund the Companys business, the Companys policy is to use cross currency interest rate swaps to swap all foreign currency denominated debt payments (fixed and floating) to U.S. dollar LIBOR using a fixed exchange rate. In the tables above, there would be an immaterial impact on earnings if exchange rates were to decrease or increase, due to the terms of the hedging instrument and hedged items matching. The balance sheet interest bearing liabilities would be affected by a change in exchange rates; however, the change would be materially offset by the cross currency interest rate swaps in other assets or other liabilities. In the current economic environment, volatility in the spread between spot and forward foreign exchange rates has resulted in material mark to market impacts to current period earnings which have not been factored into the above analysis. The earnings impact is noncash, and at maturity of the instruments the cumulative mark to market impact will be zero. 
 
