Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and in Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies. If we make incorrect assumptions or estimates, we may under or overstate reported financial results, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Political and Reputational. The scope and profitability of our lending businesses remain subject to risks arising from legislative and administrative actions. Through the HCERA, the U.S. Congress mandated that all future federal student loans be made through the DSLP, eliminating the FFELP. Further legislative action by Congress could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For instance, during the fourth quarter 2011, the Administration announced a Special Direct Consolidation Loan Initiative that provides a temporary incentive to borrowers who have at least one student loan owned by ED and at least one held by a FFELP lender to consolidate the FFELP lenders loans into the DSLP program by providing a 0.25 percentage point interest rate reduction on the FFELP loans that are eligible for consolidation. We currently do not foresee the initiative having a significant impact on our FFELP Loans segment. However, the initiative is an example of how the Administration and Congress could detrimentally affect future estimated cash flows and profitability from our FFELP Loan portfolios through their actions. Likewise, additional restrictions or requirements imposed on Private Education lending could increase our costs, affect our ability to service and collect loans and materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to continue to grow our businesses related to contracting with state and federal governments is partly reliant on our ability to remain compliant with the laws and regulations applicable to those contracts. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations related to our government contracting businesses, including our contracts with ED. In addition, these government contracts are subject to termination rights, audits and investigations. If we were found in noncompliance with the contract provisions or applicable laws or regulations, or the government exercised its termination or other rights for that or other reasons, our reputation could be negatively affected, and our ability to compete for new contracts could be diminished. If this were to occur, the future prospects, revenues and results of operations of this portion of our business could be negatively affected. 14 Table of Contents Competition. We operate in a competitive environment, and our product offerings are primarily concentrated in loan and savings products for higher education. We compete in the private credit lending business with banks and other consumer lending institutions, many with strong consumer brand name recognition. We compete based on our products, origination capability and customer service. To the extent our competitors compete aggressively or more effectively, we could lose market share to them or subject our existing loans to refinancing risk. In addition, there is a risk that any new education or loan products that we introduce will not be accepted in the marketplace. Our product offerings may not prove to be profitable and may fail to offset the loss of business in the education credit market. We are a leading provider of saving and paying for college products and programs. This concentration gives us a competitive advantage in the marketplace. This concentration also creates risks in our business, particularly in light of our concentration as a private credit lender and servicer for the FFELP and DSLP. If population demographics result in a decrease in college age individuals, if demand for higher education decreases, if the cost of attendance of higher education decreases, if public resistance to higher education costs increases, or if the demand for higher education loans decreases, our private credit lending business could be negatively affected. In addition, the federal government, through the DSLP, poses significant competition to our private credit loan products. If loan limits under the DSLP increase, DSLP loans could be more widely available to students and their families and DSLP loans could increase, resulting in a further decrease in the size of the private credit education loan market and reduced demand for our private credit education loan products. Credit and Counterparty. Unexpected and sharp changes in the overall economic environment may negatively impact the performance of our loan and credit portfolios. Unexpected changes in the overall economic environment, including unemployment, may result in the credit performance of our loan portfolio being materially different from what we expect. Our earnings are critically dependent on the evolving creditworthiness of our student loan customers. We maintain a reserve for credit losses based on expected future charge offs which considers many factors, including levels of past due loans and forbearances and expected economic conditions. However, managements determination of the appropriate reserve level may under or over estimate future losses. If the credit quality of our customer base materially decreases, if a market risk changes significantly, or if our reserves for credit losses are not adequate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. In addition to the credit risk associated with our education loan customers, we are also subject to the creditworthiness of other third parties, including counterparties to our derivative transactions. For example, we have exposure to the financial condition of various lending, investment and derivative counterparties. If any of our counterparties is unable to perform its obligations, we could, depending on the type of counterparty arrangement, experience a loss of liquidity or an economic loss. In addition, we might not be able to cost effectively replace the derivative position depending on the type of derivative and the current economic environment, and thus be exposed to a greater level of interest rate and or foreign currency exchange rate risk which could lead to additional losses. Our counterparty exposure is more fully discussed in Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Counterparty Exposure. If our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. 15 Table of Contents Regulatory and Compliance. Delays and continuing uncertainties surrounding the ultimate scope and implementation of various provisions of the Dodd Frank Act cause us to continue to be unable to fully assess the risks and implications the law could have on our profitability, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows or future business prospects. The Dodd Frank Act contains comprehensive change to banking laws, imposing significant regulation on almost every aspect of the U.S. financial services industry, including increased capital and liquidity requirements, limits on leverage, and enhanced supervisory authority. A year after passage, most of the component parts of the Dodd Frank Act remain subject to intensive rulemaking and public comment causing continuing uncertainty in our ability to predict the ultimate effect the Dodd Frank Act or required examinations of the private education loan market could have on our operations or those of our subsidiaries. Our operational expenses will likely increase to address new or additional compliance requirements that could be imposed on our operations as a result of the implementation of various provisions of the Dodd Frank Act as the risk of penalties and fines on all businesses may increase and our profitability, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows or future business prospects could be affected as a result. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is now authorized to exercise the full authority provided to it by the Dodd Frank Act though much uncertainty remains about how this authority will be implemented or utilized. A number of our businesses will likely be subject to new rules and regulations not yet proposed or finalized and we may face complaints and challenges to our practices from the CFPB or state regulatory counterparts. In July 2011, responsibility for many consumer financial protection functions formerly assigned to the federal banking and other agencies were transferred to the CFPB. The CFPB has broad authority with respect to some of the businesses in which we engage. It has authority to write regulations under federal consumer financial protection laws, and to directly or indirectly enforce those laws and examine financial institutions for compliance. It is authorized to collect fines and provide consumer restitution in the event of violations, engage in consumer financial education, track consumer complaints, request data and promote the availability of financial services to underserved consumers and communities. It has authority to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive practices by issuing regulations that define the same or by using its enforcement authority without first issuing regulations. Under the Dodd Frank Act, the CFPB and ED are required to prepare a report on the Private Education Loan industry by July 2012 that examines, among other things, the private education loan market; underwriting criteria used by lenders; loan terms, conditions and pricing; consumer protections available to borrowers; and fair lending considerations. The Dodd Frank Act also created a Private Education Ombudsman within the CFPB to receive and attempt to informally resolve complaints about Private Education Loans, and the CFPB plans to receive such complaints through its online consumer complaint system. The Dodd Frank Act authorizes state officials to enforce regulations issued by the CFPB and to enforce the Dodd Frank Acts general prohibition against unfair, deceptive or abusive practices, and makes it more difficult than in the past for federal financial regulators to declare state laws that differ from federal standards preempted. To the extent states enact requirements that differ from federal standards or state officials and courts adopt interpretations of federal consumer laws that differ from those adopted by the CFPB, our compliance costs could increase and reduce our ability to offer the same products and services to consumers nationwide and we may be subject to a higher risk of state enforcement actions. 16 Table of Contents The Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) could designate SLM Corporation as a systemically important non bank financial company to be supervised by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the FRB). Designation of SLM Corporation as a so called SIFI would impose significant additional statutorilydefined monitoring and compliance regimes on our business and could significantly increase the levels of risk based capital and highly liquid assets we are required to hold. Required implementation of some or all of the measures currently proposed by the FRB to be applicable to SIFIs would have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. On October 11, 2011, FSOC published a second notice of proposed rulemaking and related interpretive guidance under the Dodd Frank Act regarding the designation of non bank systemically important financial institutions (SIFIs). If designated as a SIFI, a non bank financial company will be supervised by the FRB and be subject to enhanced prudential supervision and regulatory standards to be developed by the FRB. The new proposal sets forth a three stage determination process for designating non bank SIFIs. In Stage 1, FSOC would apply a set of uniform quantitative thresholds to identify the non bank financial companies that will be subject to further evaluation. Based on its financial condition as of December 31, 2011, SLM Corporation would meet the criteria in Stage 1 and would be subject to further evaluation by FSOC in the SIFI determination process. Because Stages 2 and 3 as proposed would involve qualitative judgment by FSOC, we cannot predict whether SLM Corporation will be designated as a SIFI under the rule as currently proposed. For a further discussion of our belief as to the limited risk SLM Corporation poses to the financial stability of the United States, see Item 1 Business Recent Legislation Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. On December 20, 2011 the FRB issued proposed rules to implement the enhanced prudential supervisory and regulatory standards required of bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, as well as SIFIs. As currently proposed, the rules would require, among other things, that SIFIs: Be subject to a minimum Tier 1 common risk based capital ratio of 5 percent and generally be required to comply with bank regulatory capital and leverage requirements, subject to any case by case exceptions as the FRB might approve; Comply with formal regulatory liquidity standards and hold highly liquid assets on hand sufficient to survive a projected 30 day liquidity crisis; Be subject to new liquidity risk management and governance requirements, approval of liquidity risk models, and implementation of liquidity monitoring and compliance regimes; Employ a chief risk officer to report directly to the chief executive officer and a required risk committee of the Board of Directors; Be subject to periodic company and FRB run supervisory stress tests; and Periodically report to the FDIC and FRB on plans for rapid and orderly resolution of company affairs in the event of a material financial distress or failure. We currently maintain significantly more than 5 percent capital against our Private Education Loans and significantly less than 5 percent capital against our FFELP Loans. We are not currently subject to consolidated capital requirements. Unless an exception were made to recognize the unique, federally insured nature of FFELP Loans, if we were designated as a SIFI, our risk based capital requirements would likely increase. While we maintain our own contingency funding plans and conduct our own internal periodic stress tests, we have never been subject to an FRB supervised stress test nor have we developed a plan for orderly resolution of the scope and magnitude currently being demanded of large bank holding companies. Complying with these measures and implementing any or all of these as yet undefined, formalized statutory monitoring and compliance regimes could significantly increase our cost of doing business and the levels of capital and liquidity we are required to hold and, consequently, have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Our businesses are regulated by various state and federal laws and regulations, and our failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in significant costs, sanctions, litigation or the loss of insurance and guarantees on affected FFELP Loans. Our businesses are subject to numerous state and federal laws and regulations and our failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in significant costs, including litigation costs, and or business sanctions. In addition, changes to such laws and regulations could adversely impact our business and results of operations if we are not able to adequately mitigate the impact of such changes. Our private credit lending and debt collection businesses are subject to regulation and oversight by various state and federal agencies, particularly in the area of consumer protection. Some state attorneys general have been active in this area of consumer protection regulation. We are subject, and may be subject in the future, to inquiries and audits from state and federal regulators as well as frequent litigation from private plaintiffs. The Bank is subject to state and FDIC regulation, oversight and regular examination. The FDIC and state regulators have the authority to impose fines, penalties or other limitations on the Banks operations should they conclude that its operations are not compliant with applicable laws and regulations. At the time of this filing, the Bank was the subject of a cease and desist order for weaknesses in its compliance function. While the issues addressed in the order have largely been remediated, the order has not yet been lifted. Our failure to comply with various laws and regulations or with the terms of the cease and desist order or to have issues raised during an examination could result in litigation expenses, fines, business sanctions, and limitations on our ability to fund our Private Education Loans, which are currently funded by deposits raised by the Bank, or restrictions on the operations of the Bank. The imposition of fines, penalties or other limitations on the Banks business could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Loans serviced under the FFELP are subject to the HEA and related regulations. Our servicing operations are designed and monitored to comply with the HEA, related regulations and program guidance; however ED could determine that we are not in compliance for a variety of reasons, including that we misinterpreted ED guidance or incorrectly applied the HEA and its related regulations or policies. Failure to comply could result in fines, the loss of the insurance and related federal guarantees on affected FFELP Loans, expenses required to cure servicing deficiencies, suspension or termination of our right to participate as a servicer, negative publicity and potential legal claims. A summary of the FFELP may be found in Appendix A Federal Family Education Loan Program. The imposition of significant fines, the loss of the insurance and related federal guarantees on a material number of FFELP Loans, the incurrence of additional expenses and or the loss of our ability to participate as a FFELP servicer could individually or in the aggregate have a material, negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties The following table lists the principal facilities owned by us as of December 31, 2011: Location Function Business Segment(s) ApproximateSquare Feet Fishers, IN Loan Servicing and Data Center Consumer Lending; Business Services; FFELP Loans 450,000 Newark, DE Headquarters Consumer Lending; Business Services; FFELP Loans; Other 160,000 Wilkes Barre, PA Loan Servicing Center Consumer Lending; Business Services; FFELP Loans 133,000 Indianapolis, IN Loan Servicing Center Business Services 100,000 Big Flats, NY GRC Collections Center Business Services 60,000 Arcade, NY(1) Pioneer Credit Recovery Collections Center Business Services 46,000 Perry, NY(1) Pioneer Credit Recovery Collections Center Business Services 45,000 (1) In the first quarter of 2003, we entered into a ten year lease with the Wyoming County Industrial Development Authority with a right of reversion to us for the Arcade and Perry, New York facilities. The following table lists the principal facilities leased by us as of December 31, 2011: Location Function Business Segment(s) ApproximateSquare Feet Reston, VA Administrative Offices Consumer Lending; Business Services; FFELP Loans; Other 90,000 Newark, DE Sallie Mae Operations Center Consumer Lending; Business Services; Other 86,000 Niles, IL Collections Center Other 84,000 Newton, MA Upromise Business Services 78,000 Cincinnati, OH GRC Headquarters and Collections Center Business Services 59,000 Muncie, IN Collections Center Consumer Lending; Business Services 54,000 Moorestown, NJ Pioneer Credit Recovery Collections Center Business Services 30,000 White Plains, NY(1) N/A N/A 26,000 Kansas City, MO Upromise and Campus Payment Solutions Business Services 21,000 Whitewater, WI(2) N/A N/A 16,000 Murray, UT Sallie Mae Bank Consumer Lending; Business Services 10,000 (1) Space vacated in December 2009 and lease terminated in February 2012. (2) Space vacated in September 2010; we are actively searching for subtenants or tenants. None of the facilities that we own is encumbered by a mortgage. We believe that our headquarters, loan servicing centers, data center, back up facility and data management and collections centers are generally adequate to meet our long term student loan and business goals. Our headquarters are currently in owned space at 300 Continental Drive, Newark, Delaware, 19713. We relocated our headquarters to Newark, Delaware from Reston, Virginia on March 31, 2011. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Investor Litigation In Re SLM Corporation Securities Litigation. On January 31, 2008, a putative class action lawsuit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York alleging that the Company and certain officers violated federal securities laws by, among other things, issuing a series of materially false and misleading statements with respect to our financial results for year end 2006 and the first quarter of 2007. This case and other actions arising out of the same circumstances and alleged acts have been consolidated and are now identified as In Re SLM Corporation Securities Litigation. The case purports to be brought on behalf of those who acquired our common stock between January 18, 2007 and January 23, 2008. On January 24, 2012, the court certified a class, appointed class counsel and appointed a class representative. On February 10, 2012, the parties entered into a settlement term sheet under which we agreed to pay $35 million, which amount includes all 19 Table of Contents attorneys fees, administration costs, expenses, class member benefits, and costs of any kind associated with the resolution of this matter. We have denied vigorously all claims asserted against us, but agreed to settle to avoid the burden, expense, risk and uncertainty of continued litigation. The entire settlement amount will be paid by our insurers and the settlement is subject to us entering into a formal settlement agreement and Court approval. In Re SLM Corporation ERISA Litigation. A similar case is pending against the Company, certain current and former officers, retirement plan fiduciaries, and the Board of Directors of the Company, formerly in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York and now before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, alleging breaches of fiduciary duties and prohibited transactions in violation of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act arising out of alleged false and misleading public statements regarding our business made during the 401K Class Period and investments in our common stock by plan participants in the 401K Plans. The case was originally filed on May 8, 2008 and the purported class consists of participants in or beneficiaries of the Sallie Mae 401(K) Retirement Savings Plan and Sallie Mae 401(k) Savings Plan (together, the 401K Plans) between January 18, 2007 and the present whose accounts included investments in our common stock (401K Class Period). On September 24, 2010, this case was dismissed; however, the Plaintiffs appealed. The appeal is pending. In addition, the Plaintiffs filed a motion to hold the appeal in abeyance pending the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuits decision in In re: Citigroup ERISA Litigation and Garren v. McGraw Hill Cos., Inc., two cases with related issues of law. On October 11, 2011, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit held, among other things, that the Citigroup defendants decision not to divest the plan of Citigroup stock or impose restrictions on participants investment in that stock was entitled to a presumption of prudence and subject to abuse of discretion standard. The Plaintiffs in both those cases are seeking en banc review. The Plaintiffs/Appellants seek unspecified damages, attorneys fees, costs, and equitable and injunctive relief. Lending and Collection Litigation and Investigations U.S. ex rel. Batiste v. SLM Corporation, et al. On July 15, 2009, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia unsealed the qui tam False Claims Act complaint of relator Sheldon Batiste, a former employee of SLM Financial Corporation, which alleged that we violated the False Claims Act by our systemic failure to service loans and abide by forbearance regulations and our receipt of U.S. subsidies to which it was not entitled through FFELP. On November 4, 2011, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit affirmed the U.S. District Courts previous dismissal of the complaint in the fall of 2010. Mark A. Arthur et al. v. Sallie Mae, Inc. On February 2, 2010, a putative class action suit was filed by a borrower in U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington alleging that we contacted consumers on their cellular telephones via autodialer without their consent in violation of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, 47 U.S.C. 227 et seq. (TCPA). Each violation under the TCPA provides for $500 in statutory damages ($1,500 if a willful violation is shown). Plaintiffs were seeking statutory damages, damages for willful violations, attorneys fees, costs, and injunctive relief. On October 7, 2011, we entered into an amended settlement agreement under which the Company agreed to a settlement fund of $24.15 million. We have denied vigorously all claims asserted against us, but agreed to settle to avoid the burden, expense, risk and uncertainty of continued litigation. On January 10, 2012, the Court denied, without prejudice, the Motion for Preliminary Approval of the amended settlement agreement noting, however, that although the proposed settlement satisfies the Courts requirement of overall fairness, the Court expressed concern regarding the proposed form of notice and other forms to be provided in connection with the settlement. On February 9, 2012, the Plaintiffs filed a Renewed Motion for Preliminary Approval addressing the Courts concerns. Rodriguez v. SLM Corporation et al. On December 17, 2007, plaintiffs filed a complaint against us in the U.S. District Court for the District of Connecticut alleging that we engaged in underwriting practices which, among other things, resulted in certain applicants for student loans being directed into substandard and expensive loans on the basis of race. On June 20, 2011, we agreed to settle the case and denied all allegations of wrongdoing and liability. We entered into the settlement to avoid the burden, expense, risk and uncertainty of 20 Table of Contents continued litigation. On October 17, 2011, the court provided final approval of the settlement. We do not expect the settlement to have a material impact on our financial position or our business. The Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates also are subject to various claims, lawsuits and other actions that arise in the normal course of business. Most of these matters are claims by borrowers disputing the manner in which their loans have been processed or the accuracy of our reports to credit bureaus. In addition, our collections subsidiaries are routinely named in individual plaintiff or class action lawsuits in which the plaintiffs allege that those subsidiaries have violated a federal or state law in the process of collecting their accounts. We believe that these claims, lawsuits and other actions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Finally, from time to time, the Company receives information and document requests from state attorneys general and Congressional committees concerning certain business practices. Our practice has been and continues to be to cooperate with the state attorneys general and Congressional committees and to be responsive to any such requests. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures N/A 21 Table of Contents PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is listed and traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol SLM since December 12, 2011. Previously, our common stock was listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange. As of January 31, 2012, there were 509,322,190 shares of our common stock outstanding and 504 holders of record. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for our common stock for each full quarterly period within the two most recent fiscal years. Common Stock Prices 1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter 2011 High $ 15.60 $ 17.11 $ 17.11 $ 14.53 Low 12.61 14.40 11.60 10.91 2010 High $ 13.32 $ 13.96 $ 12.40 $ 13.14 Low 10.01 9.85 10.05 10.92 We paid quarterly cash dividends on our common stock of $.10 per share for the last three quarters of 2011. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table provides information relating to our purchase of shares of our common stock in the three months ended December 31, 2011. Total Numberof SharesPurchased(1) Average PricePaid perShare Total Number ofShares Purchasedas Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs(2) Maximum Numberof Shares thatMay Yet BePurchased Underthe Plans orPrograms(2) (Common shares in millions) Period: October 1 October 31, 2011 $ November 1 November 30, 2011 .1 13.49 December 1 December 31, 2011 Total fourth quarter .1 $ 13.49 (1) The total number of shares purchased includes: (i) shares purchased under the stock repurchase program discussed below and (ii) shares of our common stock tendered to us to satisfy the exercise price in connection with cashless exercise of stock options, and tax withholding obligations in connection with exercise of stock options and vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units. (2) In April 2011, our board of directors authorized us to purchase up to $300 million of shares of our common stock in open market transactions, and terminated all previous authorizations. As of September 30, 2011, we had fully utilized this authorization and purchased 19.1 million shares of our common stock. 22 Table of Contents Stock Performance The following graph compares the yearly change in our cumulative total shareholder return on our common stock to that of Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index and Standard & Poors Financials Index. The graph assumes a base investment of $100 at December 31, 2006 and reinvestment of dividends through December 31, 2011. Five Year Cumulative Total Shareholder Return Company/Index 12/31/06 12/31/07 12/31/08 12/31/09 12/31/10 12/31/11 SLM Corporation $ 100.0 $ 41.5 $ 18.4 $ 23.2 $ 26.0 $ 28.2 S&P 500 Financials. 100.0 81.9 37.5 43.7 49.0 40.7 S&P Index 100.0 105.5 66.9 84.3 96.8 98.8 Source: Bloomberg Total Return Analysis 23 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data Selected Financial Data 2007 2011 (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) The following table sets forth our selected financial and other operating information prepared in accordance with GAAP. The selected financial data in the table is derived from our consolidated financial statements. The data should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements, related notes, and Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Operating Data: Net interest income $ 3,529 $ 3,479 $ 1,723 $ 1,365 $ 1,588 Net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations, net of tax $ 600 $ 597 $ 544 $ 2 $ (938 ) Discontinued operations, net of tax 33 (67 ) (220 ) (215 ) 42 Net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation $ 633 $ 530 $ 324 $ (213 ) $ (896 ) Basic earnings (loss) per common share attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations $ 1.13 $ 1.08 $ .85 $ (.23 ) $ (2.36 ) Discontinued operations .06 (.14 ) (.47 ) (.46 ) .10 Total $ 1.19 $ .94 $ .38 $ (.69 ) $ (2.26 ) Diluted earnings (loss) per common share attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations $ 1.12 $ 1.08 $ .85 $ (.23 ) $ (2.36 ) Discontinued operations .06 (.14 ) (.47 ) (.46 ) .10 Total $ 1.18 $ .94 $ .38 $ (.69 ) $ (2.26 ) Dividends per common share attributable to SLM Corporation common shareholders $ .30 $ $ $ $ .25 Return on common stockholders equity 14 % 13 % 5 % (9 )% (22 )% Net interest margin 1.85 1.82 1.05 .93 1.26 Return on assets .33 .28 .20 (.14 ) (.71 ) Dividend payout ratio 25 (11 ) Average equity/average assets 2.54 2.47 2.96 3.45 3.51 Balance Sheet Data: Student loans, net $ 174,420 $ 184,305 $ 143,807 $ 144,802 $ 124,153 Total assets 193,345 205,307 169,985 168,768 155,565 Total borrowings 183,966 197,159 161,443 160,158 147,046 Total SLM Corporation stockholders equity 5,243 5,012 5,279 4,999 5,224 Book value per common share 9.20 8.44 8.05 7.03 7.84 Other Data: Off balance sheet securitized student loans, net $ $ $ 32,638 $ 35,591 $ 39,423 24 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. This discussion and analysis also contains forward looking statements and should also be read in conjunction with the disclosures and information contained in Forward Looking and Cautionary Statements and Item 1A Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Through this discussion and analysis, we intend to provide the reader with some narrative context for how our management views our consolidated financial statements, additional context within which to assess our operating results, and information on the quality and variability of our earnings, liquidity and cash flows. Overview Our primary business is to originate, service and collect loans we make to students and or their parents to finance the cost of their education. The core of our marketing strategy is to generate student loan originations by promoting our products on campus through the financial aid office and through direct marketing to students and their families. We also provide servicing, loan default aversion and defaulted loan collection services for loans owned by other institutions, including ED. We also provide processing capabilities to educational institutions, 529 college savings plan program management services and a consumer savings network. In addition we are the largest holder, servicer and collector of loans made under FFELP, a program that was discontinued in 2010. We monitor and assess our ongoing operations and results based on the following four reportable segments: (1) Consumer Lending, (2) Business Services, (3) FFELP Loans and (4) Other. Consumer Lending Segment In this segment, we originate, acquire, finance and service Private Education Loans. The Private Education Loans we make are largely to bridge the gap between the cost of higher education and the amount funded through financial aid, federal loans or borrowers resources. In this segment, we earn net interest income on the Private Education Loan portfolio (after provision for loan losses) as well as servicing fees, primarily late fees. As of December 31, 2011, we had $36.3 billion of Private Education Loans outstanding. In 2011, we originated $2.7 billion of Private Education Loans, up 19 percent from $2.3 billion in the prior year. Business Services Segment In our Business Services segment we provide loan servicing to our FFELP Loans segment, ED and other third parties. We provide servicing, default aversion and contingency collections work on behalf of ED, Guarantors of FFELP Loans, and other institutions. Our Campus Solutions business provides comprehensive transaction processing solutions and associated technology to college financial aid offices and students to streamline the financial aid process. We provide 529 college savings plan account asset servicing and other transaction processing activities. We offer, tuition, renters and student health insurance to college students and higher education institutions. FFELP Loans Segment Our FFELP Loans segment consists of our $138 billion FFELP Loan portfolio and underlying debt and capital funding these loans. Because we no longer originate FFELP Loans the portfolio is in runoff and is expected to amortize over approximately the next 20 years with a weighted average remaining life of 7.6 years. 25 Table of Contents We actively seek to acquire FFELP Loan portfolios to leverage our servicing scale and expertise to generate incremental earnings and cash flow. Of our total FFELP Loan portfolio, 94 percent was funded with non recourse, long term debt; 76 percent of our FFELP Loan portfolio being funded to term by securitization trusts, 15 percent funded through the ED Conduit Program which terminates on January 19, 2014, and 3 percent funded in our multi year ABCP facility. This segment is expected to generate a stable net interest margin and significant amounts of cash as the FFELP portfolio amortizes. Other Our Other segment primarily consists of the financial results related to activities of our holding company, including the repurchase of debt, the corporate liquidity portfolio and all overhead. We also include results from smaller wind down and discontinued operations within this segment. Key Financial Measures Our operating results are primarily driven by net interest income from our student loan portfolios (which includes financing costs), provision for loan losses, the revenues and expenses generated by our service businesses, and gains and losses on loan sales and debt repurchases. We manage and assess the performance of each business segment separately as each is focused on different customers and each derives its revenue from different activities and services. A brief summary of our key financial measures are listed below. Net Interest Income The most significant portion of our earnings is generated by the spread earned between the interest income we receive on assets in our student loan portfolios and the interest expense of funding these loans. We report these earnings as net interest income. Net interest income in our Consumer Lending and FFELP Loans segments are driven by significantly different factors. Consumer Lending Segment Net interest income in this segment is determined by the Private Education Loan asset yields, which are determined by interest rates established by us based upon the credit of the borrower and any co borrower and the level of price competition in the Private Education Loan market less our cost of funds. Our Private Education Loans earn variable rate interest and are funded primarily with variable rate liabilities. The Consumer Lending segments Core Earnings net interest margin was 4.1 percent in 2011 compared with 3.9 percent in 2010. Our cost of funds can be influenced by a number of factors including the quality of the loans in our portfolio, our corporate credit rating, general economic conditions, investor demand for Private Education Loan ABS and corporate unsecured debt and competition in the deposit market. At December 31, 2011, 56 percent of our Private Education Loan portfolio was funded with non recourse, long term debt; 51 percent of our Private Education Loans being funded to term by securitization trusts. FFELP Loans Segment Net interest income will be the primary source of cash flow generated by this segment over the next 20 years as this portfolio runs off. Historically, interest earned on our FFELP Loans was primarily indexed to commercial paper rates and our cost of funds was indexed to three month LIBOR, creating the possibility of significant basis and repricing risk related to these assets. Recent changes to the applicable law will allow us, beginning in the second quarter of 2012, to index interest earned to one month LIBOR rather than commercial paper rates, significantly reducing basis and repricing risk on $130 billion of our FFELP Loans. The FFELP Loans segments Core Earnings net interest margin was 0.98 percent in 2011 compared with 0.93 percent in 2010. The major source of variability in net interest income is expected to be Floor Income. Pursuant to the terms of the FFELP, certain FFELP Loans, in certain situations, continue to earn interest at the stated fixed rate of 26 Table of Contents interest even if underlying debt costs decrease. We refer to this additional spread income as Floor Income. This Floor Income can be volatile as rates on underlying debt move up and down. We generally hedge this risk by selling Floor Income Contracts which lock in the value of the Floor Income over the term of the contract. Additional cash flow should be generated within this segment as many of our secured financing vehicles are over collateralized, creating the potential for additional cash flow to be distributed to us over time as the loans amortize. Provisions for Loan Losses Management estimates and maintains an allowance for loan losses generally at a level sufficient to cover charge offs expected over the next two years, plus additional allowance to cover life of loan expected losses for loans classified as a troubled debt restructuring. The provision is an income statement item that reduces segment revenues. Generally the allowance rises when charge offs are expected to increase and falls when charge offs are expected to decline. Our loss exposure and resulting provision for losses is smaller for FFELP Loans than for Private Education Loans because we bear a maximum of 3 percent loss exposure on our FFELP Loans whereas we bear the full credit exposure on our Private Education Loans. Our provision for losses in our FFELP Loans segment was $86 million in 2011 compared with $98 million in 2010. Losses in our Consumer Lending segment are primarily driven by risk characteristics such as school type, loan status (in school, grace, forbearance, repayment and delinquency), loan seasoning (number of months in active repayment for which a scheduled payment was due), underwriting criteria (e.g., credit scores), existence or absence of a cosigner and the current economic environment. Our provision for loan losses in our Consumer Lending segment was $1.2 billion in 2011 compared with $1.3 billion in 2010. Charge Offs and Delinquencies When we conclude a loan is uncollectable, the unrecoverable portion of the loan is charged against the allowance for loan losses in the applicable lending segment. Information regarding charge offs provides relevant information over time with respect to the actual performance of our loan portfolios as compared against the provisions for loan losses on those portfolios. Management focuses on the overall level of delinquencies as well as the progression of loans from early to late stage delinquency. The FFELP segment charge off rate was 0.08 percent of loans in repayment in 2011 compared with 0.11 percent in 2010. The Consumer Lending segments charge off rate was 3.7 percent of loans in repayment in 2011 compared with 5.0 percent of loans in repayment in 2010. Delinquencies are a very important indicator of the potential future credit performance. Private Education Loan delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment decreased from 10.6 percent at December 31, 2010 to 10.1 percent at December 31, 2011. Servicing and Contingency Revenues We earn servicing revenues from servicing student loans, Campus Solutions, and from account asset servicing related to 529 college savings plans. We earn contingency revenue related to default aversion and contingency collections work we perform primarily on federal loans. The fees we recognize are primarily driven by our success in collecting or rehabilitating defaulted loans, the number of transactions processed and the underlying volume of loans we are servicing on behalf of others. Other Income / (Loss) In managing our loan portfolios and funding sources we periodically engage in sales of loans and the repurchase of our outstanding debt. In each case, depending on market conditions, we may incur gains or losses from these transactions that affect our results from operations. 27 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The operating expenses reported for our Consumer Lending and Business Services segments are those that are directly attributable to the generation of revenues by those segments. The operating expenses for the FFELP Loans segment primarily represent an intercompany servicing charge from the Business Services segment and do not reflect our actual underlying costs incurred to service the loans. We have included corporate overhead expenses and certain information technology costs (together referred to as Overhead) in our Other segment rather than allocate those expenses by segment. These overhead expenses include costs related to executive management, the board of directors, accounting, finance, legal, human resources, stock based compensation expense and certain information technology costs related to infrastructure and operations. Core Earnings We report financial results on a GAAP basis and also present certain Core Earnings performance measures. Our management, equity investors, credit rating agencies and debt capital providers use these Core Earnings measures to monitor our business performance. Core Earnings is the basis in which we prepare our segment disclosures as required by GAAP under ASC 280 Segment Reporting (see Note 16 Segment Reporting). For a full explanation of the contents and limitations of Core Earnings, see Core Earnings Definition and Limitations of this Item 7. 2011 Summary of Results We continue to operate in a challenging macroeconomic environment marked by high unemployment and uncertainty which contributes added uncertainty to Private Education Loan repayment and default patterns. On July 1, 2010, the HCERA eliminated FFELP Loan originations, a major source of our net income. All federal loans to students are now made through the DSLP and as discussed above, we no longer originate FFELP Loans. In addition, on July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd Frank Act that represents a comprehensive change to banking laws, imposing significant new regulation on almost every aspect of the U.S. financial services industry. A discussion of HCERA and the Dodd Frank Act can be found in Item 1 Business and in Item 1A Risk Factors in our 2011 Form 10 K. Despite this environment, we were able to achieve significant accomplishments during 2011 as discussed below. GAAP 2011 net income was $633 million ($1.18 diluted earnings per share), versus net income of $530 million ($.94 diluted earnings per share) in the prior year. The changes in GAAP net income are driven by the same Core Earnings items discussed below as well as changes in mark to market unrealized gains and losses on derivative contracts and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets that are recognized in GAAP but not in core earnings results. In 2011, we had a $623 million increase in unrealized mark to market losses on derivative contracts and $660 million less goodwill and intangible asset impairment compared with 2010. Core Earnings for the year were $977 million ($1.83 diluted earnings per share) compared to $1.03 billion ($1.92 diluted earnings per share) in 2010. Core Earnings were down due to a decrease in gains on loan sales and debt repurchases from the prior year ($574 million or $.69 per diluted share in 2010). Excluding these gains on loan sales and debt repurchases in 2010, Core Earnings were up $521 million year over year due to improvements in net interest income, loan loss provision, expenses and discontinued operations. During 2011, we raised $2 billion of unsecured debt and issued $2.4 billion of FFELP ABS and $2.1 billion of Private Education Loan ABS. We also repurchased $894 million of debt and realized Core Earnings gains of $64 million in 2011, compared with $4.9 billion and $317 million in 2010. 28 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter 2011, we also closed a $3.4 billion Private Education Loan asset backed commercial paper facility that matures in January 2014. This facility was used to finance the call of Private Education Loan asset backed securities at significant discounts to the par value. We also achieved a key management objective of again being able to return capital to our shareholders. During the second and third quarters of 2011, we repurchased 19.1 million common shares on the open market as part of our previously announced $300 million share repurchase program authorization. We have fully utilized this authorization. We declared and paid a $.10 per share dividend during the second, third and fourth quarters of 2011. 2011 Management Objectives In 2011 we set out five major goals to create shareholder value. They were: (1) reduce our operating expenses; (2) prudently grow Consumer Lending segment assets and revenue; (3) increase Business Services segment revenue; (4) maximize cash flows from FFELP Loans; and (5) reinstate dividends and or share repurchases. We believe we achieved each of these objectives in 2011. The following describes our performance relative to each of our 2011 goals. Reduce Operating Expenses The elimination of FFELP by HCERA greatly reduced our revenue generating capabilities. In 2010 we originated $14 billion of loans, 84 percent of them FFELP Loans; in 2011 we originated $2.7 billion of new loans, all of them Private Education Loans. As a result of the decline in our FFELP related revenue, we determined we must effectively match our cost structure to our ongoing business. As such, we set a goal of having a quarterly operating expense of $250 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 (by comparison, our 2010 fourth quarter operating expenses were $308 million). We achieved this goal as our fourth quarter 2011 operating expenses were $243 million. Prudently Grow Consumer Lending Segment Assets and Revenue Successfully growing Private Education Loan lending is the key component of our long term plan to grow shareholder value. We achieved this goal by originating increasing numbers of high quality Private Education Loans, with higher net interest margins and lower charge offs and provision for loan losses. Originations were 19 percent higher in 2011 compared with 2010 with average FICO and cosigner rates higher compared with the prior year. Core Earnings net interest margin increased from 3.9 percent to 4.1 percent. Charge offs decreased to 3.7 percent of loans in repayment from 5.0 percent in 2010. Provision for loan loss decreased to $1.18 billion from $1.3 billion in 2010. Increase Business Services Segment Revenue Our Business Services segment comprises several businesses with customers related to FFELP that will experience revenue declines and several businesses with customers that provide growth opportunities. Our growth businesses are ED servicing, ED collections, other school based asset type servicing and collections, Campus Solutions, Sallie Mae Insurance Services, transaction processing and 529 college savings plan account asset servicing. We achieved this goal as our Business Services segment revenue increased from $1.3 billion in 2010 to $1.4 billion in 2011. Our allocation of new customer loans awarded for servicing under our ED Servicing Contract increased from 22 percent to 26 percent for the current contract year ending August 15, 2012. The increase was driven primarily by our top ranking for default prevention performance results. We are servicing approximately 3.6 million accounts under the ED Servicing Contract as of December 31, 2011. Campus Solutions added 44 new refund disbursement clients in 2011. We also announced a Sallie Mae Bank No Fee Student Checking Account with Debit as an enhanced refund disbursement choice for schools and students. This new option complements existing Campus Solutions refund disbursement choices that include electronic deposit to the bank account of the students choice, debit card or a check. 29 Table of Contents Assets under management in 529 college savings plans total $37.5 billion and grew 9 percent year over year. We recently were selected to continue as the program manager for New Yorks 529 College Savings Program under a seven year contract, which is currently being negotiated. New York has the largest direct 529 plan in the country. We launched Sallie Mae Insurance Services in 2011, offering college students and higher education institutions tuition, renters and student health insurance. We acquired SC Services & Associates, Inc., a provider of collections services to local governments and courts to enhance and complement our other contingency collection businesses. Maximize Cash Flows from FFELP Loans We have a $138 billion portfolio of FFELP Loans that is expected to generate significant amounts of cash flow and earnings in the coming years. We planned to improve our net interest margin, further minimize income volatility and opportunistically purchase additional FFELP Loan portfolios such as the portfolio we purchased at the end of 2010. We achieved this goal in 2011 by acquiring $1.6 billion of FFELP loans and improving our net interest margin from 93 basis points in 2010 to 98 basis points in 2011. Reinstate Dividends and or Share Repurchases We achieved our objective of either paying dividends or repurchasing shares, or both by the second half of 2011. Beginning in June, we began to pay quarterly dividends of $.10 per share on our common stock, the first since 2007. In April 2011, we authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of outstanding common stock in open market transactions and terminated all previous authorizations. During the second and third quarters of 2011, we paid $300 million to repurchase 19.1 million common shares on the open market. 2012 Outlook We expect the operating strength we demonstrated in 2011 to continue in 2012. We plan to increase Core Earnings primarily through improving Private Education Loan portfolio performance and lower operating expenses. Loan originations are also expected to increase in 2012. We expect to remain an active participant in the capital markets in 2012. Our term ABS activity will feature multiple transactions backed by both FFELP collateral, primarily reducing the ED Conduit Facility, as well as Private Education Loan collateral. We will remain an opportunistic issuer in the unsecured debt markets primarily to facilitate asset liability management activities. Recent transactions in all of the above mentioned categories have been met with strong demand and provide term financing which is a key component of our business model. Recognizing the strong financial position we are in, the Board of Directors approved a 25 percent increase in our quarterly dividend and a $500 million share repurchase program in January 2012. Despite this significant return of capital to our shareholders from earnings, we expect to end 2012 with a stronger balance sheet and better capital ratios. Credit losses within our Private Education Loan portfolio are primarily driven by the quality of loans entering repayment, improving underlying portfolio quality, the quality of new originations and the general economic environment. The fourth quarter 2011 repayment cohort, at $1.5 billion, was the smallest in the last five years, and had better FICO scores and higher cosigner rates than in previous years which should result in lower future losses. The underlying portfolio has continued to improve with 62 percent of the loans cosigned, less than 10 percent non traditional and over 72 percent of our customers currently in repayment having made more than 12 payments. In addition, the loans originated in 2011 had an average FICO score of 748 and were 91 percent cosigned; these statistics are our highest ever for a loan origination cohort. As a result, we believe that charge offs and provision for loan losses will continue their downward trend. 30 Table of Contents 2012 Management Objectives In 2012 we have set out five major goals to create shareholder value. They are: (1) prudently grow Consumer Lending segment assets and revenue; (2) sustain Business Services segment revenue; (3) maximize cash flows from FFELP Loans; (4) reduce our operating expenses; and (5) improve our financial strength. Here is how we plan to achieve these objectives: Prudently Grow Consumer Lending Segment Assets and Revenues We will continue to pursue managed growth in our Private Education Loan portfolio in 2012, currently targeting $3.2 billion in new originations for the year compared to $2.7 billion in 2011. We will also be increasing our efforts to improve our return on these assets projecting even lower charge off rates and provision for loan losses, continuing to build on the improvements we have been demonstrating in these measures since 2009. Sustain Business Services Segment Revenue Our Business Services segment generates the vast majority of its revenue from servicing and collecting on our FFELP Loan portfolio and FFELP Loans for others. As a result of the elimination of FFELP in 2010, servicing and collection revenues derived from FFELP related sources are in decline. In 2012 we will work to offset these declines through two primary means pursuing additional growth and expansion of our non FFELP related servicing and collection businesses and seeking to increase the FFELP related loan servicing and collection work we do for third parties. In 2012 we are targeting significant growth in the number of customers we service for ED under our ED servicing and collection contracts, as well as in the total assets under management in our 529 college savings plans. We will explore both complementary and diversified strategies to expand demand for our services in and beyond the student loan market. We will also more aggressively seek to leverage our existing FFELP servicing platforms to be able to provide lower cost FFELP servicing to others while increasing segment revenues from these sources. Maximize Cash Flows from FFELP Loans In 2012 we will continue to focus on opportunistically purchasing additional FFELP Loan portfolios from other lenders. As cash flows from our existing FFELP Loans decline over coming years, it also becomes increasingly important that we actively manage and continue to reduce operating and overhead costs attributable to the maintenance and management of this segment. Continuing to reduce these operating and overhead costs will also increase net income for our Business Services segment. Reduce Operating Expenses We achieved our 2011 management objective of having a quarterly operating expense of $250 million or less in the fourth quarter of 2011. In 2012 we will strive to sustain or improve on this quarterly run rate for the full fiscal year. Improve Our Financial Strength In January 2012 we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.125 per share and a new $500 million common share repurchase program. Of equal note, it is managements objective for 2012 to provide these increased shareholder distributions while at the same time ending 2012 with a balance sheet and capital positions as strong or stronger than those with which we ended in 2011. 31 Table of Contents Results of Operations We present the results of operations first on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. As discussed earlier, we have four business segments, Consumer Lending, Business Services, FFELP Loans and Other. Since these segments operate in distinct business environments, the discussion following the Consolidated Earnings Summary is presented on a segment basis and is shown on a Core Earnings basis. See Item 1 Business Business Segments for further discussion on the components of each segment. 32 Table of Contents GAAP Statements of Income Increase (Decrease) Years Ended December 31, 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2011 2010 2009 $ % $ % Interest income FFELP Loans $ 3,461 $ 3,345 $ 3,094 $ 116 3 % $ 251 8 % Private Education Loans 2,429 2,353 1,582 76 3 771 49 Other loans 21 30 56 (9 ) (30 ) (26 ) (46 ) Cash and investments 19 26 26 (7 ) (27 ) Total interest income 5,930 5,754 4,758 176 3 996 21 Total interest expense 2,401 2,275 3,035 126 6 (760 ) (25 ) Net interest income 3,529 3,479 1,723 50 1 1,756 102 Less: provisions for loan losses 1,295 1,419 1,119 (124 ) (9 ) 300 27 Net interest income after provisions for loan losses 2,234 2,060 604 174 8 1,456 241 Other income (loss): Securitization servicing and Residual Interest revenue 295 (295 ) (100 ) Gains (losses) on loans and investments, net (35 ) 325 284 (360 ) (111 ) 41 14 Losses on derivative and hedging activities, net (959 ) (361 ) (604 ) (598 ) 166 243 (40 ) Servicing revenue 381 405 440 (24 ) (6 ) (35 ) (8 ) Contingency revenue 333 330 294 3 1 36 12 Gains on debt repurchases 38 317 536 (279 ) (88 ) (219 ) (41 ) Other income 68 6 88 62 1,033 (82 ) (93 ) Total other income (loss) (174 ) 1,022 1,333 (1,196 ) (117 ) (311 ) (23 ) Expenses: Operating expenses 1,100 1,208 1,043 (108 ) (9 ) 165 16 Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment and amortization expense 24 699 76 (675 ) (97 ) 623 820 Restructuring expenses 9 85 10 (76 ) (89 ) 75 750 Total expenses 1,133 1,992 1,129 (859 ) (43 ) 863 76 Income from continuing operations, before income tax expense 927 1,090 808 (163 ) (15 ) 282 35 Income tax expense 328 493 264 (165 ) (33 ) 229 87 Net income from continuing operations 599 597 544 2 53 10 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 33 (67 ) (220 ) 100 149 153 (70 ) Net income 632 530 324 102 19 206 64 Less: net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (1 ) (1 ) (100 ) Net income attributable to SLM Corporation 633 530 324 103 19 206 64 Preferred stock dividends 18 72 146 (54 ) (75 ) (74 ) (51 ) Net income attributable to SLM Corporation common stock $ 615 $ 458 $ 178 $ 157 34 % $ 280 157 % Basic earnings (loss) per common share attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations $ 1.13 $ 1.08 $ .85 $ .05 5 % $ .23 27 % Discontinued operations .06 (.14 ) (.47 ) .20 143 .33 (70 ) Total $ 1.19 $ .94 $ .38 $ .25 27 % $ .56 147 % Diluted earnings (loss) per common share attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations $ 1.12 $ 1.08 $ .85 $ .04 4 % $ .23 27 % Discontinued operations .06 (.14 ) (.47 ) .20 143 .33 (70 ) Total $ 1.18 $ .94 $ .38 $ .24 26 % $ .56 147 % Dividends per common share $ .30 $ $ $ .30 100 % $ % 33 Table of Contents Consolidated Earnings Summary GAAP basis Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2010 For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, net income was $633 million, or $1.18 diluted earnings per common share, and $530 million, or $.94 diluted earnings per common share, respectively. The increase in net income for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared with the prior year period was primarily due to $660 million of goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, which were partially non tax deductible, recorded in the year ago period, a $124 million decrease in the provisions for loan losses, a $100 million increase in income from discontinued operations and $108 million of lower operating expenses. These improvements were partially offset by a $598 million increase in net losses on derivative and hedging activities, a $279 million decrease in gains on debt repurchases and a $360 million decrease in net gains on loans and investments. The primary contributors to each component of net income for the current year compared with the year ago period are as follows: Net interest income increased by $50 million primarily from incremental net interest income earned on $25 billion of securitized FFELP loans acquired on December 31, 2010. Provisions for loan losses decreased by $124 million, as the $124 million of additional provision related to the implementation of new accounting guidance for troubled debt restructurings (TDRs) in the third quarter of 2011 (see Consumer Lending Segment Private Education Loans Provision for Loan Losses and Charge offs for further discussion), was more than offset by overall improvements in credit quality and delinquency and charge off trends. Gains on loans and investments, net, declined $360 million as a result of a $321 million gain recognized in the fourth quarter of 2010 from the sale of FFELP Loans to ED as part of the EDs Loan Purchase Commitment Program (the Purchase Program) which ended in 2010. Also, in 2011 we recorded $26 million of impairment on certain aircraft leases which were primarily related to leveraged lease investments with American Airlines, which filed for bankruptcy in the fourth quarter of 2011. 2011 also has a $9 million mark to market loss related to classifying our entire $12 million portfolio of non U.S. dollar denominated student loans as held for sale. Net losses on derivatives and hedging activities increased by $598 million primarily due to interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations, affecting the valuations of our Floor Income Contracts, basis swaps and foreign currency hedges during the period. Valuations of derivative instruments vary based upon many factors including changes in interest rates, credit risk, foreign currency fluctuations and other market factors. As a result, net gains and losses on derivatives and hedging activities may vary significantly in future periods. Servicing revenue decreased by $24 million primarily due to the end of FFELP in 2010, thereby eliminating Guarantor issuance fees we earn on new FFELP Loans. Outstanding FFELP Loans on which we earn additional fees also declined. Gains on debt repurchases decreased $279 million as we repurchased less debt in the current period. Debt repurchase activity will fluctuate based on market fundamentals and our liability management strategy. Other income increased by $62 million primarily as a result of a $25 million gain from the termination and replacement of a credit card affiliation contract and $27 million from an increase in foreign currency translation gains. The foreign currency translation gains relate to a portion of our foreign currency denominated debt that does not receive hedge accounting treatment. These gains were partially offset by losses on derivative and hedging activities, net line item in the consolidated statements of income related to the derivatives used to economically hedge these debt investments. Operating expenses decreased $108 million primarily as a result of our on going cost savings initiative. 34 Table of Contents Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment and amortization expense declined $675 million compared with the prior year primarily due to the $660 million impairment recognized in the third quarter of 2010 in response to the passage of the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (HCERA), which resulted in the elimination of the FFELP and significantly reduced the future earnings for several of our reporting units. Restructuring expenses decreased $76 million primarily as a result of the substantial completion of our plan for restructuring initiated in response to legislation ending FFELP in 2010. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were 35 percent and 45 percent, respectively. The improvement in the effective tax rate was primarily driven by the impact of non tax deductible goodwill impairments recorded in 2010. Net income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $33 million compared with a net loss from discontinued operations of $67 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The change was primarily driven by a $23 million after tax gain realized from the sale of our Purchased Paper Non Mortgage portfolio in the third quarter of 2011 compared to $52 million of after tax impairments recognized in 2010. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2009 For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, net income was $530 million, or $.94 diluted earnings per common share, and $324 million, or $.38 diluted earnings per common share, respectively. The increase in net income for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared with the prior year was primarily due to a $1.5 billion increase in net interest income after provisions for loan losses and a $243 million decrease in net losses on derivative and hedging activities. These improvements were partially offset by a $660 million goodwill and intangible asset impairment charge in 2010, a $165 million increase in operating expenses, a $219 million decrease in gains on debt repurchases and a decrease in securitization servicing and Residual Interest revenue of $295 million. The primary contributors to each of the identified drivers of changes in income from continuing operations before income tax expense for the year over year period are as follows: Net interest income after provisions for loan losses increased by $1.5 billion in the year ended December 31, 2010 from the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in net interest income and provisions for loan losses was partially due to the adoption as of January 1, 2010 of the new consolidation accounting guidance which resulted in the consolidation of $35.0 billion of assets and $34.4 billion of liabilities in certain securitizations trusts. (See Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies for a further discussion of the effect of adopting the new consolidation accounting guidance). The consolidation of these securitization trusts as of January 1, 2010 resulted in $998 million of additional net interest income and $355 million of additional provisions for loan losses for the year ended December 31, 2010. Excluding the effect of the trusts being consolidated as of January 1, 2010, net interest income increased $758 million from the year ended 2009 and provisions for loan losses decreased $55 million from the year ended 2009. The increase in net interest income, excluding the effect of the new consolidation accounting guidance, was primarily the result of an increase in the FFELP Loans net interest margin primarily due to an improvement in our funding costs, a 24 basis point tightening of the CP/LIBOR spread and the effect of not receiving hedge accounting treatment for derivatives used to economically hedge risk affecting net interest income. The decrease in the provisions for loan losses relates to the Private Education Loan loss provision, which decreased as a result of the improving performance of the portfolio. Securitization servicing and Residual Interest revenue was no longer recorded in fiscal year 2010 due to the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance; however, we recognized $295 million in the prior year. 35 Table of Contents Gains on loans and investments, net, increased $41 million from the prior year primarily related to the gains on sales of additional FFELP Loans to ED as part of EDs Loan Purchase Commitment Program (the Purchase Program). These gains will not occur in the future as the Purchase Program ended in 2010. Losses on derivatives and hedging activities, net, declined by $243 million in 2010 compared with 2009, primarily due to interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations, which primarily affected the valuations of our Floor Income Contracts, basis swaps and foreign currency hedges during the period. Valuations of derivative instruments vary based upon many factors including changes in interest rates, credit risk, foreign currency fluctuations and other market factors. As a result, net gains and losses on derivatives and hedging activities may vary significantly in future periods. Servicing revenue decreased by $35 million primarily due to HCERA becoming effective as of July 1, 2010, thereby eliminating our ability to earn additional Guarantor issuance fees on new FFELP Loans, as well as to a decline in outstanding FFELP Loans for which we were earning additional fees. Contingency revenue increased $36 million primarily from increased collections on defaulted FFELP Loans. Gains on debt repurchases decreased $219 million year over year while the principal amount of debt repurchased increased to $4.9 billion, as compared with the $3.4 billion repurchased in fiscal year 2009. Debt repurchase activity will fluctuate based on market fundamentals and our liability management strategy. Other income declined by $82 million primarily due to a $71 million decrease in foreign currency translation gains. The foreign currency translation gains relate to a portion of our foreign currency denominated debt that does not receive hedge accounting treatment. These gains were partially offset by the losses on derivative and hedging activities, net line item on the income statement related to the derivatives used to economically hedge these debt instruments. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring related asset impairments of $19 million in 2010, increased $146 million year over year primarily due to an increase in legal contingency expense, costs related to the ED Servicing Contract, higher collection and servicing costs from a higher number of loans in repayment and in delinquent status, and higher marketing and technology enhancement costs related to Private Education Loans. Goodwill and intangible asset impairment and amortization increased $623 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, primarily due to the $660 million of impairment recognized as a result of the passage of HCERA and its negative effects on the anticipated cash flows for certain of our reporting units and the reduced market values of these units. The amortization of acquired intangibles for continuing operations and for discontinued operations each remained relatively unchanged for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For additional discussion regarding the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets see Note 5 Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets. Restructuring expenses increased $69 million in the year ended December 31, 2010, which is a result of a $75 million increase in restructuring expenses in continuing operations partially offset by a $6 million decrease in restructuring expenses attributable to discontinued operations. The following details our ongoing restructuring efforts: On March 30, 2010, President Obama signed into law H.R. 4872, HCERA, which included the SAFRA Act. Effective July 1, 2010, this legislation eliminated FFELP and requires all new federal loans to be made through the DSLP. The new law did not alter or affect the terms and conditions of existing FFELP Loans. We have and will continue to restructure our operations in response to this change in law which has and will continue to result in a significant reduction of operating costs due to the elimination of positions and facilities associated with the origination of FFELP Loans. Restructuring expenses associated with continuing operations under this restructuring plan were $83 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. We expect to incur an estimated $10 million of additional restructuring expenses. 36 Table of Contents In response to the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007 (CCRAA) and challenges in the capital markets, we also initiated a restructuring plan in the fourth quarter of 2007. Under this ongoing plan, restructuring expenses associated with continuing operations of $2 million and $10 million were recognized in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This restructuring plan was essentially completed in the fourth quarter of 2009. Income tax expense from continuing operations increased $229 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared with the prior year. The effective tax rates for fiscal years 2010 and 2009 were 45 percent and 33 percent, respectively. The change in the effective tax rate was primarily driven by the impact of non deductible goodwill impairments recorded in 2010 and state tax rate changes recorded in both periods. Net loss from discontinued operations in the year ended December 31, 2010 was $67 million compared with a net loss from discontinued operations of $220 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we sold our Purchased Paper Mortgage/Properties business for $280 million which resulted in an after tax loss of $95 million. As a result of this sale, the results of operations of this business were presented in discontinued operations in the fourth quarter of 2009. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we began actively marketing our Purchased Paper Non Mortgage business for sale and began presenting its results in discontinued operations. We recorded an after tax loss of $52 million from discontinued operations in the fourth quarter of 2010, primarily due to adjusting the value of this business to its estimated fair value. We sold our Purchased Paper Non Mortgage business in the third quarter of 2011. Our Purchased Paper businesses are presented in discontinued operations for the current and prior periods. The additional losses for both years that are more than the losses discussed above relate to ongoing impairment recorded as a result of the weakened economys effect on our ability to collect the receivables. Core Earnings Definition and Limitations We prepare financial statements in accordance with GAAP. However, we also evaluate our business segments on a basis that differs from GAAP. We refer to this different basis of presentation as Core Earnings. We provide this Core Earnings basis of presentation on a consolidated basis for each business segment because this is what we internally review when making management decisions regarding our performance and how we allocate resources. We also refer to this information in our presentations with credit rating agencies, lenders and investors. Because our Core Earnings basis of presentation corresponds to our segment financial presentations, we are required by GAAP to provide Core Earnings disclosure in the notes to our consolidated financial statements for our business segments. For additional information, see Note 16 Segment Reporting. Core Earnings are not a substitute for reported results under GAAP. We use Core Earnings to manage each business segment because Core Earnings reflect adjustments to GAAP financial results for three items, discussed below, that create significant volatility mostly due to timing factors generally beyond the control of management. Accordingly, we believe that Core Earnings provide management with a useful basis from which to better evaluate results from ongoing operations against the business plan or against results from prior periods. Consequently, we disclose this information as we believe it provides investors with additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely assessed by management. The three items adjusted for in our Core Earnings presentations are (1) our use of derivatives instruments to hedge our economic risks that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment or do qualify for hedge accounting treatment but result in ineffectiveness (2) the accounting for goodwill and acquired intangible assets and (3) the off balance sheet treatment of certain securitization transactions. 37 Table of Contents While GAAP provides a uniform, comprehensive basis of accounting, for the reasons described above, our Core Earnings basis of presentation does not. Core Earnings are subject to certain general and specific limitations that investors should carefully consider. For example, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting. Our Core Earnings are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Accordingly, our Core Earnings presentation does not represent a comprehensive basis of accounting. Investors, therefore, may not be able to compare our performance with that of other financial services companies based upon Core Earnings. Core Earnings results are only meant to supplement GAAP results by providing additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely used by management, our board of directors, rating agencies, lenders and investors to assess performance. Specific adjustments that management makes to GAAP results to derive our Core Earnings basis of presentation are described in detail in the section entitled Core Earnings Definition and Limitations Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP of this Item 7. The following tables show Core Earnings for each business segment and our business as a whole along with the adjustments made to the income/expense items to reconcile the amounts to our reported GAAP results as required by GAAP and reported in Note 16 Segment Reporting. 38 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2011 (Dollars in millions) ConsumerLending BusinessServices FFELPLoans Other Eliminations(1) Total CoreEarnings Adjustments(2) TotalGAAP Interest income: Student loans $ 2,429 $ $ 2,914 $ $ $ 5,343 $ 547 $ 5,890 Other loans 21 21 21 Cash and investments 9 11 5 5 (11 ) 19 19 Total interest income 2,438 11 2,919 26 (11 ) 5,383 547 5,930 Total interest expense 804 1,472 54 (11 ) 2,319 82 2,401 Net interest income 1,634 11 1,447 (28 ) 3,064 465 3,529 Less: provisions for loan losses 1,179 86 30 1,295 1,295 Net interest income afterprovisions for loan losses 455 11 1,361 (58 ) 1,769 465 2,234 Servicing revenue 64 970 85 1 (739 ) 381 381 Contingency revenue 333 333 333 Gains on debt repurchases 64 64 (26 ) 38 Other income (loss) (9 ) 70 1 (9 ) 53 (979 ) (926 ) Total other income (loss) 55 1,373 86 56 (739 ) 831 (1,005 ) (174 ) Expenses: Direct operating expenses 304 482 760 12 (739 ) 819 819 Overhead expenses 281 281 281 Operating expenses 304 482 760 293 (739 ) 1,100 1,100 Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment and amortization 24 24 Restructuring expenses 3 3 1 2 9 9 Total expenses 307 485 761 295 (739 ) 1,109 24 1,133 Income (loss) from continuing operations, before income tax expense (benefit) 203 899 686 (297 ) 1,491 (564 ) 927 Income tax expense (benefit)(3) 75 330 252 (109 ) 548 (220 ) 328 Net income (loss) from continuing operations 128 569 434 (188 ) 943 (344 ) 599 Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes 33 33 33 Net income (loss) 128 569 434 (155 ) 976 (344 ) 632 Less: loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) Net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation $ 128 $ 570 $ 434 $ (155 ) $ $ 977 $ (344 ) $ 633 (1) The eliminations in servicing revenue and direct operating expense represent the elimination of intercompany servicing revenue where the Business Services segment performs the loan servicing function for the FFELP Loans segment. (2) Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP: Year Ended December 31, 2011 (Dollars in millions) Net ImpactofDerivativeAccounting Net Impact ofGoodwill andAcquiredIntangibles Total Net interest income after provisions for loan losses $ 465 $ $ 465 Total other loss (1,005 ) (1,005 ) Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairmentand amortization 24 24 Total Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP $ (540 ) $ (24 ) (564 ) Income tax benefit (220 ) Net loss $ (344 ) (3) Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segment. 39 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 (Dollars in millions) ConsumerLending BusinessServices FFELPLoans Other Eliminations(1) Total CoreEarnings Adjustments(2) TotalGAAP Interest income: Student loans $ 2,353 $ $ 2,766 $ $ $ 5,119 $ 579 $ 5,698 Other loans 30 30 30 Cash and investments 14 17 9 3 (17 ) 26 26 Total interest income 2,367 17 2,775 33 (17 ) 5,175 579 5,754 Total interest expense 758 1,407 45 (17 ) 2,193 82 2,275 Net interest income (loss) 1,609 17 1,368 (12 ) 2,982 497 3,479 Less: provisions for loan losses 1,298 98 23 1,419 1,419 Net interest income (loss) after provisions for loan losses 311 17 1,270 (35 ) 1,563 497 2,060 Servicing revenue 72 912 68 1 (648 ) 405 405 Contingency revenue 330 330 330 Gains on debt repurchases 317 317 317 Other income (loss) 51 320 13 384 (414 ) (30 ) Total other income 72 1,293 388 331 (648 ) 1,436 (414 ) 1,022 Expenses: Direct operating expenses 350 500 736 12 (648 ) 950 950 Overhead expenses 258 258 258 Operating expenses 350 500 736 270 (648 ) 1,208 1,208 Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment and amortization 699 699 Restructuring expenses 12 7 54 12 85 85 Total expenses 362 507 790 282 (648 ) 1,293 699 1,992 Income from continuing operations, before income tax expense 21 803 868 14 1,706 (616 ) 1,090 Income tax expense(3) 8 288 311 4 611 (118 ) 493 Net income from continuing operations 13 515 557 10 1,095 (498 ) 597 Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes (67 ) (67 ) (67 ) Net income (loss) $ 13 $ 515 $ 557 $ (57 ) $ $ 1,028 $ (498 ) $ 530 (1) The eliminations in servicing revenue and direct operating expense represent the elimination of intercompany servicing revenue where the Business Services segment performs the loan servicing function for the FFELP Loans segment. (2) Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP: Year Ended December 31, 2010 (Dollars in millions) Net ImpactofDerivativeAccounting Net Impact ofGoodwill andAcquiredIntangibles Total Net interest income after provisions for loan losses $ 497 $ $ 497 Total other loss (414 ) (414) Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairmentand amortization 699 699 Total Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP $ 83 $ (699 ) (616) Income tax benefit (118) Net loss $ (498) (3) Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segment. 40 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) ConsumerLending BusinessServices FFELPLoans Other Eliminations(1) Total CoreEarnings Adjustments(2) TotalGAAP Interest income: Student loans $ 2,254 $ $ 3,252 $ $ $ 5,506 $ (830 ) $ 4,676 Other loans 56 56 56 Cash and investments 13 20 26 (10 ) (20 ) 29 (3 ) 26 Total interest income 2,267 20 3,278 46 (20 ) 5,591 (833 ) 4,758 Total interest expense 721 2,238 66 (20 ) 3,005 30 3,035 Net interest income (loss) 1,546 20 1,040 (20 ) 2,586 (863 ) 1,723 Less: provisions for loan losses 1,399 119 46 1,564 (445 ) 1,119 Net interest income (loss) after provisions for loan losses 147 20 921 (66 ) 1,022 (418 ) 604 Servicing revenue 70 954 75 (659 ) 440 440 Contingency revenue 294 294 294 Gains on debt repurchases 536 536 536 Other income 55 292 1 348 (285 ) 63 Total other income 70 1,303 367 537 (659 ) 1,618 (285 ) 1,333 Expenses: Direct operating expenses 265 440 754 6 (659 ) 806 806 Overhead expenses 237 237 237 Operating expenses 265 440 754 243 (659 ) 1,043 1,043 Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment and amortization 76 76 Restructuring expenses 2 2 8 (2 ) 10 10 Total expenses 267 442 762 241 (659 ) 1, 053 76 1,129 Income (loss) from continuing operations, before income tax expense (benefit) (50 ) 881 526 230 1,587 (779 ) 808 Income tax expense (benefit)(3) (18 ) 311 186 81 560 (296 ) 264 Net income (loss) from continuing operations (32 ) 570 340 149 1,027 (483 ) 544 Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes (220 ) (220 ) (220 ) Net income (loss) $ (32 ) $ 570 $ 340 $ (71 ) $ $ 807 $ (483 ) $ 324 (1) The eliminations in servicing revenue and direct operating expense represent the elimination of intercompany servicing revenue where the Business Services segment performs the loan servicing function for the FFELP Loans segment. (2) Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP: Year Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) Net Impact ofDerivativeAccounting Net Impact ofGoodwill andAcquiredIntangibles Net Impact ofSecuritizationAccounting Total Net interest income (loss) $ 78 $ $ (941 ) $ (863 ) Less: provisions for loan losses (445 ) (445 ) Net interest income (loss) after provisions for loan losses 78 (496 ) (418 ) Total other income (loss) (580 ) 295 (285 ) Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment and amortization 76 76 Total Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP $ (502 ) $ (76 ) $ (201 ) (779 ) Income tax benefit (296 ) Net loss $ (483 ) (3) Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segment. 41 Table of Contents Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP The three adjustments required to reconcile from our Core Earnings results to our GAAP results of operations relate to differing treatments for: (1) our use of derivatives instruments to hedge our economic risks that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment or do qualify for hedge accounting treatment but result in ineffectiveness (2) the accounting for goodwill and acquired intangible assets and (3) the off balance sheet treatment of certain securitization transactions. The following table reflects aggregate adjustments associated with these areas. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP: Net impact of derivative accounting $ (540 ) $ 83 $ (502 ) Net impact of goodwill and acquired intangibles (24 ) (699 ) (76 ) Net impact of securitization accounting (201 ) Net income tax effect 220 118 296 Total Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP $ (344 ) $ (498 ) $ (483 ) 1) Derivative Accounting: Core Earnings exclude periodic unrealized gains and losses that are caused primarily by the mark to market valuations on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under GAAP. To a lesser extent, these periodic unrealized gains and losses are also a result of ineffectiveness recognized related to effective hedges. These unrealized gains and losses occur in our Consumer Lending, FFELP Loans and Other business segments. Under GAAP, for our derivatives that are held to maturity, the cumulative net unrealized gain or loss over the life of the contract will equal $0 except for Floor Income Contracts where the cumulative unrealized gain will equal the amount for which we sold the contract. In our Core Earnings presentation, we recognize the economic effect of these hedges, which generally results in any net settlement cash paid or received being recognized ratably as an interest expense or revenue over the hedged items life. The accounting for derivatives requires that changes in the fair value of derivative instruments be recognized currently in earnings, with no fair value adjustment of the hedged item, unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. We believe that our derivatives are effective economic hedges, and as such, are a critical element of our interest rate and foreign currency risk management strategy. However, some of our derivatives, primarily Floor Income Contracts and certain basis swaps, do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and the stand alone derivative must be marked to market in the income statement with no consideration for the corresponding change in fair value of the hedged item. These gains and losses recorded in Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net are primarily caused by interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate volatility and changing credit spreads during the period as well as the volume and term of derivatives not receiving hedge accounting treatment. Our Floor Income Contracts are written options that must meet more stringent requirements than other hedging relationships to achieve hedge effectiveness. Specifically, our Floor Income Contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment because the pay down of principal of the student loans underlying the Floor Income embedded in those student loans does not exactly match the change in the notional amount of our written Floor Income Contracts. Additionally, the term and the interest rate index of the Floor Income Contract is different than that of the student loans. Under derivatives accounting treatment, the upfront payment is deemed a liability and changes in fair value are recorded through income throughout the life of the contract. The change in the value of Floor Income Contracts is primarily caused by changing interest rates that cause the amount of Floor Income earned on the underlying student loans and paid to the counterparties to vary. This is economically offset by the change in value of the student loan portfolio earning Floor Income but that offsetting change in value is not recognized. We believe the Floor Income Contracts are economic hedges because they effectively fix the amount of Floor Income earned over the contract period, thus eliminating the timing and uncertainty that changes 42 Table of Contents in interest rates can have on Floor Income for that period. Therefore, for purposes of Core Earnings, we have removed the unrealized gains and losses related to these contracts and added back the amortization of the net premiums received on the Floor Income Contracts. The amortization of the net premiums received on the Floor Income Contracts for Core Earnings is reflected in student loan interest income. Under GAAP accounting, the premium received on the Floor Income Contracts is recorded as revenue in the gains (losses) on derivatives and hedging activities, net line item by the end of the contracts life. Basis swaps are used to convert floating rate debt from one floating interest rate index to another to better match the interest rate characteristics of the assets financed by that debt. We primarily use basis swaps to hedge our student loan assets that are primarily indexed to a commercial paper, Prime or Treasury bill index. In addition, we use basis swaps to convert debt indexed to the Consumer Price Index to three month LIBOR debt. The accounting for derivatives requires that when using basis swaps, the change in the cash flows of the hedge effectively offset both the change in the cash flows of the asset and the change in the cash flows of the liability. Our basis swaps hedge variable interest rate risk; however, they generally do not meet this effectiveness test because the index of the swap does not exactly match the index of the hedged assets as required for hedge accounting treatment. Additionally, some of our FFELP Loans can earn at either a variable or a fixed interest rate depending on market interest rates and therefore swaps economically hedging these FFELP Loans do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting treatment. As a result, under GAAP, these swaps are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value reflected currently in the income statement. The table below quantifies the adjustments for derivative accounting on our net income. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Core Earnings derivative adjustments: Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net, included in other income(1) $ (959 ) $ (361 ) $ (604 ) Plus: Realized losses on derivative and hedging activities, net(1) 806 815 322 Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net (153 ) 454 (282 ) Amortization of net premiums on Floor Income Contracts in net interest income for Core Earnings (355 ) (317 ) (197 ) Other pre change in derivatives accounting adjustments (32 ) (54 ) (23 ) Total net impact derivative accounting(2) $ (540 ) $ 83 $ (502 ) (1) See Reclassification of Realized Gains (Losses) on Derivative and Hedging Activities below for a detailed breakdown of the components of realized losses on derivative and hedging activities. (2) Negative amounts are subtracted from Core Earnings to arrive at GAAP net income and positive amounts are added to Core Earnings to arrive at GAAP net income. 43 Table of Contents Reclassification of Realized Gains (Losses) on Derivative and Hedging Activities Derivative accounting requires net settlement income/expense on derivatives and realized gains/losses related to derivative dispositions (collectively referred to as realized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities) that do not qualify as hedges to be recorded in a separate income statement line item below net interest income. Under our Core Earnings presentation, these gains and losses are reclassified to the income statement line item of the economically hedged item. For our Core Earnings net interest margin, this would primarily include: (a) reclassifying the net settlement amounts related to our Floor Income Contracts to student loan interest income and (b) reclassifying the net settlement amounts related to certain of our basis swaps to debt interest expense. The table below summarizes the realized losses on derivative and hedging activities and the associated reclassification on a Core Earnings basis. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Reclassification of realized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities: Net settlement expense on Floor Income Contracts reclassified to net interest income $ (902 ) $ (888 ) $ (717 ) Net settlement income (expense) on interest rate swaps reclassified to net interest income 71 69 412 Foreign exchange derivatives gains/(losses) reclassified to other income (15 ) Net realized gains (losses) on terminated derivative contracts reclassified to other income 25 4 (2 ) Total reclassifications of realized (gains) losses on derivative and hedging activities (806 ) (815 ) (322 ) Add: Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net(1) (153 ) 454 (282 ) Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net $ (959 ) $ (361 ) $ (604 ) (1) Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net comprises the following unrealized mark to market gains (losses): Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Floor Income Contracts $ (267 ) $ 156 $ 483 Basis swaps 104 341 (413 ) Foreign currency hedges (32 ) (83 ) (255 ) Other 42 40 (97 ) Total unrealized gains (losses) on derivative andhedging activities, net $(153) $454 $(282) 44 Table of Contents Cumulative Impact of Derivative Accounting under GAAP compared to Core Earnings As of December 31, 2011, derivative accounting has reduced GAAP equity by approximately $1.0 billion as a result of approximately $1.0 billion (after tax) of cumulative net unrealized net losses recognized for GAAP, but not in Core Earnings. The following table rolls forward the cumulative impact to GAAP equity due to these unrealized net losses related to derivative accounting. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Beginning impact of derivative accounting on GAAP equity $ (676 ) $ (737 ) $ (452 ) Net impact of net unrealized gains/(losses) under derivative accounting (301 ) 61 (285 ) Ending impact of derivative accounting on GAAP equity $ (977 ) $ (676 ) $ (737 ) In addition, net Floor premiums received on Floor Income Contracts that have not been amortized into Core Earnings as of the respective year ends are presented in the table below. These net premiums will be recognized in Core Earnings in future periods and are presented below net of tax. As of December 31, 2011, the remaining amortization term of the net floor premiums was approximately 4.5 years. (Dollars in millions) December 31,2011 December 31,2010 December 31,2009 Unamortized net Floor premiums (net of tax) $ (772 ) $ (363 ) $ (421 ) 2) Goodwill and Acquired Intangibles: Our Core Earnings exclude goodwill and intangible impairment and the amortization of acquired intangibles. The following table summarizes the goodwill and acquired intangible adjustments. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Core Earnings goodwill and acquired intangibles adjustments: Goodwill and intangible impairment of acquired intangibles from continuing operations $ $ (660 ) $ (36 ) Goodwill and intangible impairment of acquired intangibles from discontinued operations, net of tax (1 ) Amortization of acquired intangibles from continuing operations (24 ) (39 ) (38 ) Amortization of acquired intangibles from discontinued operations, net of tax (1 ) Total Core Earnings goodwill and acquired intangibles adjustments(1) $ (24 ) $ (699 ) $ (76 ) (1) Negative amounts are subtracted from Core Earnings to arrive at GAAP net income and positive amounts are added to Core Earnings to arrive at GAAP net income. 45 Table of Contents 3) Securitization Accounting: On January 1, 2010, we adopted the new consolidation accounting guidance which consolidated our off balance sheet securitization trusts. As a result, from 2010 forward, there is no longer a difference between our GAAP and Core Earnings presentation for securitization accounting. (See Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies for further detail). Prior to the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, certain securitization transactions in our FFELP Loans and Consumer Lending business segments were accounted for as sales of assets. Under Core Earnings for the FFELP Loans and Consumer Lending business segments, we present all securitization transactions as long term non recourse financings. The upfront gains on sale from securitization transactions, as well as ongoing securitization servicing and Residual Interest revenue (loss) presented in accordance with GAAP, were excluded from Core Earnings and were replaced by interest income, provisions for loan losses, and interest expense as earned or incurred on the securitization loans. The additional net interest margin included in Core Earnings contained any related fees or costs such as Consolidation Loan Rebate Fees, premium and discount amortization as well as any Repayment Borrower Benefit yield adjustments. We also excluded transactions with our off balance sheet trusts from Core Earnings as they were considered intercompany transactions on a Core Earnings basis. While we believe that our Core Earnings presentation presents the economic substance of results from our loan portfolios, when compared to GAAP results, it understates earnings volatility from securitization gains, securitization servicing income and Residual Interest income. The following table summarizes Core Earnings securitization adjustments for the Consumer Lending and FFELP Loans business segments for the year ended December 31, 2009. Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2009 Core Earnings securitization adjustments: Net interest income on securitized loans, before provisions for loan losses and before intercompany transactions $ (942 ) Provisions for loan losses 445 Net interest income on securitized loans, after provisions for loan losses, before intercompany transactions (497 ) Intercompany transactions with off balance sheet trusts 1 Net interest income on securitized loans, after provisions for loan losses (496 ) Securitization servicing and Residual Interest revenue 295 Total Core Earnings securitization adjustments(1) $ (201 ) (1) Negative amounts are subtracted from Core Earnings to arrive at GAAP net income and positive amounts are added to Core Earnings to arrive at GAAP net income. 46 Table of Contents Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis Consumer Lending Segment The following table includes Core Earnings results for our Consumer Lending segment. Years Ended December 31, % Increase (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Core Earnings interest income: Private Education Loans $ 2,429 $ 2,353 $ 2,254 3 % 4 % Cash and investments 9 14 13 (36 ) 8 Total Core Earnings interest income 2,438 2,367 2,267 3 4 Total Core Earnings interest expense 804 758 721 6 5 Net Core Earnings interest income 1,634 1,609 1,546 2 4 Less: provisions for loan losses 1,179 1,298 1,399 (9 ) (7 ) Net Core Earnings interest income after provisions for loan losses 455 311 147 46 112 Servicing revenue 64 72 70 (11 ) 3 Other income (loss) (9 ) (100 ) Total income 55 72 70 (24 ) 3 Direct operating expenses 304 350 265 (13 ) 32 Restructuring expenses 3 12 2 (75 ) 500 Total expenses 307 362 267 (15 ) 36 Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) 203 21 (50 ) 867 142 Income tax expense (benefit) 75 8 (18 ) 838 144 Core Earnings (loss) $ 128 $ 13 $ (32 ) 885 % (141 )% Core Earnings were $128 million in 2011, compared with Core Earnings of $13 million in 2010. This increase was primarily the result of lower provision for loan losses and operating expenses. Highlights compared to 2010 included: Loan originations increased to $2.7 billion, up 19 percent from $2.3 billion. The portfolio, net of loan loss allowance, totaled $36.3 billion at December 31, 2011, compared with $35.7 billion at December 31, 2010. Net interest margin, before loan loss provision, improved to 4.1 percent, up from 3.9 percent. Delinquencies of 90 days or more (as a percentage of loans in repayment) improved to 4.9 percent, compared with 5.3 percent. The annual charge off rate (as a percentage of loans in repayment) improved to 3.7 percent, compared with 5.0 percent. 47 Table of Contents Consumer Lending Net Interest Margin The following table shows the Consumer Lending Core Earnings net interest margin along with reconciliation to the GAAP basis Consumer Lending net interest margin before provision for loan losses. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Core Earnings basis Private Education student loan yield 6.34 % 6.15 % 5.99 % Discount amortization .23 .29 .26 Core Earnings basis Private Education Loan net yield 6.57 6.44 6.25 Core Earnings basis Private Education Loan cost of funds (1.99 ) (1.79 ) (1.78 ) Core Earnings basis Private Education Loan spread 4.58 4.65 4.47 Core Earnings basis other asset spread impact (.49 ) (.80 ) (.62 ) Core Earnings basis Consumer Lending net interest margin(1) 4.09 % 3.85 % 3.85 % Core Earnings basis Consumer Lending net interest margin(1) 4.09 % 3.85 % 3.85 % Adjustment for GAAP accounting treatment (.08 ) .02 (.16 ) GAAP basis Consumer Lending net interest margin(1) 4.01 % 3.87 % 3.69 % (1) The average balances of our Consumer Lending Core Earnings basis interest earning assets for the respective periods are: (Dollars in millions) Private Education Loans $ 36,955 $ 36,534 $ 36,046 Other interest earning assets 3,015 5,204 4,072 Total Consumer Lending Core Earnings basis interest earning assets $ 39,970 $ 41,738 $ 40,118 The increase in the Core Earnings basis Consumer Lending net interest margin for 2011 over the prior year was primarily due to the decline in the average balance of our other asset portfolio. The size of the other asset portfolio, which is primarily securitization trust restricted cash and cash held at the Bank, has decreased significantly. This other asset portfolio earns a negative yield and as a result, when its relative weighting decreases compared to the Private Education Loan portfolio, the overall net interest margin increases. Private Education Loans Provision for Loan Losses and Charge Offs The following table summarizes the total Private Education Loans provisions for loan losses and charge offs on both a GAAP basis and a Core Earnings basis. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011(1) 2010 2009 Private Education Loan provision for loan losses, GAAP $ 1,179 $ 1,298 $ 967 Private Education Loan provision for loan losses, Core Earnings basis $ 1,179 $ 1,298 $ 1,399 Private Education Loan charge offs, GAAP $ 1,072 $ 1,291 $ 876 Private Education Loan charge offs, Core Earnings basis $ 1,072 $ 1,291 $ 1,299 (1) We recorded an additional $124 million of provision for Private Education Loan losses in the third quarter of 2011 in connection with adopting new accounting rules related to troubled debt restructurings (TDRs). For a complete discussion of the effect of these new rules on our provision for Private Education Loan losses, see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Allowance for Loan Losses. 48 Table of Contents In establishing the allowance for Private Education Loan losses as of December 31, 2011, we considered several factors with respect to our Private Education Loan portfolio. In particular, we continue to see improving credit quality and continuing positive delinquency and charge off trends in connection with this portfolio. Improving credit quality is seen in higher FICO scores and cosigner rates, as well as a more seasoned portfolio compared with the previous year. The delinquency rate has declined to 10.1 percent from 10.6 percent and the charge off rate has declined to 3.7 percent from 5.0 percent compared with the previous year. Apart from these overall improvements in credit quality, delinquency and charge off trends, Private Education Loans which defaulted between 2008 and 2011 for which we have previously charged off estimated losses have, to varying degrees, not met our post default recovery expectations to date and may continue not to do so. We have been charging off these periodic shortfalls in expected recoveries against our allowance for Private Education Loan losses and the related receivable for partially charged off Private Education Loans and we will continue to do so. Differences in actual future recoveries on these defaulted loans could affect our receivable for partially charged off Private Education Loans. In the third quarter of 2011, we increased our provision for Private Education Loan losses for the quarter in the amount of $143 million to reflect these uncertainties. Continuing historically high unemployment rates may negatively affect future Private Education Loan default and recovery expectations over our estimated two year loss confirmation period. Consequently, we have also given consideration to these factors in projecting charge offs for this period and establishing our allowance for Private Education Loan losses. We will continue to monitor defaults and recoveries in light of the continuing weak economy and high unemployment rates. For a more detailed discussion of our policy for determining the collectability of Private Education Loan and maintaining our allowance for Private Education Loan losses, see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Allowance for Loan Losses. Servicing Revenue and Other Income Consumer Lending Segment Servicing revenue for our Consumer Lending segment primarily includes late fees and forbearance fees. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, servicing revenue for our Consumer Lending segment totaled $64 million, $72 million and $70 million, respectively. Included in other income for the year ended December 31, 2011 was a $9 million mark to market loss related to classifying our entire $12 million portfolio of non U.S. dollar denominated student loans as held for sale. Operating Expenses Consumer Lending Segment Operating expenses for our Consumer Lending segment include costs incurred to originate Private Education Loans and to service and collect on our Private Education Loan portfolio. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, operating expenses for our Consumer Lending segment totaled $304 million, $350 million and $265 million, respectively. 2011 versus 2010 The decrease in operating expenses in the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with the year ago period was primarily the result of our cost cutting initiatives. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring related asset impairments, were 82 basis points and 96 basis points of average Private Education Loans in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 2010 versus 2009 Operating expenses increased $85 million from 2009, primarily as the result of a non recurring $11 million benefit in 2009 related to reversing a contingency reserve, an increase in collection and servicing costs from a higher number of loans in repayment and delinquency status and higher marketing and technology enhancement costs related to Private Education Loans in 2010. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring related asset impairments, were 96 basis points and 74 basis points, respectively, of average Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. 49 Table of Contents Business Services Segment The following tables include Core Earnings results for our Business Services segment. Years Ended December 31, % Increase (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Net interest income after provision $ 11 $ 17 $ 20 (35 )% (15 )% Servicing revenue: Intercompany loan servicing 739 648 659 14 (2 ) Third party loan servicing 82 77 53 6 45 Guarantor servicing 52 93 152 (44 ) (39 ) Other servicing 97 94 90 3 4 Total servicing revenue 970 912 954 6 (4 ) Contingency revenue 333 330 294 1 12 Other Business Services revenue 70 51 55 37 (7 ) Total other income 1,373 1,293 1,303 6 (1 ) Direct operating expenses 482 500 440 (4 ) 14 Restructuring expenses 3 7 2 (57 ) 250 Total expenses 485 507 442 (4 ) 15 Income from continuing operations, before income tax expense 899 803 881 12 (9 ) Income tax expense 330 288 311 15 (7 ) Core Earnings 569 515 570 10 (10 ) Less: net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (1 ) (100 ) Core Earnings attributable to SLM Corporation $ 570 $ 515 $ 570 11 % (10 )% Core Earnings were $570 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $515 million in the year ago period. The improvement was primarily driven by the acquisition of existing FFELP Loans from other lenders, including $25 billion acquired in the fourth quarter of 2010. Our Business Services segment earns intercompany loan servicing fees from servicing the FFELP Loans in our FFELP Loans segment. The average balance of this portfolio was $141 billion, $128 billion and $135 billion for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in intercompany loan servicing revenue from the year ago periods is primarily the result of the acquisition of an existing $25 billion FFELP Loan portfolio on December 31, 2010 partially offset by amortization of the underlying portfolio and FFELP Loans sold to ED as part of EDs Purchase Program in 2010. We are servicing approximately 3.6 million accounts under the ED Servicing Contract as of December 31, 2011. Third party loan servicing fees in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 included $63 million and $44 million, respectively, of servicing revenue related to the ED Servicing Contract. Our allocation of loans awarded for servicing under the ED contract increased from 22 percent to 26 percent for the contract year ending August 2012. The increase was driven primarily by our top ranking for default prevention performance results. The decrease in Guarantor servicing revenue compared with the year ago periods was primarily due to the elimination of FFELP in 2010, thereby eliminating any new Guarantor issuance fees we could earn. Outstanding FFELP Loans on which we earn additional fees also declined. Other servicing revenue includes account asset servicing revenue and Campus Solutions revenue. Account asset servicing revenue represents fees earned on program management, transfer and servicing agent services and 50 Table of Contents administration services for our various 529 college savings plans. Assets under administration in our 529 college savings plans totaled $37.5 billion as of December 31, 2011, a 9 percent increase from 2010. Campus Solutions revenue is earned from our Campus Solutions business whose services include comprehensive transaction processing solutions and associated technology that we provide to college financial aid offices and students to streamline the financial aid process. The following table presents the outstanding inventory of contingent collections receivables that our Business Services segment will collect on behalf of others. We expect the inventory of contingent collections receivables to decline over time as a result of the elimination of FFELP. December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Contingency: Student loans $ 11,553 $ 10,362 $ 8,762 Other 2,017 1,730 1,262 Total $ 13,570 $ 12,092 $ 10,024 Other Business Services revenue is primarily transaction fees that are earned in conjunction with our rewards program from participating companies based on member purchase activity, either online or in stores, depending on the contractual arrangement with the participating company. Typically, a percentage of the purchase price of the consumer members eligible purchases with participating companies is set aside in an account maintained by us on behalf of our members. In fourth quarter 2011, we terminated our credit card affiliation program with a third party bank and concurrently entered into an affiliation program with a new bank. In terminating the old program we recognized a $25 million gain which primarily represented prior cash advances we received that were previously recorded as deferred revenue. Revenues related to services performed on FFELP Loans accounted for 76 percent, 78 percent and 79 percent of total segment revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011, we launched Sallie Mae Insurance Services, which offers directly to college students and higher education institutions tuition, renters and student health insurance. We also include a Tuition Insurance Benefit with our Smart Option Student Loan. On September 1, 2011, we acquired SC Services & Associates, Inc., a provider of collections services to local governments and courts. This acquisition enhances and complements our other contingency collection businesses. Operating Expenses Business Services Segment For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, operating expenses for the Business Services segment totaled $482 million, $500 million and $440 million, respectively. 2011 versus 2010 Operating expenses for 2011 decreased from 2010, primarily as a result of our cost cutting initiatives. Included in operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011 is approximately $33 million in third party servicing costs associated with our acquisition of $25 billion of existing FFELP Loans at the end of 2010. During third quarter 2011, we began transitioning these loans to our own servicing platform and completed the transfer in October 2011. With the portfolio fully transitioned, the servicing costs associated with these loans will be significantly less in 2012. 51 Table of Contents 2010 versus 2009 Operating expenses increased $60 million from 2009 to 2010 primarily due to higher technology and other expenses related to preparation for higher volumes for the ED Servicing Contract as well as an increase in legal contingency expenses. FFELP Loans Segment The following table includes Core Earnings results for our FFELP Loans segment. Years Ended December 31, % Increase (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Core Earnings interest income: FFELP Loans $ 2,914 $ 2,766 $ 3,252 5 % (15 )% Cash and investments 5 9 26 (44 ) (65 ) Total Core Earnings interest income 2,919 2,775 3,278 5 (15 ) Total Core Earnings interest expense 1,472 1,407 2,238 5 (37 ) Net Core Earnings interest income 1,447 1,368 1,040 6 32 Less: provisions for loan losses 86 98 119 (12 ) (18 ) Net Core Earnings interest income after provisions for loan losses 1,361 1,270 921 7 38 Servicing revenue 85 68 75 25 (9 ) Other income 1 320 292 (100 ) 10 Total other income 86 388 367 (78 ) 6 Direct operating expenses 760 736 754 3 (2 ) Restructuring expenses 1 54 8 (98 ) 575 Total expenses 761 790 762 (4 ) 4 Income from continuing operations, before income tax expense 686 868 526 (21 ) 65 Income tax expense 252 311 186 (19 ) 67 Core Earnings $ 434 $ 557 $ 340 (22 )% 64 % Core Earnings from the FFELP Loans segment were $434 million in fiscal year 2011, compared with $557 million in the year ago period. The prior year had a $321 million gain from the sale of loans. Key financial measures include: Net interest margin of .98 percent in the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with .93 percent in the year ago period. The provision for loan losses of $86 million in the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased from $98 million in the year ago period. 52 Table of Contents FFELP Loans Net Interest Margin The following table shows the FFELP Loans Core Earnings net interest margin along with reconciliation to the GAAP basis FFELP Loans net interest margin. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Core Earnings basis FFELP student loan yield 2.59 % 2.57 % 2.68 % Hedged Floor Income .25 .23 .14 Unhedged Floor Income .12 .02 .22 Consolidation Loan Rebate Fees (.65 ) (.59 ) (.59 ) Repayment Borrower Benefits (.12 ) (.10 ) (.11 ) Premium amortization (.15 ) (.18 ) (.17 ) Core Earnings basis FFELP student loan net yield 2.04 1.95 2.17 Core Earnings basis FFELP student loan cost of funds (.98 ) (.93 ) (1.44 ) Core Earnings basis FFELP student loan spread 1.06 1.02 .73 Core Earnings basis FFELP other asset spread impact (.08 ) (.09 ) (.06 ) Core Earnings basis FFELP Loans net interest margin(1) .98 % .93 % .67 % Core Earnings basis FFELP Loans net interest margin(1) .98 % .93 % .67 % Adjustment for GAAP accounting treatment .34 .33 (.08 ) GAAP basis FFELP Loans net interest margin 1.32 % 1.26 % .59 % (1) The average balances of our FFELP Core Earnings basis interest earning assets for the respective periods are: (Dollars in millions) FFELP Loans $ 143,109 $ 142,043 $ 150,059 Other interest earning assets 5,194 5,562 5,126 Total FFELP Core Earnings basis interest earning assets $ 148,303 $ 147,605 $ 155,185 The increase in the Core Earnings basis FFELP Loans net interest margin of 5 basis points for 2011 compared with 2010 was primarily the result of an increase in Floor Income due to lower interest rates. The Core Earnings basis FFELP Loans net interest margin for 2010 increased by 26 basis points from 2009. This was primarily the result of a significant reduction in the cost of our ABCP Facility, a 24 basis point improvement in the CP/LIBOR Spread and a significantly higher margin on the loans within the EDs Loan Participation Purchase Program (the Participation Program) facility compared with the prior year. As of December 31, 2011, our FFELP Loan portfolio totaled approximately $138.1 billion, comprised of $50.4 billion of FFELP Stafford and $87.7 billion of FFELP Consolidation Loans. The weighted average life of these portfolios is 5.0 years and 9.2 years, respectively, assuming a Constant Prepayment Rate (CPR) of 5 percent and 3 percent, respectively. On December 23, 2011, the President signed the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012 into law. This law includes changes that permit FFELP lenders or beneficial holders to change the index on which the Special Allowance Payments (SAP) are calculated for FFELP Loans first disbursed on or after January 1, 2000. The law allows holders to elect to move the index from the Commercial Paper (CP) Rate to the one month LIBOR rate. Such elections must be made by April 1, 2012. As of December 31, 2011, we had $130 billion of loans where we intend to elect the change. This change will help us to better match lender payments with our financing costs. We currently expect the new formula to be developed and available for use in the second quarter of 2012. 53 Table of Contents During the fourth quarter 2011, the Administration announced a Special Direct Consolidation Loan Initiative. The initiative provides an incentive to borrowers who have at least one student loan owned by the Department of Education and at least one held by a FFELP lender to consolidate the FFELP lenders loans into the Direct Loan program by providing a 0.25 percentage point interest rate reduction on the FFELP loans that are eligible for consolidation. The program is available from January 17, 2012 through June 30, 2012. We currently do not foresee the initiative having a significant impact on our FFELP segment. On December 31, 2010, we closed on our agreement to purchase an interest in $26.1 billion of securitized federal student loans and related assets from the Student Loan Corporation (SLC), a subsidiary of Citibank, N.A. The purchase price was approximately $1.1 billion and included the residual interest in 13 of SLCs 14 FFELP loan securitizations and its interest in SLC Funding Note Issuer. We service these assets and administer the securitization trusts. Because we have determined that we are the primary beneficiary of these trusts we have consolidated these trusts onto our balance sheet. Floor Income The following table analyzes the ability of the FFELP Loans in our portfolio to earn Floor Income after December 31, 2011 and 2010, based on interest rates as of those dates. December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 (Dollars in billions) FixedBorrowerRate VariableBorrowerRate Total FixedBorrowerRate VariableBorrowerRate Total Student loans eligible to earn Floor Income $ 118.3 $ 17.7 $ 136.0 $ 124.5 $ 21.0 $ 145.5 Less: post March 31, 2006 disbursed loans required to rebate Floor Income (62.7 ) (1.2 ) (63.9 ) (66.1 ) (1.3 ) (67.4 ) Less: economically hedged Floor Income Contracts (41.5 ) (41.5 ) (39.2 ) (39.2 ) Student loans eligible to earn Floor Income $ 14.1 $ 16.5 $ 30.6 $ 19.2 $ 19.7 $ 38.9 Student loans earning Floor Income $ 14.1 $ 2.3 $ 16.4 $ 19.2 $ 1.3 $ 20.5 We have sold the above referenced Floor Income contracts to economically hedge the potential Floor Income from specifically identified pools of FFELP Consolidation Loans that are eligible to earn Floor Income. The following table presents a projection of the average balance of FFELP Consolidation Loans for which Fixed Rate Floor Income has been economically hedged through the sale of Floor Income Contracts for the period January 1, 2012 to June 30, 2016. The Floor Income Contracts related to these loans do not qualify as effective hedges under GAAP accounting. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in billions) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Average balance of FFELP Consolidation Loans whose Floor Income is economically hedged $ 38.3 $ 32.6 $ 28.3 $ 27.2 $ 10.4 54 Table of Contents FFELP Loans Provision for Loan Losses and Charge Offs The following table summarizes the total FFELP Loan provision for loan losses and charge offs on both a GAAP basis and a Core Earnings basis. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 FFELP Loan provision for loan losses, GAAP $ 86 $ 98 $ 106 FFELP Loan provision for loan losses, Core Earnings basis $ 86 $ 98 $ 119 FFELP Loan charge offs, GAAP $ 78 $ 87 $ 79 FFELP Loan charge offs, Core Earnings basis $ 78 $ 87 $ 94 Servicing Revenue and Other Income FFELP Loans Segment The following table summarizes the components of Core Earnings other income for our FFELP Loans segment. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Servicing revenue $ 85 $ 68 $ 75 Gains on loans and investments, net 325 284 Other 1 (5 ) 8 Total other income, net $ 86 $ 388 $ 367 Servicing revenue for our FFELP Loans segment primarily consists of borrower late fees. The gains on loans and investments in 2010 and 2009 related primarily to the sale of $20.4 billion and $18.5 billion loans, respectively, of FFELP Loans to ED as part of the ED Purchase Program. Operating Expenses FFELP Loans Segment Operating expenses for our FFELP Loans segment primarily include the contractual rates we pay to service loans in term asset backed securitization trusts or a similar rate if a loan is not in a term financing facility (which is presented as an intercompany charge from the Business Services segment who services the loans), the fees we pay for third party loan servicing and costs incurred to acquire loans. The intercompany revenue charged from the Business Services segment and included in those amounts was $739 million, $648 million and $659 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These amounts exceed the actual cost of servicing the loans. 2011 versus 2010 The increase in operating expenses from the prior year was primarily the result of the increase in servicing costs related to the $25 billion loan portfolio acquisition on December 31, 2010. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring related asset impairments, were 53 basis points and 51 basis points of average FFELP Loans in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 2010 versus 2009 Operating expenses decreased $18 million from the prior year, primarily due to the effect of our cost cutting initiative in connection with the passage of HCERA. This was partially offset by a one time fee paid to acquire 55 Table of Contents the SLC portfolio, an increase in legal contingency expenses and costs related to closing and selling two loan originations centers in 2010. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring related asset impairments, were 51 basis points and 50 basis points of average Core Earnings basis FFELP Loans in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Other Segment The Other segment primarily consists of the financial results related to the repurchase of debt, the corporate liquidity portfolio and all overhead. We also include results from smaller wind down and discontinued operations within this segment. These are the Purchased Paper businesses and mortgage and other loan businesses. The Other segment includes our remaining businesses that do not pertain directly to the primary segments identified above. Overhead expenses include costs related to executive management, the board of directors, accounting, finance, legal, human resources, stock based compensation expense and certain information technology costs related to infrastructure and operations. The following table includes Core Earnings results for our Other segment. Years EndedDecember 31, % Increase (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Net interest loss after provision $ (58 ) $ (35 ) $ (66 ) 66 % (47 )% Gains on debt repurchases 64 317 536 (80 ) (41 ) Other (8 ) 14 1 (157 ) 1,300 Total income 56 331 537 (83 ) (38 ) Direct operating expenses 13 12 6 8 100 Overhead expenses: Corporate overhead 163 128 138 27 (7 ) Unallocated information technology costs 117 130 99 (10 ) 31 Total overhead expenses 280 258 237 9 9 Total operating expenses 293 270 243 9 11 Restructuring expenses 2 12 (2 ) (83 ) 700 Total expenses 295 282 241 5 17 Income (loss) from continuing operations, before income tax expense (benefit) (297 ) 14 230 (2,221 ) (94 ) Income tax expense (benefit) (109 ) 4 81 (2,825 ) (95 ) Net income (loss) from continuing operations (188 ) 10 149 (1,980 ) (93 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 33 (67 ) (220 ) 149 (70 ) Core Earnings net loss $ (155 ) $ (57 ) $ (71 ) 172 % (20 )% Purchased Paper Business Our Purchased Paper businesses are presented as discontinued operations for the current and prior periods (see Consolidated Earnings Summary GAAP basis for a further discussion). We sold our Purchased Paper Non Mortgage business, resulting in a $23 million after tax gain, in the third quarter of 2011. Gains on Debt Repurchases We began repurchasing our outstanding debt in the second quarter of 2008. We repurchased $894 million, $4.9 billion and $3.4 billion face amount of our senior unsecured notes in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Since the second quarter of 2008, we repurchased $11.1 billion face amount of our senior unsecured notes in the aggregate, with maturity dates ranging from 2008 to 2016. 56 Table of Contents Other Income 2011 had $26 million of impairment recorded related to our investments in leveraged leases. The impairment was primarily related to American Airlines filing for bankruptcy in the fourth quarter of 2011. As a result of their bankruptcy filing we fully impaired our related leveraged lease investments. We also have $13 million in operating leases at December 31, 2011 with American Airlines which we have determined are not impaired. As of December 31, 2011, our total remaining investment in airline leases is $40 million. Overhead Corporate overhead is comprised of costs related to executive management, the board of directors, accounting, finance, legal, human resources and stock based compensation expense. Unallocated information technology costs are related to infrastructure and operations. 2011 versus 2010 The increase in overhead from 2010 to 2011 was primarily the result of a change in the terms of our stock based compensation plans, additional expense related to the termination of our defined benefit pension plan, and restructuring related consulting expenses incurred in the first half of 2011. In the first quarter of 2011, we changed our stock based compensation plans so that retirement eligible employees would not forfeit unvested stock based compensation upon their retirement. This change had the effect of accelerating the future stock based compensation expenses associated with these unvested stock grants into the current period for those retirement eligible employees. We also recognized $16 million of additional expense in 2011 related to the termination of our defined benefit pension plan due to changes in estimates related to the employee termination benefits as well as changes in interest rates. 2010 versus 2009 Operating expenses increased $27 million from 2009 to 2010. This increase in corporate overhead was primarily attributable to increased technology costs associated with disaster recovery modernization, enterprise architecture and information security upgrades. Financial Condition This section provides additional information regarding the changes related to our loan portfolio assets and related liabilities as well as credit performance indicators related to our loan portfolio. Many of these disclosures will show both GAAP basis as well as Core Earnings basis disclosures. Because certain trusts were not consolidated prior to the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, these trusts were treated as off balance sheet for GAAP purposes but we considered them on balance sheet for Core Earnings purposes. Subsequent to the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, this difference no longer exists because all of our trusts are treated as on balance sheet for GAAP purposes. Below and elsewhere in the document, Core Earnings basis disclosures include all historically (pre January 1, 2010) off balance sheet trusts as though they were on balance sheet. We believe that providing Core Earnings basis disclosures is meaningful because when we evaluate the performance and risk characteristics of the Company we have always considered the effect of any off balance sheet trusts as though they were on balance sheet. 57 Table of Contents Average Balance Sheets GAAP The following table reflects the rates earned on interest earning assets and paid on interest bearing liabilities and reflects our net interest margin on a consolidated basis. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance Rate Balance Rate Balance Rate Average Assets FFELP Loans $ 143,109 2.42 % $ 142,043 2.36 % $ 128,538 2.41 % Private Education Loans 36,955 6.57 36,534 6.44 23,154 6.83 Other loans 233 9.16 323 9.20 561 9.98 Cash and investments 10,636 .18 12,729 .20 11,046 .24 Total interest earning assets 190,933 3.11 % 191,629 3.00 % 163,299 2.91 % Non interest earning assets 5,308 5,931 8,693 Total assets $ 196,241 $ 197,560 $ 171,992 Average Liabilities and Equity Short term borrowings $ 31,413 .89 % $ 38,634 .86 % $ 44,485 1.84 % Long term borrowings 156,151 1.36 150,768 1.29 118,699 1.87 Total interest bearing liabilities 187,564 1.28 % 189,402 1.20 % 163,184 1.86 % Non interest bearing liabilities 3,679 3,280 3,719 Equity 4,998 4,878 5,089 Total liabilities and equity $ 196,241 $ 197,560 $ 171,992 Net interest margin 1.85 % 1.82 % 1.05 % Rate/Volume Analysis GAAP The following rate/volume analysis shows the relative contribution of changes in interest rates and asset volumes. Increase(Decrease) Change Due To(1) (Dollars in millions) Rate Volume 2011 vs. 2010 Interest income $ 176 $ 197 $ (21 ) Interest expense 126 149 (23 ) Net interest income $ 50 $ 63 $ (13 ) 2010 vs. 2009 Interest income $ 996 $ 149 $ 847 Interest expense (760 ) (1,194 ) 434 Net interest income $ 1,756 $ 1,416 $ 340 (1) Changes in income and expense due to both rate and volume have been allocated in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each. The changes in income and expense are calculated independently for each line in the table. The totals for the rate and volume columns are not the sum of the individual lines. 58 Table of Contents Summary of our Student Loan Portfolio Ending Student Loan Balances, net December 31, 2011 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELPLoans PrivateEducationLoans Total Total student loan portfolio: In school(1) $ 3,100 $ $ 3,100 $ 2,263 $ 5,363 Grace, repayment and other(2) 46,618 86,925 133,543 35,830 169,373 Total, gross 49,718 86,925 136,643 38,093 174,736 Unamortized premium/(discount) 839 835 1,674 (873 ) 801 Receivable for partially charged off loans 1,241 1,241 Allowance for losses (117 ) (70 ) (187 ) (2,171 ) (2,358 ) Total student loan portfolio $ 50,440 $ 87,690 $ 138,130 $ 36,290 $ 174,420 % of total FFELP 37 % 63 % 100 % % of total 29 % 50 % 79 % 21 % 100 % December 31, 2010 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP PrivateEducationLoans Total Total student loan portfolio: In school(1) $ 6,333 $ $ 6,333 $ 3,752 $ 10,085 Grace, repayment and other(2) 49,068 91,537 140,605 33,780 174,385 Total, gross 55,401 91,537 146,938 37,532 184,470 Unamortized premium/(discount) 971 929 1,900 (894 ) 1,006 Receivable for partially charged off loans 1,040 1,040 Allowance for losses (120 ) (69 ) (189 ) (2,022 ) (2,211 ) Total student loan portfolio $ 56,252 $ 92,397 $ 148,649 $ 35,656 $ 184,305 % of FFELP 38 % 62 % 100 % % of total 31 % 50 % 81 % 19 % 100 % (1) Loans for borrowers still attending school and are not yet required to make payments on the loan. (2) Includes loans in deferment or forbearance. 59 Table of Contents Average Student Loan Balances (net of unamortized premium/discount) Year Ended December 31, 2011 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP PrivateEducationLoans Total Total(1) $ 53,163 $ 89,946 $ 143,109 $ 36,955 $ 180,064 % of FFELP 37 % 63 % 100 % % of total 29 % 50 % 79 % 21 % 100 % Year Ended December 31, 2010 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP PrivateEducationLoans Total Total(1) $ 61,034 $ 81,009 $ 142,043 $ 36,534 $ 178,577 % of FFELP 43 % 57 % 100 % % of total 34 % 46 % 80 % 20 % 100 % Year Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP PrivateEducationLoans Total GAAP basis $ 58,492 $ 70,046 $ 128,538 $ 23,154 $ 151,692 Off balance sheet 6,365 15,156 21,521 12,892 34,413 Total Core Earnings basis $ 64,857 $ 85,202 $ 150,059 $ 36,046 $ 186,105 % of GAAP basis FFELP 46 % 54 % 100 % % of Core Earnings basis FFELP 43 % 57 % 100 % % of total 35 % 46 % 81 % 19 % 100 % (1) Upon the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, we consolidated all of our off balance sheet securitization trusts. 60 Table of Contents Student Loan Activity Year Ended December 31, 2011 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP Total PrivateEducationLoans TotalPortfolio Beginning balance $ 56,252 $ 92,397 $ 148,649 $ 35,656 $ 184,305 Acquisitions and originations 814 802 1,616 2,942 4,558 Capitalized interest and premium/discount amortization 1,506 1,535 3,041 1,269 4,310 Consolidations to third parties (2,741 ) (1,058 ) (3,799 ) (69 ) (3,868 ) Sales (754 ) (754 ) (754 ) Repayments/defaults/other (4,637 ) (5,986 ) (10,623 ) (3,508 ) (14,131 ) Ending balance $ 50,440 $ 87,690 $ 138,130 $ 36,290 $ 174,420 Year Ended December 31, 2010 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP Total PrivateEducationLoans TotalPortfolio Beginning balance GAAP basis $ 52,675 $ 68,379 $ 121,054 $ 22,753 $ 143,807 Consolidation of off balance sheet loans(1) 5,500 14,797 20,297 12,341 32,638 Beginning balance total portfolio 58,175 83,176 141,351 35,094 176,445 Acquisitions and originations 14,349 76 14,425 2,434 16,859 Capitalized interest and premium/discount amortization 1,324 1,357 2,681 1,462 4,143 Consolidations to third parties (2,092 ) (793 ) (2,885 ) (46 ) (2,931 ) Loan acquisition on December 31, 2010 11,237 13,652 24,889 24,889 Sales (21,054 ) (71 ) (21,125 ) (21,125 ) Repayments/defaults/other (5,687 ) (5,000 ) (10,687 ) (3,288 ) (13,975 ) Ending balance $ 56,252 $ 92,397 $ 148,649 $ 35,656 $ 184,305 (1) On January 1, 2010, upon adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance, all off balance sheet loans are included in the GAAP basis. 61 Table of Contents GAAP BasisYear Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP Total PrivateEducationLoans Total On Balance SheetPortfolio Beginning balance $ 52,476 $ 71,744 $ 124,220 $ 20,582 $ 144,802 Consolidations to third parties (1,113 ) (518 ) (1,631 ) (8 ) (1,639 ) Acquisitions and originations(1) 25,677 1,150 26,827 4,343 31,170 Net acquisitions and originations 24,564 632 25,196 4,335 29,531 Securitization related(2) 645 645 645 Sales (19,300 ) (19,300 ) (19,300 ) Repayments/defaults/resales/other (5,710 ) (3,997 ) (9,707 ) (2,164 ) (11,871 ) Ending balance $ 52,675 $ 68,379 $ 121,054 $ 22,753 $ 143,807 Off Balance SheetYear Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP Total PrivateEducationLoans Total Off Balance SheetPortfolio Beginning balance $ 7,143 $ 15,531 $ 22,674 $ 12,917 $ 35,591 Consolidations to third parties (413 ) (138 ) (551 ) (18 ) (569 ) Acquisitions and originations(1) 135 208 343 498 841 Net acquisitions and originations (278 ) 70 (208 ) 480 272 Securitization related(2) (645 ) (645 ) (645 ) Repayments/defaults/resales/other (720 ) (804 ) (1,524 ) (1,056 ) (2,580 ) Ending balance $ 5,500 $ 14,797 $ 20,297 $ 12,341 $ 32,638 Core Earnings Basis PortfolioYear Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP Total PrivateEducationLoans Total CoreEarnings BasisPortfolio Beginning balance $ 59,619 $ 87,275 $ 146,894 $ 33,499 $ 180,393 Consolidations to third parties (1,526 ) (656 ) (2,182 ) (26 ) (2,208 ) Acquisitions and originations(1) 25,812 1,358 27,170 4,841 32,011 Net acquisitions and originations 24,286 702 24,988 4,815 29,803 Securitization related(2) Sales (19,300 ) (19,300 ) (19,300 ) Repayments/defaults/resales/other (6,430 ) (4,801 ) (11,231 ) (3,220 ) (14,451 ) Ending balance $ 58,175 $ 83,176 $ 141,351 $ 35,094 $ 176,445 (1) Includes accrued interest receivable capitalized to principal during the period. (2) Represents loans within securitization trusts that we are required to consolidate under GAAP once the trusts loan balances are below the clean up call threshold. 62 Table of Contents Private Education Loan Originations Total Private Education Loan originations increased 19 percent from 2010 to $2.7 billion in the year ended December 31, 2011. The following table summarizes our Private Education Loan originations. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Total Private Education Loan originations $ 2,737 $ 2,307 $ 3,176 Consumer Lending Portfolio Performance Private Education Loan Delinquencies and Forbearance The tables below present our Private Education Loan delinquency trends. GAAP BasisPrivate Education Loan Delinquencies December 31,2011 December 31,2010 December 31,2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 6,522 $ 8,340 $ 8,910 Loans in forbearance(2) 1,386 1,340 967 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 27,122 89.9 % 24,888 89.4 % 12,421 86.4 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 1,076 3.6 1,011 3.6 647 4.5 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 520 1.6 471 1.7 340 2.4 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 1,467 4.9 1,482 5.3 971 6.7 Total Private Education Loans in repayment 30,185 100 % 27,852 100 % 14,379 100 % Total Private Education Loans, gross 38,093 37,532 24,256 Private Education Loan unamortized discount (873 ) (894 ) (559 ) Total Private Education Loans 37,220 36,638 23,697 Private Education Loan receivable for partially charged off loans 1,241 1,040 499 Private Education Loan allowance for losses (2,171 ) (2,022 ) (1,443 ) Private Education Loans, net $ 36,290 $ 35,656 $ 22,753 Percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 79.2 % 74.2 % 59.3 % Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 10.1 % 10.6 % 13.6 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 4.4 % 4.6 % 6.3 % Loans in repayment greater than 12 months as a percentage of loans in repayment(4) 72.4 % 64.3 % 55.4 % (1) Deferment includes borrowers who have returned to school or are engaged in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation. (2) Loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period generally during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors, consistent with established loan program servicing policies and procedures. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. (4) Based on number of months in an active repayment status for which a scheduled monthly payment was due. 63 Table of Contents Off Balance SheetPrivate Education LoanDelinquencies(5) December 31,2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 2,546 Loans in forbearance(2) 453 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 8,987 90.0 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 332 3.3 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 151 1.5 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 517 5.2 Total Private Education Loans in repayment 9,987 100 % Total Private Education Loans, gross 12,986 Private Education Loan unamortized discount (349 ) Total Private Education Loans 12,637 Private Education Loan receivable for partially charged off loans 229 Private Education Loan allowance for losses (524 ) Private Education Loans, net $ 12,342 Percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 76.9 % Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 10.0 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 4.3 % Loans in repayment greater than 12 months as a percentage of loans in repayment(4) 56.3 % (1) Deferment includes borrowers who have returned to school or are engaged in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation. (2) Loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period generally during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors, consistent with established loan program servicing policies and procedures. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. (4) Based on number of months in an active repayment status for which a scheduled monthly payment was due. (5) On January 1, 2010, upon adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance, all off balance sheet loans are included in GAAP basis. 64 Table of Contents Core Earnings BasisPrivate Education Loan Delinquencies December 31,2011 December 31,2010 December 31,2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 6,522 $ 8,340 $ 11,456 Loans in forbearance(2) 1,386 1,340 1,420 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 27,122 89.9 % 24,888 89.4 % 21,408 87.9 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 1,076 3.6 1,011 3.6 979 4.0 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 520 1.6 471 1.7 491 2.0 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 1,467 4.9 1,482 5.3 1,488 6.1 Total Private Education Loans in repayment 30,185 100 % 27,852 100 % 24,366 100 % Total Private Education Loans, gross 38,093 37,532 37,242 Private Education Loan unamortized discount (873 ) (894 ) (908 ) Total Private Education Loans 37,220 36,638 36,334 Private Education Loan receivable for partially charged off loans 1,241 1,040 728 Private Education Loan allowance for losses (2,171 ) (2,022 ) (1,967 ) Private Education Loans, net $ 36,290 $ 35,656 $ 35,095 Percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 79.2 % 74.2 % 65.4 % Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 10.1 % 10.6 % 12.1 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 4.4 % 4.6 % 5.5 % Loans in repayment greater than 12 months as a percentage of loans in repayment(4) 72.4 % 64.3 % 55.8 % (1) Deferment includes borrowers who have returned to school or are engaged in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation. (2) Loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period generally during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors, consistent with established loan program servicing policies and procedures. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. (4) Based on number of months in an active repayment status for which a scheduled monthly payment was due. 65 Table of Contents Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses The following table summarizes changes in the allowance for Private Education Loan losses. Activity in Allowance for Private Education Loans GAAP BasisYears Ended December 31, Off Balance SheetYears Ended December 31, Core Earnings BasisYears Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011(1) 2010 2009 2011 2010(2) 2009 2011(1) 2010 2009 Allowance at beginning of period $ 2,022 $ 1,443 $ 1,308 $ $ 524 $ 505 $ 2,022 $ 1,967 $ 1,813 Provision for Private Education Loan losses(1) 1,179 1,298 967 432 1,179 1,298 1,399 Charge offs (1,072 ) (1,291 ) (876 ) (423 ) (1,072 ) (1,291 ) (1,299 ) Reclassification of interest reserve(3) 42 48 44 10 42 48 54 Consolidation of securitization trusts(2) 524 (524 ) Allowance at end of period $ 2,171 $ 2,022 $ 1,443 $ $ $ 524 $ 2,171 $ 2,022 $ 1,967 Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment 3.7 % 5.0 % 7.2 % % % 4.4 % 3.7 % 5.0 % 6.0 % Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment and forbearance 3.6 % 4.8 % 6.7 % % % 4.2 % 3.6 % 4.8 % 5.6 % Allowance as a percentage of the ending total loan balance(4) 5.5 % 5.2 % 5.8 % % % 4.0 % 5.5 % 5.2 % 5.2 % Allowance as a percentage of ending loans in repayment 7.2 % 7.3 % 10.0 % % % 5.2 % 7.2 % 7.3 % 8.1 % Allowance coverage of charge offs 2.0 1.6 1.6 1.2 2.0 1.6 1.5 Ending total loans(4) $ 39,334 $ 38,572 $ 24,755 $ $ $ 13,215 $ 39,334 $ 38,572 $ 37,970 Average loans in repayment $ 28,790 $ 25,596 $ 12,137 $ $ $ 9,597 $ 28,790 $ 25,596 $ 21,734 Ending loans in repayment $ 30,185 $ 27,852 $ 14,379 $ $ $ 9,987 $ 30,185 $ 27,852 $ 24,366 (1) See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Allowance for Loan Losses for a discussion regarding the impact of adopting new accounting guidance related to TDRs in the third quarter of 2011, which increased provisions for loan losses by $124 million in the third quarter of 2011. (2) On January 1, 2010, upon the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance, all off balance sheet loans are included in the GAAP basis. (3) Represents the additional allowance related to the amount of uncollectible interest reserved within interest income that is transferred in the period to the allowance for loan losses when interest is capitalized to a loans principal balance. (4) Ending total loans represents gross Private Education Loans, plus the receivable for partially charged off loans. 66 Table of Contents The following table provides the detail for our traditional and non traditional Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans. Years Ended December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) Traditional Non Traditional Total Traditional Non Traditional Total Traditional Non Traditional Total Ending total loans(1) $ 35,233 $ 4,101 $ 39,334 $ 34,177 $ 4,395 $ 38,572 $ 33,223 $ 4,747 $ 37,970 Ending loans in repayment 27,467 2,718 30,185 25,043 2,809 27,852 21,453 2,913 24,366 Private Education Loan allowance for losses 1,542 629 2,171 1,231 791 2,022 1,056 911 1,967 Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment 2.8 % 12.3 % 3.7 % 3.6 % 16.8 % 5.0 % 3.6 % 21.4 % 6.0 % Allowance as a percentage of ending total loan balance(1) 4.4 % 15.3 % 5.5 % 3.6 % 18.0 % 5.2 % 3.2 % 19.2 % 5.2 % Allowance as a percentage of ending loans in repayment 5.6 % 23.1 % 7.2 % 4.9 % 28.2 % 7.3 % 4.9 % 31.3 % 8.1 % Allowance coverage of charge offs 2.1 1.9 2.0 1.5 1.7 1.6 1.6 1.5 1.5 Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 8.6 % 26.0 % 10.1 % 8.8 % 27.4 % 10.6 % 9.5 % 31.4 % 12.1 % Delinquencies greater than 90 days as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 4.0 % 13.6 % 4.9 % 4.2 % 15.0 % 5.3 % 4.6 % 17.5 % 6.1 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 4.2 % 6.6 % 4.4 % 4.4 % 6.1 % 4.6 % 5.3 % 7.1 % 5.5 % Loans that entered repayment during the period(2) $ 1,514 $ 110 $ 1,624 $ 2,510 $ 187 $ 2,697 $ 2,966 $ 261 $ 3,227 Percentage of Private Education Loans with a cosigner 65 % 29 % 62 % 63 % 28 % 59 % 61 % 28 % 57 % Average FICO at origination 726 624 717 725 623 715 725 623 713 (1) Ending total loans represents gross Private Education Loans, plus the receivable for partially charged off loans. (2) Includes loans that are required to make a payment for the first time. As part of concluding on the adequacy of the allowance for loan loss, we review key allowance and loan metrics. The most significant of these metrics considered are the allowance coverage of charge offs ratio; the allowance as a percentage of total loans and of loans in repayment; and delinquency and forbearance percentages. 67 Table of Contents Receivable for Partially Charged Off Private Education Loans At the end of each month, for loans that are 212 days past due, we charge off the estimated loss of a defaulted loan balance. Actual recoveries are applied against the remaining loan balance that was not charged off. We refer to this remaining loan balance as the receivable for partially charged off loans. If actual periodic recoveries are less than expected, the difference is immediately charged off through the allowance for loan losses with an offsetting reduction in the receivable for partially charged off Private Education Loans. If actual periodic recoveries are greater than expected, they will be reflected as a recovery through the allowance for Private Education Loan losses once the cumulative recovery amount exceeds the cumulative amount originally expected to be recovered. There was $143 million in provision for Private Education Loan losses recorded in 2011 to reflect possible additional future charge offs related to the receivable for partially charged off Private Education Loans (see Consumer Lending Segment Private Education Loans Provision for Loan Losses and Charge Offs for a further discussion). The following table summarizes the activity in the receivable for partially charged off loans. Activity in Receivable for Partially Charged Off Loans GAAP Basis Off Balance Sheet Core Earnings Basis Years EndedDecember 31, Years EndedDecember 31, Years EndedDecember 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010(4) 2009 2011 2010 2009 Receivable at beginning of period $ 1,040 $ 499 $ 222 $ $ 229 $ 92 $ 1,040 $ 728 $ 314 Expected future recoveries of current period defaults(1) 391 459 324 156 391 459 480 Recoveries(2) (155 ) (104 ) (43 ) (17 ) (155 ) (104 ) (60 ) Charge offs(3) (35 ) (43 ) (4 ) (2 ) (35 ) (43 ) (6 ) Consolidation of securitization trusts(4) 229 (229 ) Receivable at end of period $ 1,241 $ 1,040 $ 499 $ $ $ 229 $ 1,241 $ 1,040 $ 728 (1) Remaining loan balance expected to be collected from contractual loan balances partially charged off during the period. This is the difference between the defaulted loan balance and the amount of the defaulted loan balance that was charged off. (2) Current period cash collections. (3) Represents the current period recovery shortfall the difference between what was expected to be collected and what was actually collected. (4) Upon the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, we consolidated all of our off balance sheet securitization trusts. Use of Forbearance as a Private Education Loan Collection Tool Forbearance involves granting the borrower a temporary cessation of payments (or temporary acceptance of smaller than scheduled payments) for a specified period of time. Using forbearance extends the original term of the loan. Forbearance does not grant any reduction in the total repayment obligation (principal or interest). While in forbearance status, interest continues to accrue and is capitalized to principal when the loan re enters repayment status. Our forbearance policies include limits on the number of forbearance months granted consecutively and the total number of forbearance months granted over the life of the loan. In some instances, we require good faith payments before granting forbearance. Exceptions to forbearance policies are permitted when such exceptions are judged to increase the likelihood of collection of the loan. Forbearance as a collection tool is used most effectively when applied based on a borrowers unique situation, including historical information and judgments. We leverage updated borrower information and other decision support tools to best determine who will be granted forbearance based on our expectations as to a borrowers ability and willingness to repay their obligation. This strategy is aimed at mitigating the overall risk of the portfolio as well as encouraging cash resolution of delinquent loans. Forbearance may be granted to borrowers who are exiting their grace period to provide additional time to obtain employment and income to support their obligations, or to current borrowers who are faced with a 68 Table of Contents hardship and request forbearance time to provide temporary payment relief. In these circumstances, a borrowers loan is placed into a forbearance status in limited monthly increments and is reflected in the forbearance status at month end during this time. At the end of their granted forbearance period, the borrower will enter repayment status as current and is expected to begin making their scheduled monthly payments on a go forward basis. Forbearance may also be granted to borrowers who are delinquent in their payments. In these circumstances, the forbearance cures the delinquency and the borrower is returned to a current repayment status. In more limited instances, delinquent borrowers will also be granted additional forbearance time. The table below reflects the historical effectiveness of using forbearance. Our experience has shown that three years after being granted forbearance for the first time, 66 percent of the loans are current, paid in full, or receiving an in school grace or deferment, and 20 percent have defaulted. The default experience associated with loans which utilize forbearance is considered in our allowance for loan losses. The monthly average number of loans granted forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance remained steady at 5.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to the year ago quarter. As of December 31, 2011, 2.6 percent of loans in current status were delinquent as of the end of the prior month, but were granted a forbearance that made them current as of December 31, 2011 (borrowers made payments on approximately 22 percent of these loans immediately prior to being granted forbearance). Tracking by First Time in Forbearance Compared to All Loans Entering Repayment Status distribution36 months afterbeing grantedforbearancefor the first time Status distribution36 months afterentering repayment(all loans) Status distribution36 months afterentering repayment forloans never enteringforbearance In school/grace/deferment 9.7 % 9.0 % 5.2 % Current 49.5 58.0 65.8 Delinquent 31 60 days 3.1 2.0 0.4 Delinquent 61 90 days 1.9 1.1 0.2 Delinquent greater than 90 days 4.8 2.7 0.3 Forbearance 4.3 3.3 Defaulted 19.7 10.8 6.0 Paid 7.0 13.1 22.1 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % The tables below show the composition and status of the Core Earnings basis Private Education Loan portfolio aged by number of months in active repayment status (months for which a scheduled monthly payment was due). As indicated in the tables, the percentage of loans in forbearance status decreases the longer the loans have been in active repayment status. At December 31, 2011, loans in forbearance status as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance were 6.9 percent for loans that have been in active repayment status for less than 25 months. The percentage drops to 1.3 percent for loans that have been in active repayment status for more than 48 months. Approximately 80 percent of our Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans in forbearance status has been in active repayment status less than 25 months. 69 Table of Contents (Dollars in millions) Monthly Scheduled Payments Due Not Yet inRepayment December 31, 2011 0 to 12 13 to 24 25 to 36 37 to 48 More than 48 Total Loans in school/grace/deferment $ $ $ $ $ $ 6,522 $ 6,522 Loans in forbearance 920 194 126 66 80 1,386 Loans in repayment current 6,866 6,014 5,110 3,486 5,646 27,122 Loans in repayment delinquent 31 60 days 506 212 158 83 117 1,076 Loans in repayment delinquent 61 90 days 245 100 78 41 56 520 Loans in repayment delinquent greater than 90 days 709 317 205 102 134 1,467 Total $ 9,246 $ 6,837 $ 5,677 $ 3,778 $ 6,033 $ 6,522 38,093 Unamortized discount (873 ) Receivable for partially charged off loans 1,241 Allowance for loan losses (2,171 ) Total Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans, net $ 36,290 Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 10.0 % 2.8 % 2.2 % 1.8 % 1.3 % % 4.4 % (Dollars in millions) Monthly Scheduled Payments Due Not Yet inRepayment December 31, 2010 0 to 12 13 to 24 25 to 36 37 to 48 More than 48 Total Loans in school/grace/deferment $ $ $ $ $ $ 8,340 $ 8,340 Loans in forbearance 980 167 92 47 54 1,340 Loans in repayment current 8,342 5,855 4,037 2,679 3,975 24,888 Loans in repayment delinquent 31 60 days 537 209 117 63 85 1,011 Loans in repayment delinquent 61 90 days 258 92 55 27 39 471 Loans in repayment delinquent greater than 90 days 815 336 156 75 100 1,482 Total $ 10,932 $ 6,659 $ 4,457 $ 2,891 $ 4,253 $ 8,340 37,532 Unamortized discount (894 ) Receivable for partially charged off loans 1,040 Allowance for loan losses (2,022 ) Total Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans, net $ 35,656 Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 9.0 % 2.5 % 2.1 % 1.6 % 1.3 % % 4.6 % (Dollars in millions) Monthly Scheduled Payments Due Not Yet inRepayment December 31, 2009 0 to 12 13 to 24 25 to 36 37 to 48 More than 48 Total Loans in school/grace/deferment $ $ $ $ $ $ 11,456 $ 11,456 Loans in forbearance 1,144 139 69 31 37 1,420 Loans in repayment current 8,817 4,730 3,119 1,878 2,864 21,408 Loans in repayment delinquent 31 60 days 642 159 79 40 59 979 Loans in repayment delinquent 61 90 days 316 81 41 23 30 491 Loans in repayment delinquent greater than 90 days 999 251 110 53 75 1,488 Total $ 11,918 $ 5,360 $ 3,418 $ 2,025 $ 3,065 $ 11,456 37,242 Unamortized discount (908 ) Receivable for partially charged off loans 728 Allowance for loan losses (1,967 ) Total Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans, net $ 35,095 Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 9.6 % 2.6 % 2.0 % 1.6 % 1.2 % % 5.5 % 70 Table of Contents The table below stratifies the portfolio of Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans in forbearance by the cumulative number of months the borrower has used forbearance as of the dates indicated. As detailed in the table below, 4 percent of loans currently in forbearance have cumulative forbearance of more than 24 months. December 31,2011 December 31,2010 December 31,2009 (Dollars in millions) ForbearanceBalance % ofTotal ForbearanceBalance % ofTotal ForbearanceBalance % ofTotal Cumulative number of months borrower has used forbearance Up to 12 months $ 887 64 % $ 958 71 % $ 1,050 74 % 13 to 24 months 446 32 343 26 332 23 More than 24 months 53 4 39 3 38 3 Total $ 1,386 100 % $ 1,340 100 % $ 1,420 100 % Private Education Loan Repayment Options Certain loan programs allow borrowers to select from a variety of repayment options depending on their loan type and their enrollment/loan status, which include the ability to extend their repayment term or change their monthly payment. The chart below provides the optional repayment offerings in addition to the standard level principal and interest payments as of December 31, 2011. Loan Program (Dollars in millions) Signature andOther Smart Option CareerTraining Total $ in Repayment $ 24,212 $ 4,196 $ 1,777 $ 30,185 $ in Total 31,484 4,765 1,844 38,093 Payment method by enrollment status: In school/Grace Deferred (1) Deferred(1), Interest only or fixed $25/month $ Interest only or fixed 25/month Repayment Level principal andinterest or graduated Level principal and interest Level principal andinterest (1) Deferred includes loans for which no payments are required and interest charges are capitalized into the loan balance. The graduated repayment program that is part of Signature and Other Loans includes an interest only payment feature that may be selected at the option of the borrower. Borrowers elect to participate in this program at the time they enter repayment following their grace period. This program is available to borrowers in repayment, after their grace period, who would like a temporary lower payment from the required principal and interest payment amount. Borrowers participating in this program pay monthly interest with no amortization of their principal balance for up to 48 payments after entering repayment (dependent on the loan product type). The maturity date of the loan is not extended when a borrower participates in this program. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, borrowers in repayment owing approximately $7.2 billion (24 percent of loans in repayment) and $7.5 billion (27 percent of loans in repayment), respectively, were enrolled in the interest only program. Of these amounts, 11 percent and 12 percent were non traditional loans as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 71 Table of Contents FFELP Loan Portfolio Performance FFELP Loan Delinquencies and Forbearance The tables below present our FFELP Loan delinquency trends GAAP BasisFFELP Loan Delinquencies December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 22,887 $ 28,214 $ 35,079 Loans in forbearance(2) 19,575 22,028 14,121 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 77,093 81.9 % 80,026 82.8 % 57,528 82.4 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 5,419 5.8 5,500 5.7 4,250 6.1 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 3,438 3.7 3,178 3.3 2,205 3.1 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 8,231 8.6 7,992 8.2 5,844 8.4 Total FFELP Loans in repayment 94,181 100 % 96,696 100 % 69,827 100 % Total FFELP Loans, gross 136,643 146,938 119,027 FFELP Loan unamortized premium 1,674 1,900 2,187 Total FFELP Loans 138,317 148,838 121,214 FFELP Loan allowance for losses (187 ) (189 ) (161 ) FFELP Loans, net $ 138,130 $ 148,649 $ 121,053 Percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 68.9 % 65.8 % 58.7 % Delinquencies as a percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 18.1 % 17.2 % 17.6 % FFELP Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 17.2 % 18.6 % 16.8 % (1) Loans for borrowers who may still be attending school or engaging in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation, as well as loans for borrowers who have requested and qualify for other permitted program deferments such as military, unemployment, or economic hardship. (2) Loans for borrowers who have used their allowable deferment time or do not qualify for deferment, that need additional time to obtain employment or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. 72 Table of Contents Off Balance SheetFFELP LoanDelinquencies(4) December 31,2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 3,312 Loans in forbearance(2) 2,726 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 11,304 82.5 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 804 5.9 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 439 3.2 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 1,160 8.4 Total FFELP Loans in repayment 13,707 100 % Total FFELP Loans, gross 19,745 FFELP Loan unamortized premium 577 Total FFELP Loans 20,322 FFELP Loan allowance for losses (25 ) FFELP Loans, net $ 20,297 Percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 69.4 % Delinquencies as a percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 17.5 % FFELP Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 16.6 % Core Earnings BasisFFELP Loan Delinquencies December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 22,887 $ 28,214 $ 38,391 Loans in forbearance(2) 19,575 22,028 16,847 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 77,093 81.9 % 80,026 82.8 % 68,832 82.4 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 5,419 5.8 5,500 5.7 5,054 6.0 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 3,438 3.7 3,178 3.3 2,644 3.2 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 8,231 8.6 7,992 8.2 7,004 8.4 Total FFELP Loans in repayment 94,181 100 % 96,696 100 % 83,534 100 % Total FFELP Loans, gross 136,643 146,938 138,772 FFELP Loan unamortized premium 1,674 1,900 2,764 Total FFELP Loans 138,317 148,838 141,536 FFELP Loan allowance for losses (187 ) (189 ) (186 ) FFELP Loans, net $ 138,130 $ 148,649 $ 141,350 Percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 68.9 % 65.8 % 60.2 % Delinquencies as a percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 18.1 % 17.2 % 17.6 % FFELP Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 17.2 % 18.6 % 16.8 % (1) Loans for borrowers who may still be attending school or engaging in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation, as well as loans for borrowers who have requested and qualify for other permitted program deferments such as military, unemployment, or economic hardship. (2) Loans for borrowers who have used their allowable deferment time or do not qualify for deferment, that need additional time to obtain employment or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. (4) On January 1, 2010, upon the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance, all off balance sheet loans are included in GAAP basis. 73 Table of Contents Allowance for FFELP Loan Losses The following table summarizes changes in the allowance for FFELP Loan losses. Activity in Allowance for FFELP Loans GAAP BasisYears Ended December 31, Off Balance SheetYears Ended December 31, Core Earnings BasisYears Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010(1) 2009 2011 2010 2009 Allowance at beginning of period $ 189 $ 161 $ 138 $ $ 25 $ 27 $ 189 $ 186 $ 165 Provision for FFELP Loan losses 86 98 106 13 86 98 119 Charge offs (78 ) (87 ) (79 ) (15 ) (78 ) (87 ) (94 ) Student loan sales and securitization activity (10 ) (8 ) (4 ) (10 ) (8 ) (4 ) Consolidation of securitization trusts(1) 25 (25 ) Allowance at end of period $ 187 $ 189 $ 161 $ $ $ 25 $ 187 $ 189 $ 186 Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment .08 % .11 % .11 % % % .10 % .08 % .11 % .11 % Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment and forbearance .07 % .09 % .10 % % % .09 % .07 % .09 % .09 % Allowance as a percentage of the ending total loans, gross .14 % .13 % .14 % % % .13 % .14 % .13 % .13 % Allowance as a percentage of ending loans in repayment .20 % .20 % .23 % % % .18 % .20 % .20 % .22 % Allowance coverage of charge offs 2.4 2.2 2.0 1.7 2.4 2.2 2.0 Ending total loans, gross $ 136,643 $ 146,938 $ 119,027 $ $ $ 19,745 $ 136,643 $ 146,938 $ 138,772 Average loans in repayment $ 94,359 $ 82,255 $ 69,020 $ $ $ 14,293 $ 94,359 $ 82,255 $ 83,313 Ending loans in repayment $ 94,181 $ 96,696 $ 69,827 $ $ $ 13,707 $ 94,181 $ 96,696 $ 83,534 (1) Upon the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, we consolidated all of our off balance sheet securitization trusts. 74 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Funding and Liquidity Risk Management The following Liquidity and Capital Resources discussion concentrates on our Consumer Lending and FFELP Loans segments. Our Business Services and Other segments require minimal capital. We define liquidity risk as the potential inability to meet our contractual and contingent financial obligations as they come due, as well as the potential inability to fund Private Education Loan originations. Our primary liquidity objective is to ensure our ongoing ability to meet our funding needs for our businesses throughout market cycles, including during periods of financial stress. Our two primary liquidity needs are funding the originations of Private Education Loans and retiring unsecured debt upon maturity. To achieve that objective we analyze and monitor our liquidity needs, maintain excess liquidity and access diverse funding sources including the issuance of unsecured debt, the issuance of secured debt primarily through asset backed securitizations and or other financing facilities and through deposits at Sallie Mae Bank (the Bank), our Utah industrial bank subsidiary. We define liquidity as cash and high quality liquid securities that we can use to meet our funding requirements as they arise. Our primary liquidity risk relates to our ability to fund new originations and raise replacement funding at a reasonable cost as our unsecured debt matures. In addition, we must continue to obtain funding at reasonable rates to meet our other business obligations and to continue to grow our business. Key risks associated with our liquidity relate to our ability to access the capital markets and access them at reasonable rates. This ability may be affected by our credit ratings, as well as the overall availability of funding sources in the marketplace. In addition, credit ratings may be important to customers or counterparties when we compete in certain markets and when we seek to engage in certain transactions, including over the counter derivatives. Credit ratings and outlooks are opinions subject to ongoing review by the ratings agencies and may change from time to time based on our financial performance, industry dynamics and other factors. Other factors that influence our credit ratings include the ratings agencies assessment of the general operating environment, our relative positions in the markets in which we compete, reputation, liquidity position, the level and volatility of earnings, corporate governance and risk management policies, capital position and capital management practices. A negative change in our credit rating could have a negative effect on our liquidity because it would raise the cost and availability of funding and potentially require additional cash collateral or restrict cash currently held as collateral on existing borrowings or derivative collateral arrangements. It is our objective to improve our credit ratings so that we can continue to efficiently access the capital markets even in difficult economic and market conditions. Recent market volatility has elevated the potential cost of capital markets issuance. Regardless, we continue to expect to fund our ongoing liquidity needs, including the origination of new Private Education Loans and the repayment of $1.8 billion of senior unsecured notes to mature in 2012, primarily through our current cash and investment position and the collection of additional bank deposits, the very predictable operating cash flows provided by earnings and repayment of principal on unencumbered student loan assets and distributions from our securitization trusts (including servicing fees which are priority payments within the trusts). We may also draw down on FFELP ABCP Facilities and the facility with the Federal Home Loan Bank in Des Moines (the FHLB DM Facility); and we may also issue term ABS and unsecured debt. Currently, new Private Education Loan originations are initially funded through deposits and subsequently securitized to term on a programmatic basis. We have $1.5 billion of cash at the Bank as of December 31, 2011 available to fund future originations. We no longer originate FFELP Loans and therefore no longer have liquidity requirements for new FFELP Loan originations. The acquisition of loan portfolios may require additional funding. Additionally, it is our intent to refinance, primarily through securitizations, the FFELP Loans that are currently in the ED Conduit Program by its January 2014 maturity date. We currently have $21.4 billion of collateral in the ED Conduit Program. While the assets in 75 Table of Contents this facility can be put to ED at the conclusion of the program thus eliminating a call on our liquidity, we intend to refinance these assets in the term ABS market prior to the facilitys expiration. In addition, capacity is maintained in our FFELP ABCP Facility and our FHLB DM Facility to finance a portion of this collateral should term financing not be achieved or available. Sources of Liquidity and Available Capacity The following tables detail our main sources of primary liquidity and our main sources of secondary liquidity (unused secured credit facilities contingent upon obtaining eligible collateral). (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 Sources of primary liquidity: Unrestricted cash and liquid investments: Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,794 $ 4,342 Investments 71 85 Total unrestricted cash and liquid investments(1) $ 2,865 $ 4,427 Unencumbered FFELP Loans $ 994 $ 1,441 Sources of secondary liquidity contingent on obtaining eligible collateral: Unused secured credit facilities: FFELP ABCP Facilities and FHLB DM Facility(2) $ 11,312 $ 12,601 (1) At December 31, 2011 and 2010, ending balances include $1.5 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, of cash and liquid investments at the Bank. This cash will be used primarily to originate or acquire student loans at the Bank. Our ability to pay dividends from the Bank is subject to capital and liquidity requirements applicable to the Bank. (2) Current borrowing capacity under the FFELP ABCP Facilities and FHLB DM Facility is determined based on qualifying collateral from the unencumbered FFELP Loans reported in primary liquidity above. Additional borrowing capacity would primarily be used to fund FFELP Loan portfolio acquisitions and to refinance FFELP Loans used as collateral in the ED Conduit Program Facility. The total amount we can borrow is contingent upon obtaining eligible collateral. If we use our unencumbered FFELP Loans as collateral to borrow against these facilities, the remaining amount we could borrow is reduced accordingly. Average Balances Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Sources of primary liquidity: Unrestricted cash and liquid investments: Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,623 $ 6,078 $ 5,713 Investments 95 94 145 Total unrestricted cash and liquid investments(1) $ 3,718 $ 6,172 $ 5,858 Unused bank lines of credit $ $ 2,069 $ 4,014 Unencumbered FFELP Loans $ 1,399 $ 1,897 $ 3,507 Sources of secondary liquidity contingent on obtaining eligible collateral: Unused secured credit facilities: FFELP ABCP Facilities and FHLB DM Facility(2) $ 11,356 $ 12,947 $ 1,802 (1) For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, average balances include $1.2 billion, $2.3 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, of cash and liquid investments at the Bank. This cash will be used primarily to originate or acquire student loans at the Bank. Our ability to pay dividends from the Bank is subject to capital and liquidity requirements applicable to the Bank. (2) Current borrowing capacity under the FFELP ABCP Facilities and FHLB DM Facility is determined based on qualifying collateral from the unencumbered FFELP Loans reported in primary liquidity above. Additional borrowing capacity would primarily be used to fund FFELP Loan portfolio acquisitions and to refinance FFELP Loans used as collateral in the ED Conduit Program Facility. The total amount we can borrow is contingent upon obtaining eligible collateral. If we use our unencumbered FFELP Loans as collateral to borrow against these facilities, the remaining amount we could borrow is reduced accordingly. 76 Table of Contents In addition to the assets listed in the table above, we hold a number of other unencumbered assets, consisting primarily of Private Education Loans and other assets. At December 31, 2011, we had a total of $20.2 billion of unencumbered assets (which includes the assets that comprise our primary liquidity and are available to serve as collateral for our secondary liquidity), excluding goodwill and acquired intangibles. Total unencumbered student loans, net, comprised $12.0 billion of our unencumbered assets of which $11.0 billion and $1.0 billion related to Private Education Loans, net, and FFELP Loans, net, respectively. For further discussion of our various sources of liquidity, such as the ED Conduit Program, the Sallie Mae Bank, our continued access to the ABS market, our asset backed financing facilities, the lending agreement we entered into with the FHLB DM and our issuance of unsecured debt, see Note 6 Borrowings to our consolidated financial statements. The following table reconciles encumbered and unencumbered assets and their net impact on total tangible equity. (Dollars in billions) December 31,2011 December 31,2010 Net assets of consolidated variable interest entities (encumbered assets) $ 12.9 $ 13.1 Tangible unencumbered assets(1) 20.2 22.3 Unsecured debt (24.1 ) (26.9 ) Mark to market on unsecured hedged debt(2) (1.9 ) (1.4 ) Other liabilities, net (2.3 ) (2.6 ) Total tangible equity $ 4.8 $ 4.5 (1) Excludes goodwill and acquired intangible assets. (2) At December 31, 2011 and 2010, there were $1.6 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively, of net gains on derivatives hedging this debt in unencumbered assets, which partially offset these losses. 2011 Transactions During 2011, we issued a $2.0 billion senior unsecured bond. Additionally, we issued a total of $2.4 billion in FFELP ABS and $2.1 billion in Private Education Loan ABS. We expect to be a programmatic issuer of ABS throughout 2012. In the fourth quarter 2011, we closed on a $3.4 billion Private Education Loan asset backed commercial paper facility that matures in January 2014. This facility was used to finance the call of Private Education Loan asset backed securities in the fourth quarter 2011 and in early 2012 at a significant discount to the bonds par amount. This resulted in a reduced cost of funds compared to that of the called bonds. In 2011 we repurchased $894 million face amount of our senior unsecured notes in the aggregate, with maturity dates ranging from 2011 to 2014, which resulted in a realized Core Earnings gain of $64 million. On June 17, 2011, September 16, 2011, and December 16, 2011, we paid a quarterly dividend of $.10 per share on our common stock, the first dividends paid since early 2007. In April 2011, we authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of outstanding common stock in open market transactions and terminated all previous authorizations. During the second and third quarters of 2011, we repurchased 19.1 million shares for an aggregate purchase price of $300 million. With this action, we fully utilized this share repurchase authorization. 2012 Transactions The following financing transactions have taken place in 2012: On January 13, 2012, the FFELP ABCP Facility was amended to increase the amount available to $7.5 billion, reflecting an increase of $2.5 billion over the previously scheduled facility reduction. In addition, 77 Table of Contents the amendment extends the final maturity date by one year to January 9, 2015 and increases the amount available at future step down dates. On January 19, 2012, we issued $765 million of FFELP ABS. On January 27, 2012, we issued a two part $1.5 billion senior unsecured bond. $750 million has a five year term, the remaining $750 million has a ten year term. On February 9, 2012, we issued $547 million of Private Education Loan ABS. In addition, on January 26, 2012, we increased our quarterly dividend on our common stock to $0.125 per share. The next such quarterly dividend will be paid on March 16, 2012. We also authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of outstanding common stock. Counterparty Exposure Counterparty exposure related to financial instruments arises from the risk that a lending, investment or derivative counterparty will not be able to meet its obligations to us. Risks associated with our lending portfolio are discussed in Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition FFELP Loan Portfolio Performance and Consumer Lending Portfolio Performance. Our investment portfolio is composed of very short term securities issued by a diversified group of highly rated issuers limiting our counterparty exposure. Additionally, our investing activity is governed by Board approved limits on the amount that is allowed to be invested with any one issuer based on the credit rating of the issuer, further minimizing our counterparty exposure. Counterparty credit risk is considered when valuing investments and considering impairment. Related to derivative transactions, protection against counterparty risk is generally provided by International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) Credit Support Annexes (CSAs). CSAs require a counterparty to post collateral if a potential default would expose the other party to a loss. All derivative contracts entered into by SLM Corporation and the Bank are covered under such agreements and require collateral to be exchanged based on the net fair value of derivatives with each counterparty. Our securitization trusts require collateral in all cases if the counterpartys credit rating is withdrawn or downgraded below a certain level. Additionally, securitizations involving foreign currency notes issued after November 2005 also require the counterparty to post collateral to the trust based on the fair value of the derivative, regardless of credit rating. The trusts are not required to post collateral to the counterparties. In all cases, our exposure is limited to the value of the derivative contracts in a gain position net of any collateral we are holding. We consider counterparties credit risk when determining the fair value of derivative positions on our exposure net of collateral. We have liquidity exposure related to collateral movements between us and our derivative counterparties. Movements in the value of the derivatives, which are primarily affected by changes in interest rate and foreign exchange rates, may require us to return cash collateral held or may require us to access primary liquidity to post collateral to counterparties. If our credit ratings are downgraded from current levels, we may be required to segregate additional unrestricted cash collateral into restricted accounts. 78 Table of Contents The table below highlights exposure related to our derivative counterparties at December 31, 2011. (Dollars in millions) SLM Corporationand Sallie Mae BankContracts Securitization TrustContracts(1) Exposure, net of collateral $ 113 $ 807 Percent of exposure to counterparties with credit ratings below S&P AA or Moodys Aa3 98 % 32 % Percent of exposure to counterparties with credit ratings below S&P A or Moodys A3 0 % 0 % (1) Current turmoil in the European markets has led to increased disclosure of exposure to those markets. Of the total net exposure, $691 million is related to financial institutions located in France; of this amount, $498 million carries a guarantee from the French government. $690 million of the $691 million exposure relates to derivatives held at our securitization trusts. Counterparties to these derivatives are required to post collateral when their credit rating is withdrawn or downgraded below a certain level. As of December 31, 2011, no collateral was required to be posted. Adjustments are made to our derivative valuations for counterparty credit risk. The adjustments made at December 31, 2011 related to derivatives with French financial institutions (including those that carry a guarantee from the French government) decreased the derivative asset value by $179 million. Credit risks for all derivative counterparties are assessed internally on a continual basis. Core Earnings Basis Borrowings The following tables present the ending balances of our Core Earnings basis borrowings at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, and average balances and average interest rates of our Core Earnings basis borrowings for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. The average interest rates include derivatives that are economically hedging the underlying debt but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. (See Core Earnings Definition and Limitations Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP Reclassification of Realized Gains (Losses) on Derivative and Hedging Activities of this Item 7). Ending Balances December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) ShortTerm LongTerm Total ShortTerm LongTerm Total ShortTerm LongTerm Total Unsecured borrowings: Senior unsecured debt $ 1,801 $ 15,199 $ 17,000 $ 4,361 $ 15,742 $ 20,103 $ 5,185 $ 22,797 $ 27,982 Brokered deposits 1,733 1,956 3,689 1,387 3,160 4,547 842 4,795 5,637 Retail and other deposits 2,123 2,123 1,370 1,370 204 204 Other(1) 1,329 1,329 887 887 1,268 1,268 Total unsecured borrowings 6,986 17,155 24,141 8,005 18,902 26,907 7,499 27,592 35,091 Secured borrowings: FFELP Loans securitizations 107,905 107,905 113,671 113,671 64 103,724 103,788 Private Education Loans securitizations 19,297 19,297 21,409 21,409 20,624 20,624 ED Conduit Program Facility 21,313 21,313 24,484 24,484 14,314 14,314 ED Participation Program Facility 9,006 9,006 FFELP ABCP Facility 4,445 4,445 5,853 5,853 8,801 8,801 Private Education Loans ABCP Facility 1,992 1,992 Acquisition financing(2) 916 916 1,064 1,064 FHLB DM Facility 1,210 1,210 900 900 Total secured borrowings 22,523 134,555 157,078 25,384 141,997 167,381 23,384 133,149 156,533 Total $ 29,509 $ 151,710 $ 181,219 $ 33,389 $ 160,899 $ 194,288 $ 30,883 $ 160,741 $ 191,624 (1) Other primarily consists of the obligation to return cash collateral held related to derivative exposure. (2) Relates to the acquisition of $25 billion of student loans at the end of 2010. 79 Table of Contents Secured borrowings comprised 87 percent of our Core Earnings basis debt outstanding at December 31, 2011 versus 86 percent at December 31, 2010. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) AverageBalance AverageRate AverageBalance AverageRate AverageBalance AverageRate Unsecured borrowings: Senior unsecured debt $ 19,562 2.34 % $ 24,480 1.70 % $ 31,863 1.77 % Brokered deposits 3,660 2.35 5,123 2.65 4,754 3.50 Retail and other deposits 1,684 1.11 644 1.16 128 .59 Other(1) 1,187 .17 1,159 .19 1,263 .28 Total unsecured borrowings 26,093 2.16 31,406 1.79 38,008 1.94 Secured borrowings: FFELP Loans securitizations 110,474 .93 100,967 .87 105,069 1.15 Private Education Loans securitizations 20,976 2.17 21,367 2.13 17,731 1.83 ED Conduit Program Facility 22,869 .75 15,096 .70 7,340 .75 ED Participation Program Facility 13,537 .81 14,174 1.43 FFELP ABCP Facility 4,989 1.05 6,623 1.24 15,401 2.79 Private Education Loans ABCP Facility 272 2.08 838 5.56 Acquisition financing(2) 998 4.81 3 5.28 FHLB DM Facility 893 .25 403 .35 Total secured borrowings 161,471 1.09 157,996 1.03 160,553 1.41 Total $ 187,564 1.24 % $ 189,402 1.16 % $ 198,561 1.51 % (1) Other primarily consists of the obligation to return cash collateral held related to derivative exposure. (2) Relates to the acquisition of $25 billion of student loans at the end of 2010. Contractual Cash Obligations The following table provides a summary of our obligations associated with long term notes at December 31, 2011. For further discussion of these obligations, see Note 6 Borrowings. (Dollars in millions) 1 Yearor Less 2 to 3Years 4 to 5Years Over5 Years Total Long term notes: Senior unsecured debt $ $ 5,354 $ 3,012 $ 6,833 $ 15,199 Unsecured term bank deposits 1,956 1,956 Secured borrowings(1) 12,795 26,933 18,949 75,878 134,555 Total contractual cash obligations(2) $ 12,795 $ 34,243 $ 21,961 $ 82,711 $ 151,710 (1) Includes long term beneficial interests of $127.2 billion of notes issued by consolidated VIEs in conjunction with our securitization transactions and included in long term notes in the consolidated balance sheet. Timing of obligations is estimated based on our current projection of prepayment speeds of the securitized assets. (2) The aggregate principal amount of debt that matures in each period is $12.9 billion, $34.5 billion, $22.1 billion and $83.3 billion, respectively. Specifically excludes derivative market value adjustments of $2.7 billion for long term notes. Interest obligations on notes are predominantly variable in nature, resetting quarterly based on 3 month LIBOR. Unrecognized tax benefits were $40 million and $39 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. For additional information, see Note 15 Income Taxes. 80 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations addresses our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP). Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies includes a summary of the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results may differ from these estimates under varying assumptions or conditions. On a quarterly basis, management evaluates its estimates, particularly those that include the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments and are often about matters that are inherently uncertain. The most significant judgments, estimates and assumptions relate to the following critical accounting policies that are discussed in more detail below. Allowance for Loan Losses In determining the allowance for loan losses, we estimate the principal amount of loans that will default over the next two years (two years being the expected period between a loss event and default) and how much we will recover over time related to the defaulted amount. Our historical experience indicates that, on average, the time between the date that a borrower experiences a default causing event (e.g., the loss trigger event) and the date that we charge off the unrecoverable portion of that loan is two years. Additionally, we estimate an allowance amount sufficient to cover life of loan expected losses for loans classified as a troubled debt restructuring (see further discussion below). In the first quarter of 2011, we implemented a new model to estimate the Private Education Loan default amount. Both the prior model and new model are considered migration models. Our prior allowance model (in place through December 31, 2010) segmented the portfolio into categories of similar risk characteristics of which we consider school type, credit scores, existence of a cosigner, loan status and loan seasoning as the key credit quality indicators. Our new model uses these credit quality indicators, but incorporates a more granular segmentation of seasoning data into the calculation. Another change in the new allowance model relates to the historical period of experience that we use as a starting point for projecting future defaults. Our new model is based upon a seasonal average, adjusted to the most recent three to six months of actual collection experience as the starting point and applies expected macroeconomic changes and collection procedure changes to estimate expected losses caused by loss events incurred as of the balance sheet date. Our previous model primarily used a one year historical default experience period and incorporated the estimated impact of macroeconomic factors and collection procedure changes on a qualitative basis. Our current model places a greater emphasis on the more recent default experience rather than the default experience for older historical periods, as we believe the recent default experience is more indicative of the probable losses incurred in the loan portfolio today. While we incorporated the new model in the first quarter of 2011, the overall process for calculating the appropriate amount of allowance for Private Education Loan loss did not change. Significantly more judgment has been required over the last several years, compared with years prior, in light of the U.S. economy and its effect on our customers ability to pay their obligations. We believe that the current model more accurately reflects recent borrower behavior, loan performance, and collection performance, as well as expectations about economic factors. There was no adjustment to our allowance for loan loss upon implementing this new default projection model in the first quarter of 2011. Similar to estimating defaults, we begin with historical borrower payment behavior to estimate the timing and amount of future recoveries on Private Education Loan defaults. We use judgment in determining whether historical performance is representative of what we expect to recover in the future. In contrast to the overall improvements in credit quality, delinquency and charge off trends we saw in 2011, Private Education Loans which defaulted between 2008 and 2011 for which we have previously charged off estimated losses have, to varying degrees, not met our recovery expectations to date and may continue not to do so. (See Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis Consumer Lending Segment Private Education Loans Provision for Loan Losses and Charge offs of this Item 7, for further discussion.) 81 Table of Contents On July 1, 2011, we adopted Accounting Standards Update No. 2011 02, Receivables (Topic 310), A Creditors Determination of Whether a Restructuring Is a Troubled Debt Restructuring. This new guidance clarifies when a loan restructuring constitutes a troubled debt restructuring. In applying the new guidance we have determined that certain Private Education Loans for which we have granted forbearance of greater than three months are classified as troubled debt restructurings. If a loan meets the criteria for troubled debt accounting then an allowance for loan loss is established which represents the present value of the losses that are expected to occur over the remaining life of the loan. This accounting results in a higher allowance for loan losses than our previously established allowance for these loans as our previous allowance for these loans represented an estimate of charge offs expected to occur over the next two years (two years being our loss confirmation period). The new accounting guidance was effective as of July 1, 2011 but was required to be applied retrospectively to January 1, 2011. This resulted in $124 million of additional provision for loan losses in the third quarter of 2011 from approximately $3.8 billion of student loans being classified as troubled debt restructurings. This new accounting guidance is only applied to certain borrowers who use their fourth or greater month of forbearance during the time period this new guidance is effective. This new accounting guidance has the effect of accelerating the recognition of expected losses related to our Private Education Loan portfolio. The increase in the provision for losses as a result of this new accounting guidance does not reflect a decrease in credit expectations of the portfolio or an increase in the expected life of loan losses related to this portfolio. We believe forbearance is an accepted and effective collections and risk management tool for Private Education Loans. We plan to continue to use forbearance and as a result, we expect to have additional loans classified as troubled debt restructurings in the future (see Financial Condition Consumer Lending Portfolio Performance Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses of this Item 7. for a further discussion on the use of forbearance as a collection tool). FFELP Loans are insured as to their principal and accrued interest in the event of default subject to a Risk Sharing level based on the date of loan disbursement. These insurance obligations are supported by contractual rights against the United States. For loans disbursed after October 1, 1993, and before July 1, 2006, we receive 98 percent reimbursement on all qualifying default claims. For loans disbursed on or after July 1, 2006, we receive 97 percent reimbursement. For loans disbursed prior to October 1, 1993, we receive 100 percent reimbursement. The allowance for FFELP Loan losses uses historical experience of borrower default behavior and a two year loss confirmation period to estimate the credit losses incurred in the loan portfolio at the reporting date. We apply the default rate projections, net of applicable Risk Sharing, to each category for the current period to perform our quantitative calculation. Once the quantitative calculation is performed, we review the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses and determine if qualitative adjustments need to be considered. Premium and Discount Amortization The most judgmental estimate for premium and discount amortization on student loans is the Constant Prepayment Rate (CPR), which measures the rate at which loans in the portfolio pay down principal compared to their stated terms. Loan consolidation, default, term extension and other prepayment factors affecting our CPR estimates are affected by changes in our business strategy, changes in our competitors business strategies, FFELP legislative changes, interest rates and changes to the current economic and credit environment. When we determine the CPR we begin with historical prepayment rates due to consolidation activity, defaults, payoffs and term extensions from the utilization of forbearance. We make judgments about which historical period to start with and then make further judgments about whether that historical experience is representative of future expectations and whether additional adjustment may be needed to those historical prepayment rates. In the past the consolidation of FFELP Loans and Private Education Loans significantly affected our CPRs and updating those assumptions often resulted in material adjustments to our amortization expense. As a result of the passage of HCERA, there is no longer the ability to consolidate under the FFELP. In addition, due to the current U.S. economic and credit environment, we, as well as many other industry competitors, have suspended our Private Education Loans consolidation program. As a result, we do not expect to consolidate FFELP Loans 82 Table of Contents in the future and do not currently expect others to actively consolidate our FFELP loans. As a result, we expect CPRs related to our FFELP Loans to remain relatively stable over time. See Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis FFELP Loans Segment of this Item 7, for discussion of the potential impact of a recent Special Direct Consolidation Loan Initiative. We expect that in the future both we and our competitors will begin to consolidate Private Education Loans. This is built into the CPR assumption we use for Private Education Loans. However, it is difficult to accurately project the timing and level at which this consolidation activity will begin and our assumption may need to be updated by a material amount in the future based on changes in the economy and marketplace. The level of defaults is a significant component of our FFELP Loan and Private Education Loan CPR. This component of the FFELP Loan and Private Education Loan CPR is estimated in the same manner as discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Allowance for Loan Loss of this Item 7 the only difference is for premium and discount amortization purposes the estimate of defaults is a life of loan estimate whereas for allowance for loan loss it is a two year estimate. Fair Value Measurement The most significant assumptions used in fair value measurements, including those related to credit and liquidity risk, are as follows: 1. Investments Our investments primarily consist of overnight/weekly maturity instruments with high credit quality counterparties. However, we consider credit and liquidity risk involving specific instruments in determining their fair value and, when appropriate, have adjusted the fair value of these instruments for the effect of credit and liquidity risk. These assumptions have further been validated by the successful maturity of these investments in the period immediately following the end of the reporting period. 2. Derivatives When determining the fair value of derivatives, we take into account counterparty credit risk for positions where we are exposed to the counterparty on a net basis by assessing exposure net of collateral held. The net exposure for each counterparty is adjusted based on market information available for that specific counterparty, including spreads from credit default swaps. Additionally, when the counterparty has exposure to us related to our derivatives, we fully collateralize the exposure, minimizing the adjustment necessary to the derivative valuations for our own credit risk. Trusts that contain derivatives are not required to post collateral to counterparties as the credit quality and securitized nature of the trusts minimizes any adjustments for the counterpartys exposure to the trusts. Adjustments related to credit risk reduced the overall value of our derivatives by $190 million as of December 31, 2011. We also take into account changes in liquidity when determining the fair value of derivative positions. We adjusted the fair value of certain less liquid positions downward by approximately $111 million to take into account a significant reduction in liquidity as of December 31, 2011, related primarily to basis swaps indexed to interest rate indices with inactive markets. A major indicator of market inactivity is the widening of the bid/ask spread in these markets. In general, the widening of counterparty credit spreads and reduced liquidity for derivative instruments as indicated by wider bid/ask spreads will reduce the fair value of derivatives. In addition, certain cross currency interest rate swaps hedging foreign currency denominated reset rate and amortizing notes in our trusts contain extension features that coincide with the remarketing dates of the notes. The valuation of the extension feature requires significant judgment based on internally developed inputs. 3. Student Loans Our FFELP Loans and Private Education Loans are accounted for at cost or at the lower of cost or fair value if the loan is held for sale. The fair values of our student loans are disclosed in Note 13 Fair Value Measurements. For both FFELP Loans and Private Education Loans accounted for at cost, fair value is determined by modeling loan level cash flows using stated terms of the assets and internally developed assumptions to determine aggregate portfolio yield, net present value and average life. The significant assumptions used to project cash flows are prepayment speeds, default rates, cost of funds, the amount funded by debt versus equity, and required return on equity. In addition, the Floor Income component of our FFELP Loan portfolio is valued through discounted cash 83 Table of Contents flow and option models using both observable market inputs and internally developed inputs. Significant inputs into the models are not generally market observable. They are either derived internally through a combination of historical experience and managements qualitative expectation of future performance (in the case of prepayment speeds, default rates, and capital assumptions) or are obtained through external broker quotes (as in the case of cost of funds). When possible, market transactions are used to validate the model. In most cases, these are either infrequent or not observable. For FFELP Loans classified as held for sale and accounted for at the lower of cost or market, the fair value is based on the committed sales price of the various loan purchase programs established by ED. For further information regarding the effect of our use of fair values on our results of operations, see Note 13 Fair Value Measurements. Transfers of Financial Assets and the Variable Interest Entity (VIE) Consolidation Model Changes in Accounting Principles effective January 1, 2010 The new consolidation accounting adopted on January 1, 2010 significantly changed the consolidation model for Variable Interest Entities (VIEs). This new rule, among other things, (1) eliminated the exemption for QSPEs, (2) provided a new approach for determining who should consolidate a VIE that is more focused on control rather than economic interest, (3) changed when it is necessary to reassess who should consolidate a VIE and (4) required additional disclosure. Under these new rules, if we have a variable interest in a VIE and we have determined that we are the primary beneficiary of the VIE then we will consolidate the VIE. We are considered the primary beneficiary if we have both: (1) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIEs economic performance and (2) the obligation to absorb losses or receive benefits of the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE. There is considerable judgment that has to be used as it relates to determining the primary beneficiary of the VIEs with which we are associated. There are no bright line tests. Rather, the assessment of who has the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly affects the VIEs economic performance and who has the obligation to absorb losses or receive benefits of the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE is very qualitative and judgmental in nature. However, based on our current relationship with our securitization trusts and other financing vehicles which are considered VIEs, we believe the assessment is more straightforward. As it relates to our securitized assets, we are the servicer of those securitized assets (which means we have the power to direct the activities of the trust) and we own the Residual Interest (which means we have the loss and gain obligation that could potentially be significant to the VIE) of the securitization trusts. As a result we are the primary beneficiary of our securitization trusts and other financing vehicles. See Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies for further details regarding the adoption of these new rules on January 1, 2010. Derivative Accounting The most significant judgments related to derivative accounting are: (1) concluding the derivative is an effective hedge and qualifies for hedge accounting and (2) determining the fair value of certain derivatives and hedged items. To qualify for hedge accounting a derivative must be concluded to be a highly effective hedge upon designation and on an ongoing basis. There are no bright line tests on what is considered a highly effective hedge. We use a historical regression analysis to prove ongoing and prospective hedge effectiveness. See previous discussion under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Fair Value Measurement of this Item 7 for significant judgments related to the valuation of derivatives. Although some of our valuations are more judgmental than others, we compare the fair values of our derivatives that we calculate to those provided by our counterparties on a monthly basis. We view this as a critical control which helps validate these judgments. Any significant differences with our counterparties are identified and resolved appropriately. 84 Table of Contents Goodwill and Intangible Assets In determining annually (or more frequently if required) whether goodwill is impaired, we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit, which is the same as or one level below a business segment, is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform additional goodwill impairment testing. The more likely than not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. If this more likely than not threshold is met, then we will complete a quantitative goodwill impairment analysis which consists of a comparison of the fair value of the reporting unit to our carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, a goodwill impairment analysis will be performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. If we determine that this event has occurred, we perform an analysis to determine the fair value of the business unit. There are significant judgments involved in determining the fair value of a business unit, including assumptions regarding estimates of future cash flows from existing and new business activities, customer relationships, the value of existing customer contracts, the value of other tangible and intangible assets, as well as assumptions regarding what we believe a third party would be willing to pay for all of the assets and liabilities of the business unit. This calculation requires us to estimate the appropriate discount and growth rates to apply to those projected cash flows and the appropriate control premium to apply to arrive at the final fair value. The business units for which we must estimate the fair value are not publicly traded and often there is not comparable market data available for that individual business to aid in its valuation. We use a third party appraisal firm to provide an opinion on the fair values we conclude upon. Risk Management Our Approach The products, services and markets in which we operate, as well as the various regulatory authorities and regimes to which our businesses, financial condition and lending practices are subject, continue to undergo dramatic change. We recognize that to maintain our reputation with customers and protect the interests of our shareholders and other key constituencies we must continually refresh our understanding of each of our business models, identify and manage the risks related to each of these businesses. Risk management, assessment and oversight responsibilities exist and are documented, reviewed and coordinated at various levels of the Company. Risk Oversight Our Board of Directors and its standing committees oversee our overall strategic direction, including setting our risk management philosophy, tolerance and parameters; and establishing procedures for assessing the risks our businesses face as well as the risk management practices our management team develop and utilize. We escalate to our Board of Directors any significant departures from established tolerances and parameters and review new and emerging risks. In 2011, our Board of Directors invested significant time and effort in continuing to consider and address changes in our risk profile resulting from the end of FFELP in 2010. Particular attention was paid to the strategic redirection of our businesses into consumer lending products and various strategies for expanding our business services opportunities. The format of our strategic business plan, key performance measures and related risk tolerances and parameters and escalation procedures were revised accordingly. Our Board of Directors also directed our Legal, Compliance and Internal Audit groups to work with management and the Board to review and report on the state of existing Board and management risk practices and procedures and to undertake such improvements as the Board of Directors or its committees may direct. The standing committees of our Board of Directors and their current risk oversight portfolios are as follows: Executive Committee has full authority of our Board of Directors to take action when the Board is not in session and includes all board committee chairs, lead outside director, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and 85 Table of Contents Chairman. Key risk functions include working with management to establish and present to our Board of Directors acceptable risk tolerances and parameters for the Company; periodic review and allocation of oversight of particular risks to the committees of the Board for oversight and reporting to the Board of Directors; and advance review with the Audit Committee of all our earnings releases, periodic reports and managements opinions on business outlook and financial guidance. Finance and Operations Committee assists the Board of Directors through its oversight and reporting on capital management, funding/liquidity strategy, acquisitions, and business operation matters. Key risk functions include monitoring our managements performance within agreed risk parameters and tolerances with respect to all aspects of our operational and financial risk profile, including our Private Education Loan programs and new product initiatives; credit, interest rate and currency risks; investment, asset, and liability management policies and contingency funding plan. Audit Committee assists the Board of Directors through its oversight and reporting on the integrity of our financial statements and internal controls processes. Key risk functions include periodically reviewing our financial statements and public disclosures and financial and disclosure policies and underlying assumptions; the qualifications, performance and independence of our independent auditors and Internal Audit group; managements efforts and effectiveness in managing legal and regulatory compliance and litigation risks; the risk assessment, audit plans and conduct of the Internal Audit group; our information security practices and procedures; and compliance with material aspects of the our Code of Business Conduct and related policies regarding independence and transactions with affiliates. Compensation and Personnel Committee assists the Board of Directors through its oversight and reporting matters of executive compensation and personnel. Key risk functions include the approval of compensation, benefits and employment arrangements for our CEO, other senior executive officers and the independent members of the Board; approval of all equity based plans; general oversight of all benefit, compensation and incentive plans applicable to executive management; consideration of the risk management review of compensation practices conducted at least annually by our Chief Credit and Chief Compliance Officers; advising on various human resources matters, including succession planning and talent management. Nominating and Governance Committee assists the Board of Directors through its oversight and reporting of appropriate standards for governance, board operations and qualifications and recommendations of directors. Key risk functions include establishing appropriate standards for corporate governance and guidelines, conducting our Board of Directors annual self assessment survey and taking actions regarding its results as relates to improving the operations of the Board of Directors, the qualifications of its directors and succession planning at the Board of Directors and CEO levels. Strategy Committee This committee engages the CEO and senior management from time to time to develop and prepare for the Board of Directors annual strategic planning process and facilitate the exchange of information and ideas with our management team in their development of proposals to be considered and approved by the Board of Directors regarding our long term strategic agenda and initiatives. The committee has no separate or delegated authority from that of our Board of Directors. Risk Assessment Our Internal Audit Department monitors our various risk management and compliance efforts, identifies areas that may require increased focus and resources, and reports significant control issues and recommendations to executive management and the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. At least annually, Internal Audit performs a risk assessment to identify our top risks and to help develop the annual internal audit plan. Risks are rated on significance and likelihood of occurrence and communicated to our management team members who allocate appropriate attention and resources. The risk assessment focuses on those risks most relevant to us and our subsidiaries (including the Bank). The assessment process includes completion of an anonymous survey by our officers followed by interviews with and reports to senior leadership. 86 Table of Contents Risk Management Our senior executive management team, individually and through participation in or more of our internal risk management committees, are ultimately responsible for the management of risk across our businesses. Each of these committees or their senior executive sponsors have specified periodic reporting and issue escalation obligations to our Board of Directors and their standing committees. Our key internal risk management committees currently include: Disclosure Committee reviews and approves content of periodic SEC reporting documents, earnings releases and related disclosure policies and procedures. Loan Loss Reserve Committee oversees the sufficiency of our loan loss reserves and considers current or emerging issues affecting delinquency and default trends which may result in adjustments in our allowances for loan losses. Critical Accounting Assumptions Committee oversees critical accounting assumptions, as well as key judgments and estimates, utilized in preparation of our financial statements. Asset and Liability Committee oversees our investment portfolio and strategy and our compliance with our investment policy. Corporate Credit Committee oversees the overall credit and portfolio management strategy, policy review and monitoring. Corporate Compliance Committee oversees regulatory compliance risk management activities for Sallie Mae and its affiliates. ICE Steering Committee oversees our Internal Controls Excellence (ICE) initiative and Sarbanes Oxley compliance and sponsors periodic forums in which the top internal control deficiencies are discussed and analyzed to ensure the control deficiencies are identified, understood by all relevant affected parties, and have established resolution plans supported by adequate resources. Customer Products and Services Assessment Committee considers all matters relating to risks affecting us and our wholly and majority owned subsidiaries associated with new, expanded, or modified products or services and makes recommendations regarding proposed products or service offerings based on their inherent risks and controls. Each business segment is primarily responsible and accountable for managing risks specific to its area utilizing formalized processes and procedures that have been developed by each division in collaboration with internal risk management partners to identify, monitor, manage and escalate the risks specific to that business segments activities. Our executive management team and internal risk management partners, including compliance, credit risk, human resources, legal, information technology, finance and accounting, and information security are responsible for providing our business segments with the training, systems and specialized expertise necessary to properly perform their risk management duties. Our Significant Risks Significant risks may be grouped into the following categories: (1) funding and liquidity; (2) operational; (3) political/reputational; (4) market; (5) credit; and (6) legal and compliance. More specific descriptions of the particular risks of each type we currently face are discussed in Item 1A Risk Factors above. Funding and Liquidity Risk Management Funding and liquidity risk involves our potential inability to fund liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, fund asset growth and business operations, and meet contractual obligations at reasonable market 87 Table of Contents rates. Our primary liquidity objective is to ensure our ongoing ability to meet our funding needs for our businesses throughout market cycles, including during periods of financial stress. Our two primary liquidity risks involve our ongoing ability to originate Private Education Loans and retire indebtedness as it matures. Key objectives associated with our funding liquidity needs relate to our ability to access the capital markets at reasonable rates and to continue to maintain retail deposits and funding sources through the Bank. Our funding and liquidity risk management activities are centralized within our Corporate Finance department, which is responsible for planning and executing our funding activities and strategies. We analyze and monitor our liquidity risk, maintain excess liquidity and access diverse funding sources depending on current market conditions. Funding and liquidity risks are overseen and recommendations approved primarily through our internal Asset and Liability Committee. The Finance and Operations Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for periodically reviewing and approving our funding and liquidity positions and contingency funding plan. Our Board of Directors also receives regular reports on our performance against funding and liquidity plans at each meeting. Operational Risk Management Operational risk arises from the potential that inadequate information systems, operational problems, breaches in internal controls, fraud, or unforeseen catastrophes will result in unexpected losses. The cornerstone of our annual operational risk management program involves our Board of Directors approval of our annual strategic business plan and managements recommendations for how to grow our business while focused on managing risks to acceptable parameters. Our Board of Directors receives operations reports (which includes operating metrics and performance against annual plan) from our Chief Executive and Chief Operating Officers at each regularly scheduled meeting. Additionally, the Finance & Operations Committee receives business development updates regarding our various business initiatives that provide information and metrics about each key component of business operations. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors receives periodic information security updates and reviews operational and systems related matters to insure their implementation produce no significant internal control issues. Operational risk exposures are managed through a combination of business line management and enterprise wide oversight. Our Chief Operating Officer (COO) is responsible for all of our business operations (credit, servicing, collections, and technology). Management committees, comprised of senior managers and subject matter experts, focus on particular aspects of operational risk. Enterprise wide oversight is conducted by a number of our internal risk management committees listed above. Most comprehensively, the Customer Products and Services Assessment Committee confirms that in connection with new, expanded, or modified products or services it recommends for approval that all significant risks are properly identified; adequate controls are in place to monitor risks to established, prudent limits; and monitoring of risk management activities, exposures, and issues are performed. Market Risk Management Market risk is the risk to our financial condition resulting from adverse movements in market rates or prices, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads or equity prices. We are exposed to various types of market risk, in particular interest rate risk and other risks that arise through the management of our investment portfolio. Market risk exposures are managed through our internal Asset and Liability Committee. The responsibilities of this committee include: maintaining oversight and responsibility for all risks associated with managing our assets and liabilities, and recommending limits to be included in our risk appetite and investment structure. These activities are closely tied to those related to the management of our funding and liquidity risks. Consequently, the Finance and Operations Committee of the Board of Directors is also responsible for periodically reviewing and approving our investment and asset and liability management policies and contingency funding plan. The Finance and Operations Committee as well as our Chief Financial Officer report to the full Board of Directors on matters of market risk management. 88 Table of Contents Political and Reputation Risk Management Political and reputation risk is the risk that changes in laws and regulations or actions affecting impacting our reputation could affect the profitability and sustainability of our business. Management proactively assesses and manages political and reputation risk. Our government relations team of employees manages our review and response to all formal inquiries from members of Congress, state legislators, and their staff, including providing targeted messaging that reinforces our public policy goals. We review and consider political and reputational risks on an integrated basis in connection with the risk management oversight activities conducted in the various aspects of our business on matters as diverse as the launch of new products and services, our credit underwriting activities and how we fund our operations. Our public relations, marketing and media teams constantly monitor our perception in print, electronic and social media; actively provide assistance and support to our customers and other constituencies and maintain and promote the value of our considerable corporate brand. Significant political and reputation risks are reported to and monitored by the Finance and Operations Committee of our Board of Directors. Our Legal, Government Relations and Compliance groups efforts are coordinated through our General Counsel and regularly meet and collaborate with our Media and Investor Relations teams to provide more coordinated monitoring and management of our political and reputational risks. Credit and Counterparty Risk Management Credit and counterparty risk is the risk of loss stemming from one partys failure to repay a loan or otherwise meet a contractual obligation. We have credit or counterparty risk exposure with borrowers and co borrowers with whom we have made Private Education Loans, the various counterparties with whom we have entered into derivative contracts, the various issuers with whom we make investments, and with several higher education institutions related to academic facilities loans secured by real estate. Credit and counterparty risks are overseen by our Chief Credit Officer, his staff and the internal risk management committee he chairs. Our Chief Credit Officer reports regularly to our Board of Directors, Finance and Operations and Audit Committees with respect to the various matters of which each have oversight. The credit risk related to Private Education Loans are managed within a credit risk infrastructure which includes (i) a well defined underwriting and collection policy framework; (ii) an ongoing monitoring and review process of portfolio segments and trends; (iii) assignment and management of credit authorities and responsibilities; and (iv) establishment of an allowance for loan losses that covers estimated losses based upon portfolio and economic analysis. Credit and counterparty risk related to derivative contracts is managed by reviewing counterparties for credit strength on an ongoing basis and via our credit policies, which place limits on the amount of exposure we may take with any one counterparty and, in most cases, require collateral to secure the position. The credit and counterparty risk associated with derivatives is measured based on the replacement cost should the counterparties with contracts in a gain position to the Company fail to perform under the terms of the contract. Compliance and Legal Risk Management Compliance risk is the operational risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, financial loss or damage to reputation resulting from failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, other regulatory requirements, or codes of conduct and other standards of self regulatory organizations applicable to us. Legal risk arises, in part, from the potential that unenforceable contracts, lawsuits or adverse judgments can disrupt or otherwise negatively affect our operations or condition. These risks are inherent in all of our businesses. Both compliance and legal risk are sub sets of operational risk but are recognized as a separate and complementary risk category given their importance in our business. We can be exposed to regulatory and compliance risk in key areas such as our private education lending, collections or loan servicing businesses if compliance with legal and regulatory requirements is not properly implemented, documented or tested, as well as when an oversight program does not include appropriate audit and control features. 89 Table of Contents The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors has oversight over the establishment of standards related to our monitoring and control of regulatory and compliance risks and the qualification of employees overseeing these risk management functions. The Audit Committee annually approves our Corporate Compliance Plan, has responsibility for considering significant breaches of our Code of Business Conduct and receives regular reports from executive management team members responsible for the regulatory and compliance risk management functions. Primary ownership and responsibility for regulatory and compliance risk is placed with the business segments to manage their specific regulatory and compliance risks. Our Compliance group supports these activities by providing extensive training, monitoring and testing of the processes, policies and procedures utilized by our business segments, maintaining consumer lending regulatory and information security policies and procedures, and working in close coordination with our Legal group. Our Corporate Compliance Committee serves as a regular internal forum where key compliance issues and risks are discussed and business, compliance and legal professional review testing of existing regulatory compliance procedures and approve new or revised procedures. Our Code of Business Conduct and the on going training our employees receive in many compliance areas provide a framework for our employees to conduct themselves with the highest integrity. We instill a risk conscious culture through communications, training, policies and procedures. We have strengthened the linkage between the management performance process and individual compensation to encourage employees to work toward corporate wide compliance goals. Common Stock The following table summarizes our common share repurchases and issuances. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Common stock repurchased 19,054,115 Average purchase price per share $ 15.77 $ $ Shares repurchased related to employee stock based compensation plans(1) 3,024,662 1,097,647 263,640 Average purchase price per share $ 15.71 $ 13.44 $ 20.29 Authority remaining at end of period for repurchases 38,841,923 38,841,923 Common shares issued 3,886,217 1,803,683 536,134 (1) Comprises shares withheld from stock option exercises and vesting of restricted stock for employees tax withholding obligations and shares tendered by employees to satisfy option exercise costs. The closing price of our common stock on December 31, 2011 was $13.40. Our shareholders have authorized the issuance of 1.125 billion shares of common stock (par value of $.20). At December 31, 2011, 509 million shares were issued and outstanding and 34.9 million shares were unissued but encumbered for outstanding stock options for employee compensation and remaining authority for stock based compensation plans. The stock based compensation plans are described in Note 11, Stock Based Compensation Plans and Arrangements. In March 2011, we retired 70 million shares of common stock held in treasury. This retirement decreased the balance in treasury stock by $1.9 billion, with corresponding decreases of $14 million in common stock and $1.9 billion in additional paid in capital. There was no impact to total equity from this transaction. During 2009, we converted $339 million of our Series C Preferred Stock to common stock. As part of this conversion, we delivered to the holders of the preferred stock: (1) approximately 17 million shares (the number 90 Table of Contents of common shares they would most likely receive if the preferred stock they held mandatorily converted to common shares in the fourth quarter of 2010) plus (2) a discounted amount of the preferred stock dividends the holders of the preferred stock would have received if they held the preferred stock through the mandatory conversion date. The accounting treatment for this conversion resulted in additional dividends recorded as part of preferred stock dividends for the year of approximately $53 million. On December 15, 2010, the mandatory conversion date, the remaining 810,370 shares of our Series C Preferred Stock were converted into 41 million shares of common stock. Dividend and Share Repurchase Program On June 17, 2011, September 16, 2011, and December 16, 2011, we paid a quarterly dividend of $.10 per share on our common stock, the first dividends paid since early 2007. In April 2011, we authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of outstanding common stock in open market transactions and terminated all previous authorizations. During the second and third quarters of 2011, we repurchased 19.1 million shares for an aggregate purchase price of $300 million. With this action, we fully utilized this share repurchase authorization. On January 26, 2012, we increased the quarterly dividend on our common stock to $.125 per share. The next such quarterly dividend will be paid on March 16, 2012. We also authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of outstanding common stock in open market transactions. 91 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis Our interest rate risk management seeks to limit the impact of short term movements in interest rates on our results of operations and financial position. The following tables summarize the potential effect on earnings over the next 12 months and the potential effect on fair values of balance sheet assets and liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010, based upon a sensitivity analysis performed by management assuming a hypothetical increase in market interest rates of 100 basis points and 300 basis points while funding spreads remain constant. Additionally, as it relates to the effect on earnings, a sensitivity analysis was performed assuming the funding index increases 25 basis points while holding the asset index constant, if the funding index is different than the asset index. The earnings sensitivity is applied only to financial assets and liabilities, including hedging instruments, that existed at the balance sheet date and does not take into account new assets, liabilities or hedging instruments that may arise in 2012. As of December 31, 2011Impact on Annual Earnings If: As of December 31, 2010Impact on Annual Earnings If: Interest Rates: FundingSpreads Interest Rates: FundingSpreads (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Increase100 BasisPoints Increase300 BasisPoints Increase25 BasisPoints(1) Increase100 BasisPoints Increase300 BasisPoints Increase25 BasisPoints(1) Effect on Earnings Change in pre tax net income before unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities $ 3 $ 61 $ (419 ) $ (129 ) $ (140 ) $ (368 ) Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities 493 814 (16 ) 131 82 (28 ) Increase in net income before taxes $ 496 $ 875 $ (435 ) $ 2 $ (58 ) $ (396 ) Increase in diluted earnings per common share $ .965 $ 1.702 $ (.846 ) $ .004 $ (0.110 ) $ (.746 ) (1) If an asset is not funded with the same index/frequency reset of the asset then it is assumed the funding index increases 25 basis points while holding the asset index constant. 92 Table of Contents At December 31, 2011 Interest Rates: Change fromIncrease of100 BasisPoints Change fromIncrease of300 BasisPoints (Dollars in millions) Fair Value $ % $ % Effect on Fair Values Assets Total FFELP Loans $ 134,196 $ (665 ) % $ (1,335 ) (1 )% Private Education Loans 33,968 Other earning assets 9,871 (1 ) Other assets 8,943 (639 ) (7 ) (1,420 ) (16 )% Total assets gain/(loss) $ 186,978 $ (1,304 ) (1 )% $ (2,756 ) (1 )% Liabilities Interest bearing liabilities $ 171,152 $ (730 ) % $ (2,002 ) (1 )% Other liabilities 4,128 (617 ) (15 ) (801 ) (19 ) Total liabilities (gain)/loss $ 175,280 $ (1,347 ) (1 )% $ (2,803 ) (2 )% At December 31, 2010 Interest Rates: Change fromIncrease of100 BasisPoints Change fromIncrease of300 BasisPoints (Dollars in millions) Fair Value $ % $ % Effect on Fair Values Assets Total FFELP Loans $ 147,163 $ (649 ) % $ (1,318 ) (1 )% Private Education Loans 30,949 Other earning assets 11,641 (1 ) (2 ) Other assets 9,449 (565 ) (6 ) (996 ) (11 )% Total assets gain/(loss) $ 199,202 $ (1,215 ) (1 )% $ (2,316 ) (1 )% Liabilities Interest bearing liabilities $ 187,959 $ (704 ) % $ (1,938 ) (1 )% Other liabilities 3,136 (217 ) (7 ) 257 8 Total liabilities (gain)/loss $ 191,095 $ (921 ) % $ (1,681 ) (1 )% A primary objective in our funding is to minimize our sensitivity to changing interest rates by generally funding our floating rate student loan portfolio with floating rate debt. However, due to the ability of some FFELP loans to earn Floor Income, we can have a fixed versus floating mismatch in funding if the student loan earns at the fixed borrower rate and the funding remains floating. In addition, we can have a mismatch in the index (including the frequency of reset) of floating rate debt versus floating rate assets. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, certain FFELP Loans were earning Floor Income and we locked in a portion of that Floor Income through the use of Floor Income contracts. The result of these hedging transactions was to convert a portion of the fixed rate nature of student loans to variable rate, and to fix the relative spread between the student loan asset rate and the variable rate liability. In the preceding tables, under the scenario where interest rates increase 100 and 300 basis points, the change in pre tax net income before the unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities is primarily due to the impact of (i) our unhedged loans being in a fixed rate mode due to Floor Income, while being funded with 93 Table of Contents variable debt in low interest rate environments; and (ii) a portion of our variable assets being funded with fixed rate liabilities and equity. Item (i) will generally cause income to decrease when interest rates increase from a low interest rate environment, whereas item (ii) will generally offset this decrease. The variance in the change in pre tax income before unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives when comparing the 2011 analysis versus the 2010 analysis was the result of the SLC acquisition at December 31, 2010. In the 2010 analysis, the assets from the acquisition that earn Floor Income were reflected in the analysis at December 31, 2010, however, the Floor Income Contracts hedging these assets were not entered into until the first half of 2011. Therefore the 2010 analysis reflects a large decrease in this line from the loss of the unhedged Floor Income as rates were increased. In the 2011 analysis, this Floor Income had been hedged and the increase in the line resulted from a portion of our variable assets being funded with fixed rate debt. The large increase in the unrealized gains on derivatives and hedging activities line in the 2011 analysis versus the 2010 analysis, primarily is due to the impact of the additional Floor Income Contracts discussed above. Under the scenario in the tables above labeled Asset and Funding Index Mismatches, the main driver of the decrease in pre tax income before unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities is the result of LIBOR based debt funding commercial paper indexed assets. See Asset and Liability Funding Gap of this Item 7A for a further discussion. Increasing the spread between indices will also impact the unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives and hedging activities as it relates to basis swaps that hedge the mismatch between the asset and funding indices. In addition to interest rate risk addressed in the preceding tables, we are also exposed to risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. Foreign currency exchange risk is primarily the result of foreign currency denominated debt issued by us. When we issue foreign denominated corporate unsecured and securitization debt, our policy is to use cross currency interest rate swaps to swap all foreign currency denominated debt payments (fixed and floating) to U.S. dollar LIBOR using a fixed exchange rate. In the tables above, there would be an immaterial impact on earnings if exchange rates were to decrease or increase, due to the terms of the hedging instrument and hedged items matching. The balance sheet interest bearing liabilities would be affected by a change in exchange rates; however, the change would be materially offset by the cross currency interest rate swaps in other assets or other liabilities. In the current economic environment, volatility in the spread between spot and forward foreign exchange rates has resulted in material mark to market impacts to current period earnings which have not been factored into the above analysis. The earnings impact is noncash, and at maturity of the instruments the cumulative mark to market impact will be zero. Asset and Liability Funding Gap The tables below present our assets and liabilities (funding) arranged by underlying indices as of December 31, 2011. In the following GAAP presentation, the funding gap only includes derivatives that qualify as effective hedges (those derivatives which are reflected in net interest margin, as opposed to those reflected in the gains (losses) on derivatives and hedging activities, net line on the consolidated statements of income). The difference between the asset and the funding is the funding gap for the specified index. This represents our exposure to interest rate risk in the form of basis risk and repricing risk, which is the risk that the different indices may reset at different frequencies or may not move in the same direction or at the same magnitude. Management analyzes interest rate risk and in doing so includes all derivatives that are economically hedging our debt whether they qualify as effective hedges or not (Core Earnings basis). Accordingly, we are also presenting the asset and liability funding gap on a Core Earnings basis in the table that follows the GAAP presentation. 94 Table of Contents GAAP Basis Index (Dollars in billions) Frequency ofVariableResets Assets Funding(2) FundingGap 3 month Commercial paper(1) daily $ 129.6 $ $ 129.6 3 month Treasury bill weekly 7.6 7.6 Prime annual .7 .7 Prime quarterly 4.9 4.9 Prime monthly 21.8 21.8 Prime daily 2.8 (2.8 ) PLUS Index annual .5 .5 3 month LIBOR daily 3 month LIBOR quarterly 120.3 (120.3 ) 1 month LIBOR monthly 9.6 16.9 (7.3 ) CMT/CPI Index monthly/quarterly 1.6 (1.6 ) Non Discrete reset(3) monthly 32.8 (32.8 ) Non Discrete reset(4) daily/weekly 9.8 3.5 6.3 Fixed Rate(5) 8.8 15.4 (6.6 ) Total $ 193.3 $ 193.3 $ (1) See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis FFELP Loans Segment FFELP Loans Net Interest Margin for discussion regarding Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012 and the effect it will have on the FFELP student lender payment index in 2012. (2) Funding includes all derivatives that management considers economic hedges of interest rate risk and reflects how we internally manage our interest rate exposure. (3) Funding consists of auction rate securities, the ABCP Facilities, the ED Conduit Program facility and the FHLB DM facility. (4) Assets include restricted and unrestricted cash equivalents and other overnight type instruments. Funding includes retail and other deposits and the obligation to return cash collateral held related to derivatives exposures. (5) Assets include receivables and other assets (including goodwill and acquired intangibles). Funding includes other liabilities and stockholders equity (excluding series B Preferred Stock). The Funding Gaps in the above table are primarily interest rate mismatches in short term indices between our assets and liabilities. We address this issue typically through the use of basis swaps that typically convert quarterly reset three month LIBOR to other indices that are more correlated to our asset indices. These basis swaps do not qualify as effective hedges and as a result the effect on the funding index is not included in our interest margin and is therefore excluded from the GAAP presentation. 95 Table of Contents Core Earnings Basis Index (Dollars in billions) Frequency ofVariableResets Assets Funding(2) FundingGap 3 month Commercial paper(1) daily $ 129.6 $ $ 129.6 3 month Treasury bill weekly 7.6 1.8 5.8 Prime annual .7 .7 Prime quarterly 4.9 4.9 Prime monthly 21.8 4.5 17.3 Prime daily 2.8 (2.8 ) PLUS Index annual .5 .5 3 month LIBOR daily 20.2 (20.2 ) 3 month LIBOR quarterly 79.0 (79.0 ) 1 month LIBOR monthly 9.6 26.1 (16.5 ) 1 month LIBOR daily 8.0 (8.0 ) Non Discrete reset(3) monthly 32.9 (32.9 ) Non Discrete reset(4) daily/weekly 9.8 3.5 6.3 Fixed Rate(5) 6.1 11.8 (5.7 ) Total $ 190.6 $ 190.6 $ (1) See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis FFELP Loans Segment FFELP Loans Net Interest Margin for discussion regarding Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012 and the effect it will have on the FFELP student lender payment index in 2012. (2) Funding includes all derivatives that management considers economic hedges of interest rate risk and reflects how we internally manage our interest rate exposure. (3) Funding consists of auction rate securities, the ABCP Facilities, the ED Conduit Program facility and the FHLB DM facility. (4) Assets include restricted and unrestricted cash equivalents and other overnight type instruments. Funding includes retail and other deposits and the obligation to return cash collateral held related to derivatives exposures. (5) Assets include receivables and other assets (including goodwill and acquired intangibles). Funding includes other liabilities and stockholders equity (excluding series B Preferred Stock). We use interest rate swaps and other derivatives to achieve our risk management objectives. Our asset liability management strategy is to match assets with debt (in combination with derivatives) that have the same underlying index and reset frequency or when economical, have interest rate characteristics that we believe are highly correlated. For example, a large portion of our daily reset 3 month commercial paper indexed assets are funded with liabilities indexed to LIBOR. The use of funding with index types and reset frequencies that are different from our assets exposes us to interest rate risk in the form of basis and repricing risk. This could result in our cost of funds not moving in the same direction or with the same magnitude as the yield on our assets. While we believe this risk is low, as all of these indices are short term with rate movements that are highly correlated over a long period of time, market disruptions can lead to a temporary divergence between indices resulting in a negative impact to our earnings. 96 Table of Contents Weighted Average Life The following table reflects the weighted average life for our earning assets and liabilities at December 31, 2011. (Averages in Years) Weighted AverageLife Earning assets Student loans 7.6 Other loans 6.3 Cash and investments 0.1 Total earning assets 7.2 Borrowings Short term borrowings 0.3 Long term borrowings 7.0 Total borrowings 5.9 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Counterparty Exposure. If our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. 15 Table of Contents Regulatory and Compliance. Delays and continuing uncertainties surrounding the ultimate scope and implementation of various provisions of the Dodd Frank Act cause us to continue to be unable to fully assess the risks and implications the law could have on our profitability, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows or future business prospects. The Dodd Frank Act contains comprehensive change to banking laws, imposing significant regulation on almost every aspect of the U.S. financial services industry, including increased capital and liquidity requirements, limits on leverage, and enhanced supervisory authority. A year after passage, most of the component parts of the Dodd Frank Act remain subject to intensive rulemaking and public comment causing continuing uncertainty in our ability to predict the ultimate effect the Dodd Frank Act or required examinations of the private education loan market could have on our operations or those of our subsidiaries. Our operational expenses will likely increase to address new or additional compliance requirements that could be imposed on our operations as a result of the implementation of various provisions of the Dodd Frank Act as the risk of penalties and fines on all businesses may increase and our profitability, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows or future business prospects could be affected as a result. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is now authorized to exercise the full authority provided to it by the Dodd Frank Act though much uncertainty remains about how this authority will be implemented or utilized. A number of our businesses will likely be subject to new rules and regulations not yet proposed or finalized and we may face complaints and challenges to our practices from the CFPB or state regulatory counterparts. In July 2011, responsibility for many consumer financial protection functions formerly assigned to the federal banking and other agencies were transferred to the CFPB. The CFPB has broad authority with respect to some of the businesses in which we engage. It has authority to write regulations under federal consumer financial protection laws, and to directly or indirectly enforce those laws and examine financial institutions for compliance. It is authorized to collect fines and provide consumer restitution in the event of violations, engage in consumer financial education, track consumer complaints, request data and promote the availability of financial services to underserved consumers and communities. It has authority to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive practices by issuing regulations that define the same or by using its enforcement authority without first issuing regulations. Under the Dodd Frank Act, the CFPB and ED are required to prepare a report on the Private Education Loan industry by July 2012 that examines, among other things, the private education loan market; underwriting criteria used by lenders; loan terms, conditions and pricing; consumer protections available to borrowers; and fair lending considerations. The Dodd Frank Act also created a Private Education Ombudsman within the CFPB to receive and attempt to informally resolve complaints about Private Education Loans, and the CFPB plans to receive such complaints through its online consumer complaint system. The Dodd Frank Act authorizes state officials to enforce regulations issued by the CFPB and to enforce the Dodd Frank Acts general prohibition against unfair, deceptive or abusive practices, and makes it more difficult than in the past for federal financial regulators to declare state laws that differ from federal standards preempted. To the extent states enact requirements that differ from federal standards or state officials and courts adopt interpretations of federal consumer laws that differ from those adopted by the CFPB, our compliance costs could increase and reduce our ability to offer the same products and services to consumers nationwide and we may be subject to a higher risk of state enforcement actions. 16 Table of Contents The Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) could designate SLM Corporation as a systemically important non bank financial company to be supervised by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the FRB). Designation of SLM Corporation as a so called SIFI would impose significant additional statutorilydefined monitoring and compliance regimes on our business and could significantly increase the levels of risk based capital and highly liquid assets we are required to hold. Required implementation of some or all of the measures currently proposed by the FRB to be applicable to SIFIs would have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. On October 11, 2011, FSOC published a second notice of proposed rulemaking and related interpretive guidance under the Dodd Frank Act regarding the designation of non bank systemically important financial institutions (SIFIs). If designated as a SIFI, a non bank financial company will be supervised by the FRB and be subject to enhanced prudential supervision and regulatory standards to be developed by the FRB. The new proposal sets forth a three stage determination process for designating non bank SIFIs. In Stage 1, FSOC would apply a set of uniform quantitative thresholds to identify the non bank financial companies that will be subject to further evaluation. Based on its financial condition as of December 31, 2011, SLM Corporation would meet the criteria in Stage 1 and would be subject to further evaluation by FSOC in the SIFI determination process. Because Stages 2 and 3 as proposed would involve qualitative judgment by FSOC, we cannot predict whether SLM Corporation will be designated as a SIFI under the rule as currently proposed. For a further discussion of our belief as to the limited risk SLM Corporation poses to the financial stability of the United States, see Item 1 Business Recent Legislation Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. On December 20, 2011 the FRB issued proposed rules to implement the enhanced prudential supervisory and regulatory standards required of bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, as well as SIFIs. As currently proposed, the rules would require, among other things, that SIFIs: Be subject to a minimum Tier 1 common risk based capital ratio of 5 percent and generally be required to comply with bank regulatory capital and leverage requirements, subject to any case by case exceptions as the FRB might approve; Comply with formal regulatory liquidity standards and hold highly liquid assets on hand sufficient to survive a projected 30 day liquidity crisis; Be subject to new liquidity risk management and governance requirements, approval of liquidity risk models, and implementation of liquidity monitoring and compliance regimes; Employ a chief risk officer to report directly to the chief executive officer and a required risk committee of the Board of Directors; Be subject to periodic company and FRB run supervisory stress tests; and Periodically report to the FDIC and FRB on plans for rapid and orderly resolution of company affairs in the event of a material financial distress or failure. We currently maintain significantly more than 5 percent capital against our Private Education Loans and significantly less than 5 percent capital against our FFELP Loans. We are not currently subject to consolidated capital requirements. Unless an exception were made to recognize the unique, federally insured nature of FFELP Loans, if we were designated as a SIFI, our risk based capital requirements would likely increase. While we maintain our own contingency funding plans and conduct our own internal periodic stress tests, we have never been subject to an FRB supervised stress test nor have we developed a plan for orderly resolution of the scope and magnitude currently being demanded of large bank holding companies. Complying with these measures and implementing any or all of these as yet undefined, formalized statutory monitoring and compliance regimes could significantly increase our cost of doing business and the levels of capital and liquidity we are required to hold and, consequently, have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Our businesses are regulated by various state and federal laws and regulations, and our failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in significant costs, sanctions, litigation or the loss of insurance and guarantees on affected FFELP Loans. Our businesses are subject to numerous state and federal laws and regulations and our failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in significant costs, including litigation costs, and or business sanctions. In addition, changes to such laws and regulations could adversely impact our business and results of operations if we are not able to adequately mitigate the impact of such changes. Our private credit lending and debt collection businesses are subject to regulation and oversight by various state and federal agencies, particularly in the area of consumer protection. Some state attorneys general have been active in this area of consumer protection regulation. We are subject, and may be subject in the future, to inquiries and audits from state and federal regulators as well as frequent litigation from private plaintiffs. The Bank is subject to state and FDIC regulation, oversight and regular examination. The FDIC and state regulators have the authority to impose fines, penalties or other limitations on the Banks operations should they conclude that its operations are not compliant with applicable laws and regulations. At the time of this filing, the Bank was the subject of a cease and desist order for weaknesses in its compliance function. While the issues addressed in the order have largely been remediated, the order has not yet been lifted. Our failure to comply with various laws and regulations or with the terms of the cease and desist order or to have issues raised during an examination could result in litigation expenses, fines, business sanctions, and limitations on our ability to fund our Private Education Loans, which are currently funded by deposits raised by the Bank, or restrictions on the operations of the Bank. The imposition of fines, penalties or other limitations on the Banks business could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Loans serviced under the FFELP are subject to the HEA and related regulations. Our servicing operations are designed and monitored to comply with the HEA, related regulations and program guidance; however ED could determine that we are not in compliance for a variety of reasons, including that we misinterpreted ED guidance or incorrectly applied the HEA and its related regulations or policies. Failure to comply could result in fines, the loss of the insurance and related federal guarantees on affected FFELP Loans, expenses required to cure servicing deficiencies, suspension or termination of our right to participate as a servicer, negative publicity and potential legal claims. A summary of the FFELP may be found in Appendix A Federal Family Education Loan Program. The imposition of significant fines, the loss of the insurance and related federal guarantees on a material number of FFELP Loans, the incurrence of additional expenses and or the loss of our ability to participate as a FFELP servicer could individually or in the aggregate have a material, negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties The following table lists the principal facilities owned by us as of December 31, 2011: Location Function Business Segment(s) ApproximateSquare Feet Fishers, IN Loan Servicing and Data Center Consumer Lending; Business Services; FFELP Loans 450,000 Newark, DE Headquarters Consumer Lending; Business Services; FFELP Loans; Other 160,000 Wilkes Barre, PA Loan Servicing Center Consumer Lending; Business Services; FFELP Loans 133,000 Indianapolis, IN Loan Servicing Center Business Services 100,000 Big Flats, NY GRC Collections Center Business Services 60,000 Arcade, NY(1) Pioneer Credit Recovery Collections Center Business Services 46,000 Perry, NY(1) Pioneer Credit Recovery Collections Center Business Services 45,000 (1) In the first quarter of 2003, we entered into a ten year lease with the Wyoming County Industrial Development Authority with a right of reversion to us for the Arcade and Perry, New York facilities. The following table lists the principal facilities leased by us as of December 31, 2011: Location Function Business Segment(s) ApproximateSquare Feet Reston, VA Administrative Offices Consumer Lending; Business Services; FFELP Loans; Other 90,000 Newark, DE Sallie Mae Operations Center Consumer Lending; Business Services; Other 86,000 Niles, IL Collections Center Other 84,000 Newton, MA Upromise Business Services 78,000 Cincinnati, OH GRC Headquarters and Collections Center Business Services 59,000 Muncie, IN Collections Center Consumer Lending; Business Services 54,000 Moorestown, NJ Pioneer Credit Recovery Collections Center Business Services 30,000 White Plains, NY(1) N/A N/A 26,000 Kansas City, MO Upromise and Campus Payment Solutions Business Services 21,000 Whitewater, WI(2) N/A N/A 16,000 Murray, UT Sallie Mae Bank Consumer Lending; Business Services 10,000 (1) Space vacated in December 2009 and lease terminated in February 2012. (2) Space vacated in September 2010; we are actively searching for subtenants or tenants. None of the facilities that we own is encumbered by a mortgage. We believe that our headquarters, loan servicing centers, data center, back up facility and data management and collections centers are generally adequate to meet our long term student loan and business goals. Our headquarters are currently in owned space at 300 Continental Drive, Newark, Delaware, 19713. We relocated our headquarters to Newark, Delaware from Reston, Virginia on March 31, 2011. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Investor Litigation In Re SLM Corporation Securities Litigation. On January 31, 2008, a putative class action lawsuit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York alleging that the Company and certain officers violated federal securities laws by, among other things, issuing a series of materially false and misleading statements with respect to our financial results for year end 2006 and the first quarter of 2007. This case and other actions arising out of the same circumstances and alleged acts have been consolidated and are now identified as In Re SLM Corporation Securities Litigation. The case purports to be brought on behalf of those who acquired our common stock between January 18, 2007 and January 23, 2008. On January 24, 2012, the court certified a class, appointed class counsel and appointed a class representative. On February 10, 2012, the parties entered into a settlement term sheet under which we agreed to pay $35 million, which amount includes all 19 Table of Contents attorneys fees, administration costs, expenses, class member benefits, and costs of any kind associated with the resolution of this matter. We have denied vigorously all claims asserted against us, but agreed to settle to avoid the burden, expense, risk and uncertainty of continued litigation. The entire settlement amount will be paid by our insurers and the settlement is subject to us entering into a formal settlement agreement and Court approval. In Re SLM Corporation ERISA Litigation. A similar case is pending against the Company, certain current and former officers, retirement plan fiduciaries, and the Board of Directors of the Company, formerly in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York and now before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, alleging breaches of fiduciary duties and prohibited transactions in violation of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act arising out of alleged false and misleading public statements regarding our business made during the 401K Class Period and investments in our common stock by plan participants in the 401K Plans. The case was originally filed on May 8, 2008 and the purported class consists of participants in or beneficiaries of the Sallie Mae 401(K) Retirement Savings Plan and Sallie Mae 401(k) Savings Plan (together, the 401K Plans) between January 18, 2007 and the present whose accounts included investments in our common stock (401K Class Period). On September 24, 2010, this case was dismissed; however, the Plaintiffs appealed. The appeal is pending. In addition, the Plaintiffs filed a motion to hold the appeal in abeyance pending the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuits decision in In re: Citigroup ERISA Litigation and Garren v. McGraw Hill Cos., Inc., two cases with related issues of law. On October 11, 2011, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit held, among other things, that the Citigroup defendants decision not to divest the plan of Citigroup stock or impose restrictions on participants investment in that stock was entitled to a presumption of prudence and subject to abuse of discretion standard. The Plaintiffs in both those cases are seeking en banc review. The Plaintiffs/Appellants seek unspecified damages, attorneys fees, costs, and equitable and injunctive relief. Lending and Collection Litigation and Investigations U.S. ex rel. Batiste v. SLM Corporation, et al. On July 15, 2009, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia unsealed the qui tam False Claims Act complaint of relator Sheldon Batiste, a former employee of SLM Financial Corporation, which alleged that we violated the False Claims Act by our systemic failure to service loans and abide by forbearance regulations and our receipt of U.S. subsidies to which it was not entitled through FFELP. On November 4, 2011, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit affirmed the U.S. District Courts previous dismissal of the complaint in the fall of 2010. Mark A. Arthur et al. v. Sallie Mae, Inc. On February 2, 2010, a putative class action suit was filed by a borrower in U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington alleging that we contacted consumers on their cellular telephones via autodialer without their consent in violation of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, 47 U.S.C. 227 et seq. (TCPA). Each violation under the TCPA provides for $500 in statutory damages ($1,500 if a willful violation is shown). Plaintiffs were seeking statutory damages, damages for willful violations, attorneys fees, costs, and injunctive relief. On October 7, 2011, we entered into an amended settlement agreement under which the Company agreed to a settlement fund of $24.15 million. We have denied vigorously all claims asserted against us, but agreed to settle to avoid the burden, expense, risk and uncertainty of continued litigation. On January 10, 2012, the Court denied, without prejudice, the Motion for Preliminary Approval of the amended settlement agreement noting, however, that although the proposed settlement satisfies the Courts requirement of overall fairness, the Court expressed concern regarding the proposed form of notice and other forms to be provided in connection with the settlement. On February 9, 2012, the Plaintiffs filed a Renewed Motion for Preliminary Approval addressing the Courts concerns. Rodriguez v. SLM Corporation et al. On December 17, 2007, plaintiffs filed a complaint against us in the U.S. District Court for the District of Connecticut alleging that we engaged in underwriting practices which, among other things, resulted in certain applicants for student loans being directed into substandard and expensive loans on the basis of race. On June 20, 2011, we agreed to settle the case and denied all allegations of wrongdoing and liability. We entered into the settlement to avoid the burden, expense, risk and uncertainty of 20 Table of Contents continued litigation. On October 17, 2011, the court provided final approval of the settlement. We do not expect the settlement to have a material impact on our financial position or our business. The Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates also are subject to various claims, lawsuits and other actions that arise in the normal course of business. Most of these matters are claims by borrowers disputing the manner in which their loans have been processed or the accuracy of our reports to credit bureaus. In addition, our collections subsidiaries are routinely named in individual plaintiff or class action lawsuits in which the plaintiffs allege that those subsidiaries have violated a federal or state law in the process of collecting their accounts. We believe that these claims, lawsuits and other actions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Finally, from time to time, the Company receives information and document requests from state attorneys general and Congressional committees concerning certain business practices. Our practice has been and continues to be to cooperate with the state attorneys general and Congressional committees and to be responsive to any such requests. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures N/A 21 Table of Contents PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is listed and traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol SLM since December 12, 2011. Previously, our common stock was listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange. As of January 31, 2012, there were 509,322,190 shares of our common stock outstanding and 504 holders of record. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for our common stock for each full quarterly period within the two most recent fiscal years. Common Stock Prices 1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter 2011 High $ 15.60 $ 17.11 $ 17.11 $ 14.53 Low 12.61 14.40 11.60 10.91 2010 High $ 13.32 $ 13.96 $ 12.40 $ 13.14 Low 10.01 9.85 10.05 10.92 We paid quarterly cash dividends on our common stock of $.10 per share for the last three quarters of 2011. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table provides information relating to our purchase of shares of our common stock in the three months ended December 31, 2011. Total Numberof SharesPurchased(1) Average PricePaid perShare Total Number ofShares Purchasedas Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs(2) Maximum Numberof Shares thatMay Yet BePurchased Underthe Plans orPrograms(2) (Common shares in millions) Period: October 1 October 31, 2011 $ November 1 November 30, 2011 .1 13.49 December 1 December 31, 2011 Total fourth quarter .1 $ 13.49 (1) The total number of shares purchased includes: (i) shares purchased under the stock repurchase program discussed below and (ii) shares of our common stock tendered to us to satisfy the exercise price in connection with cashless exercise of stock options, and tax withholding obligations in connection with exercise of stock options and vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units. (2) In April 2011, our board of directors authorized us to purchase up to $300 million of shares of our common stock in open market transactions, and terminated all previous authorizations. As of September 30, 2011, we had fully utilized this authorization and purchased 19.1 million shares of our common stock. 22 Table of Contents Stock Performance The following graph compares the yearly change in our cumulative total shareholder return on our common stock to that of Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index and Standard & Poors Financials Index. The graph assumes a base investment of $100 at December 31, 2006 and reinvestment of dividends through December 31, 2011. Five Year Cumulative Total Shareholder Return Company/Index 12/31/06 12/31/07 12/31/08 12/31/09 12/31/10 12/31/11 SLM Corporation $ 100.0 $ 41.5 $ 18.4 $ 23.2 $ 26.0 $ 28.2 S&P 500 Financials. 100.0 81.9 37.5 43.7 49.0 40.7 S&P Index 100.0 105.5 66.9 84.3 96.8 98.8 Source: Bloomberg Total Return Analysis 23 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data Selected Financial Data 2007 2011 (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) The following table sets forth our selected financial and other operating information prepared in accordance with GAAP. The selected financial data in the table is derived from our consolidated financial statements. The data should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements, related notes, and Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Operating Data: Net interest income $ 3,529 $ 3,479 $ 1,723 $ 1,365 $ 1,588 Net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations, net of tax $ 600 $ 597 $ 544 $ 2 $ (938 ) Discontinued operations, net of tax 33 (67 ) (220 ) (215 ) 42 Net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation $ 633 $ 530 $ 324 $ (213 ) $ (896 ) Basic earnings (loss) per common share attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations $ 1.13 $ 1.08 $ .85 $ (.23 ) $ (2.36 ) Discontinued operations .06 (.14 ) (.47 ) (.46 ) .10 Total $ 1.19 $ .94 $ .38 $ (.69 ) $ (2.26 ) Diluted earnings (loss) per common share attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations $ 1.12 $ 1.08 $ .85 $ (.23 ) $ (2.36 ) Discontinued operations .06 (.14 ) (.47 ) (.46 ) .10 Total $ 1.18 $ .94 $ .38 $ (.69 ) $ (2.26 ) Dividends per common share attributable to SLM Corporation common shareholders $ .30 $ $ $ $ .25 Return on common stockholders equity 14 % 13 % 5 % (9 )% (22 )% Net interest margin 1.85 1.82 1.05 .93 1.26 Return on assets .33 .28 .20 (.14 ) (.71 ) Dividend payout ratio 25 (11 ) Average equity/average assets 2.54 2.47 2.96 3.45 3.51 Balance Sheet Data: Student loans, net $ 174,420 $ 184,305 $ 143,807 $ 144,802 $ 124,153 Total assets 193,345 205,307 169,985 168,768 155,565 Total borrowings 183,966 197,159 161,443 160,158 147,046 Total SLM Corporation stockholders equity 5,243 5,012 5,279 4,999 5,224 Book value per common share 9.20 8.44 8.05 7.03 7.84 Other Data: Off balance sheet securitized student loans, net $ $ $ 32,638 $ 35,591 $ 39,423 24 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. This discussion and analysis also contains forward looking statements and should also be read in conjunction with the disclosures and information contained in Forward Looking and Cautionary Statements and Item 1A Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Through this discussion and analysis, we intend to provide the reader with some narrative context for how our management views our consolidated financial statements, additional context within which to assess our operating results, and information on the quality and variability of our earnings, liquidity and cash flows. Overview Our primary business is to originate, service and collect loans we make to students and or their parents to finance the cost of their education. The core of our marketing strategy is to generate student loan originations by promoting our products on campus through the financial aid office and through direct marketing to students and their families. We also provide servicing, loan default aversion and defaulted loan collection services for loans owned by other institutions, including ED. We also provide processing capabilities to educational institutions, 529 college savings plan program management services and a consumer savings network. In addition we are the largest holder, servicer and collector of loans made under FFELP, a program that was discontinued in 2010. We monitor and assess our ongoing operations and results based on the following four reportable segments: (1) Consumer Lending, (2) Business Services, (3) FFELP Loans and (4) Other. Consumer Lending Segment In this segment, we originate, acquire, finance and service Private Education Loans. The Private Education Loans we make are largely to bridge the gap between the cost of higher education and the amount funded through financial aid, federal loans or borrowers resources. In this segment, we earn net interest income on the Private Education Loan portfolio (after provision for loan losses) as well as servicing fees, primarily late fees. As of December 31, 2011, we had $36.3 billion of Private Education Loans outstanding. In 2011, we originated $2.7 billion of Private Education Loans, up 19 percent from $2.3 billion in the prior year. Business Services Segment In our Business Services segment we provide loan servicing to our FFELP Loans segment, ED and other third parties. We provide servicing, default aversion and contingency collections work on behalf of ED, Guarantors of FFELP Loans, and other institutions. Our Campus Solutions business provides comprehensive transaction processing solutions and associated technology to college financial aid offices and students to streamline the financial aid process. We provide 529 college savings plan account asset servicing and other transaction processing activities. We offer, tuition, renters and student health insurance to college students and higher education institutions. FFELP Loans Segment Our FFELP Loans segment consists of our $138 billion FFELP Loan portfolio and underlying debt and capital funding these loans. Because we no longer originate FFELP Loans the portfolio is in runoff and is expected to amortize over approximately the next 20 years with a weighted average remaining life of 7.6 years. 25 Table of Contents We actively seek to acquire FFELP Loan portfolios to leverage our servicing scale and expertise to generate incremental earnings and cash flow. Of our total FFELP Loan portfolio, 94 percent was funded with non recourse, long term debt; 76 percent of our FFELP Loan portfolio being funded to term by securitization trusts, 15 percent funded through the ED Conduit Program which terminates on January 19, 2014, and 3 percent funded in our multi year ABCP facility. This segment is expected to generate a stable net interest margin and significant amounts of cash as the FFELP portfolio amortizes. Other Our Other segment primarily consists of the financial results related to activities of our holding company, including the repurchase of debt, the corporate liquidity portfolio and all overhead. We also include results from smaller wind down and discontinued operations within this segment. Key Financial Measures Our operating results are primarily driven by net interest income from our student loan portfolios (which includes financing costs), provision for loan losses, the revenues and expenses generated by our service businesses, and gains and losses on loan sales and debt repurchases. We manage and assess the performance of each business segment separately as each is focused on different customers and each derives its revenue from different activities and services. A brief summary of our key financial measures are listed below. Net Interest Income The most significant portion of our earnings is generated by the spread earned between the interest income we receive on assets in our student loan portfolios and the interest expense of funding these loans. We report these earnings as net interest income. Net interest income in our Consumer Lending and FFELP Loans segments are driven by significantly different factors. Consumer Lending Segment Net interest income in this segment is determined by the Private Education Loan asset yields, which are determined by interest rates established by us based upon the credit of the borrower and any co borrower and the level of price competition in the Private Education Loan market less our cost of funds. Our Private Education Loans earn variable rate interest and are funded primarily with variable rate liabilities. The Consumer Lending segments Core Earnings net interest margin was 4.1 percent in 2011 compared with 3.9 percent in 2010. Our cost of funds can be influenced by a number of factors including the quality of the loans in our portfolio, our corporate credit rating, general economic conditions, investor demand for Private Education Loan ABS and corporate unsecured debt and competition in the deposit market. At December 31, 2011, 56 percent of our Private Education Loan portfolio was funded with non recourse, long term debt; 51 percent of our Private Education Loans being funded to term by securitization trusts. FFELP Loans Segment Net interest income will be the primary source of cash flow generated by this segment over the next 20 years as this portfolio runs off. Historically, interest earned on our FFELP Loans was primarily indexed to commercial paper rates and our cost of funds was indexed to three month LIBOR, creating the possibility of significant basis and repricing risk related to these assets. Recent changes to the applicable law will allow us, beginning in the second quarter of 2012, to index interest earned to one month LIBOR rather than commercial paper rates, significantly reducing basis and repricing risk on $130 billion of our FFELP Loans. The FFELP Loans segments Core Earnings net interest margin was 0.98 percent in 2011 compared with 0.93 percent in 2010. The major source of variability in net interest income is expected to be Floor Income. Pursuant to the terms of the FFELP, certain FFELP Loans, in certain situations, continue to earn interest at the stated fixed rate of 26 Table of Contents interest even if underlying debt costs decrease. We refer to this additional spread income as Floor Income. This Floor Income can be volatile as rates on underlying debt move up and down. We generally hedge this risk by selling Floor Income Contracts which lock in the value of the Floor Income over the term of the contract. Additional cash flow should be generated within this segment as many of our secured financing vehicles are over collateralized, creating the potential for additional cash flow to be distributed to us over time as the loans amortize. Provisions for Loan Losses Management estimates and maintains an allowance for loan losses generally at a level sufficient to cover charge offs expected over the next two years, plus additional allowance to cover life of loan expected losses for loans classified as a troubled debt restructuring. The provision is an income statement item that reduces segment revenues. Generally the allowance rises when charge offs are expected to increase and falls when charge offs are expected to decline. Our loss exposure and resulting provision for losses is smaller for FFELP Loans than for Private Education Loans because we bear a maximum of 3 percent loss exposure on our FFELP Loans whereas we bear the full credit exposure on our Private Education Loans. Our provision for losses in our FFELP Loans segment was $86 million in 2011 compared with $98 million in 2010. Losses in our Consumer Lending segment are primarily driven by risk characteristics such as school type, loan status (in school, grace, forbearance, repayment and delinquency), loan seasoning (number of months in active repayment for which a scheduled payment was due), underwriting criteria (e.g., credit scores), existence or absence of a cosigner and the current economic environment. Our provision for loan losses in our Consumer Lending segment was $1.2 billion in 2011 compared with $1.3 billion in 2010. Charge Offs and Delinquencies When we conclude a loan is uncollectable, the unrecoverable portion of the loan is charged against the allowance for loan losses in the applicable lending segment. Information regarding charge offs provides relevant information over time with respect to the actual performance of our loan portfolios as compared against the provisions for loan losses on those portfolios. Management focuses on the overall level of delinquencies as well as the progression of loans from early to late stage delinquency. The FFELP segment charge off rate was 0.08 percent of loans in repayment in 2011 compared with 0.11 percent in 2010. The Consumer Lending segments charge off rate was 3.7 percent of loans in repayment in 2011 compared with 5.0 percent of loans in repayment in 2010. Delinquencies are a very important indicator of the potential future credit performance. Private Education Loan delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment decreased from 10.6 percent at December 31, 2010 to 10.1 percent at December 31, 2011. Servicing and Contingency Revenues We earn servicing revenues from servicing student loans, Campus Solutions, and from account asset servicing related to 529 college savings plans. We earn contingency revenue related to default aversion and contingency collections work we perform primarily on federal loans. The fees we recognize are primarily driven by our success in collecting or rehabilitating defaulted loans, the number of transactions processed and the underlying volume of loans we are servicing on behalf of others. Other Income / (Loss) In managing our loan portfolios and funding sources we periodically engage in sales of loans and the repurchase of our outstanding debt. In each case, depending on market conditions, we may incur gains or losses from these transactions that affect our results from operations. 27 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The operating expenses reported for our Consumer Lending and Business Services segments are those that are directly attributable to the generation of revenues by those segments. The operating expenses for the FFELP Loans segment primarily represent an intercompany servicing charge from the Business Services segment and do not reflect our actual underlying costs incurred to service the loans. We have included corporate overhead expenses and certain information technology costs (together referred to as Overhead) in our Other segment rather than allocate those expenses by segment. These overhead expenses include costs related to executive management, the board of directors, accounting, finance, legal, human resources, stock based compensation expense and certain information technology costs related to infrastructure and operations. Core Earnings We report financial results on a GAAP basis and also present certain Core Earnings performance measures. Our management, equity investors, credit rating agencies and debt capital providers use these Core Earnings measures to monitor our business performance. Core Earnings is the basis in which we prepare our segment disclosures as required by GAAP under ASC 280 Segment Reporting (see Note 16 Segment Reporting). For a full explanation of the contents and limitations of Core Earnings, see Core Earnings Definition and Limitations of this Item 7. 2011 Summary of Results We continue to operate in a challenging macroeconomic environment marked by high unemployment and uncertainty which contributes added uncertainty to Private Education Loan repayment and default patterns. On July 1, 2010, the HCERA eliminated FFELP Loan originations, a major source of our net income. All federal loans to students are now made through the DSLP and as discussed above, we no longer originate FFELP Loans. In addition, on July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd Frank Act that represents a comprehensive change to banking laws, imposing significant new regulation on almost every aspect of the U.S. financial services industry. A discussion of HCERA and the Dodd Frank Act can be found in Item 1 Business and in Item 1A Risk Factors in our 2011 Form 10 K. Despite this environment, we were able to achieve significant accomplishments during 2011 as discussed below. GAAP 2011 net income was $633 million ($1.18 diluted earnings per share), versus net income of $530 million ($.94 diluted earnings per share) in the prior year. The changes in GAAP net income are driven by the same Core Earnings items discussed below as well as changes in mark to market unrealized gains and losses on derivative contracts and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets that are recognized in GAAP but not in core earnings results. In 2011, we had a $623 million increase in unrealized mark to market losses on derivative contracts and $660 million less goodwill and intangible asset impairment compared with 2010. Core Earnings for the year were $977 million ($1.83 diluted earnings per share) compared to $1.03 billion ($1.92 diluted earnings per share) in 2010. Core Earnings were down due to a decrease in gains on loan sales and debt repurchases from the prior year ($574 million or $.69 per diluted share in 2010). Excluding these gains on loan sales and debt repurchases in 2010, Core Earnings were up $521 million year over year due to improvements in net interest income, loan loss provision, expenses and discontinued operations. During 2011, we raised $2 billion of unsecured debt and issued $2.4 billion of FFELP ABS and $2.1 billion of Private Education Loan ABS. We also repurchased $894 million of debt and realized Core Earnings gains of $64 million in 2011, compared with $4.9 billion and $317 million in 2010. 28 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter 2011, we also closed a $3.4 billion Private Education Loan asset backed commercial paper facility that matures in January 2014. This facility was used to finance the call of Private Education Loan asset backed securities at significant discounts to the par value. We also achieved a key management objective of again being able to return capital to our shareholders. During the second and third quarters of 2011, we repurchased 19.1 million common shares on the open market as part of our previously announced $300 million share repurchase program authorization. We have fully utilized this authorization. We declared and paid a $.10 per share dividend during the second, third and fourth quarters of 2011. 2011 Management Objectives In 2011 we set out five major goals to create shareholder value. They were: (1) reduce our operating expenses; (2) prudently grow Consumer Lending segment assets and revenue; (3) increase Business Services segment revenue; (4) maximize cash flows from FFELP Loans; and (5) reinstate dividends and or share repurchases. We believe we achieved each of these objectives in 2011. The following describes our performance relative to each of our 2011 goals. Reduce Operating Expenses The elimination of FFELP by HCERA greatly reduced our revenue generating capabilities. In 2010 we originated $14 billion of loans, 84 percent of them FFELP Loans; in 2011 we originated $2.7 billion of new loans, all of them Private Education Loans. As a result of the decline in our FFELP related revenue, we determined we must effectively match our cost structure to our ongoing business. As such, we set a goal of having a quarterly operating expense of $250 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 (by comparison, our 2010 fourth quarter operating expenses were $308 million). We achieved this goal as our fourth quarter 2011 operating expenses were $243 million. Prudently Grow Consumer Lending Segment Assets and Revenue Successfully growing Private Education Loan lending is the key component of our long term plan to grow shareholder value. We achieved this goal by originating increasing numbers of high quality Private Education Loans, with higher net interest margins and lower charge offs and provision for loan losses. Originations were 19 percent higher in 2011 compared with 2010 with average FICO and cosigner rates higher compared with the prior year. Core Earnings net interest margin increased from 3.9 percent to 4.1 percent. Charge offs decreased to 3.7 percent of loans in repayment from 5.0 percent in 2010. Provision for loan loss decreased to $1.18 billion from $1.3 billion in 2010. Increase Business Services Segment Revenue Our Business Services segment comprises several businesses with customers related to FFELP that will experience revenue declines and several businesses with customers that provide growth opportunities. Our growth businesses are ED servicing, ED collections, other school based asset type servicing and collections, Campus Solutions, Sallie Mae Insurance Services, transaction processing and 529 college savings plan account asset servicing. We achieved this goal as our Business Services segment revenue increased from $1.3 billion in 2010 to $1.4 billion in 2011. Our allocation of new customer loans awarded for servicing under our ED Servicing Contract increased from 22 percent to 26 percent for the current contract year ending August 15, 2012. The increase was driven primarily by our top ranking for default prevention performance results. We are servicing approximately 3.6 million accounts under the ED Servicing Contract as of December 31, 2011. Campus Solutions added 44 new refund disbursement clients in 2011. We also announced a Sallie Mae Bank No Fee Student Checking Account with Debit as an enhanced refund disbursement choice for schools and students. This new option complements existing Campus Solutions refund disbursement choices that include electronic deposit to the bank account of the students choice, debit card or a check. 29 Table of Contents Assets under management in 529 college savings plans total $37.5 billion and grew 9 percent year over year. We recently were selected to continue as the program manager for New Yorks 529 College Savings Program under a seven year contract, which is currently being negotiated. New York has the largest direct 529 plan in the country. We launched Sallie Mae Insurance Services in 2011, offering college students and higher education institutions tuition, renters and student health insurance. We acquired SC Services & Associates, Inc., a provider of collections services to local governments and courts to enhance and complement our other contingency collection businesses. Maximize Cash Flows from FFELP Loans We have a $138 billion portfolio of FFELP Loans that is expected to generate significant amounts of cash flow and earnings in the coming years. We planned to improve our net interest margin, further minimize income volatility and opportunistically purchase additional FFELP Loan portfolios such as the portfolio we purchased at the end of 2010. We achieved this goal in 2011 by acquiring $1.6 billion of FFELP loans and improving our net interest margin from 93 basis points in 2010 to 98 basis points in 2011. Reinstate Dividends and or Share Repurchases We achieved our objective of either paying dividends or repurchasing shares, or both by the second half of 2011. Beginning in June, we began to pay quarterly dividends of $.10 per share on our common stock, the first since 2007. In April 2011, we authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of outstanding common stock in open market transactions and terminated all previous authorizations. During the second and third quarters of 2011, we paid $300 million to repurchase 19.1 million common shares on the open market. 2012 Outlook We expect the operating strength we demonstrated in 2011 to continue in 2012. We plan to increase Core Earnings primarily through improving Private Education Loan portfolio performance and lower operating expenses. Loan originations are also expected to increase in 2012. We expect to remain an active participant in the capital markets in 2012. Our term ABS activity will feature multiple transactions backed by both FFELP collateral, primarily reducing the ED Conduit Facility, as well as Private Education Loan collateral. We will remain an opportunistic issuer in the unsecured debt markets primarily to facilitate asset liability management activities. Recent transactions in all of the above mentioned categories have been met with strong demand and provide term financing which is a key component of our business model. Recognizing the strong financial position we are in, the Board of Directors approved a 25 percent increase in our quarterly dividend and a $500 million share repurchase program in January 2012. Despite this significant return of capital to our shareholders from earnings, we expect to end 2012 with a stronger balance sheet and better capital ratios. Credit losses within our Private Education Loan portfolio are primarily driven by the quality of loans entering repayment, improving underlying portfolio quality, the quality of new originations and the general economic environment. The fourth quarter 2011 repayment cohort, at $1.5 billion, was the smallest in the last five years, and had better FICO scores and higher cosigner rates than in previous years which should result in lower future losses. The underlying portfolio has continued to improve with 62 percent of the loans cosigned, less than 10 percent non traditional and over 72 percent of our customers currently in repayment having made more than 12 payments. In addition, the loans originated in 2011 had an average FICO score of 748 and were 91 percent cosigned; these statistics are our highest ever for a loan origination cohort. As a result, we believe that charge offs and provision for loan losses will continue their downward trend. 30 Table of Contents 2012 Management Objectives In 2012 we have set out five major goals to create shareholder value. They are: (1) prudently grow Consumer Lending segment assets and revenue; (2) sustain Business Services segment revenue; (3) maximize cash flows from FFELP Loans; (4) reduce our operating expenses; and (5) improve our financial strength. Here is how we plan to achieve these objectives: Prudently Grow Consumer Lending Segment Assets and Revenues We will continue to pursue managed growth in our Private Education Loan portfolio in 2012, currently targeting $3.2 billion in new originations for the year compared to $2.7 billion in 2011. We will also be increasing our efforts to improve our return on these assets projecting even lower charge off rates and provision for loan losses, continuing to build on the improvements we have been demonstrating in these measures since 2009. Sustain Business Services Segment Revenue Our Business Services segment generates the vast majority of its revenue from servicing and collecting on our FFELP Loan portfolio and FFELP Loans for others. As a result of the elimination of FFELP in 2010, servicing and collection revenues derived from FFELP related sources are in decline. In 2012 we will work to offset these declines through two primary means pursuing additional growth and expansion of our non FFELP related servicing and collection businesses and seeking to increase the FFELP related loan servicing and collection work we do for third parties. In 2012 we are targeting significant growth in the number of customers we service for ED under our ED servicing and collection contracts, as well as in the total assets under management in our 529 college savings plans. We will explore both complementary and diversified strategies to expand demand for our services in and beyond the student loan market. We will also more aggressively seek to leverage our existing FFELP servicing platforms to be able to provide lower cost FFELP servicing to others while increasing segment revenues from these sources. Maximize Cash Flows from FFELP Loans In 2012 we will continue to focus on opportunistically purchasing additional FFELP Loan portfolios from other lenders. As cash flows from our existing FFELP Loans decline over coming years, it also becomes increasingly important that we actively manage and continue to reduce operating and overhead costs attributable to the maintenance and management of this segment. Continuing to reduce these operating and overhead costs will also increase net income for our Business Services segment. Reduce Operating Expenses We achieved our 2011 management objective of having a quarterly operating expense of $250 million or less in the fourth quarter of 2011. In 2012 we will strive to sustain or improve on this quarterly run rate for the full fiscal year. Improve Our Financial Strength In January 2012 we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.125 per share and a new $500 million common share repurchase program. Of equal note, it is managements objective for 2012 to provide these increased shareholder distributions while at the same time ending 2012 with a balance sheet and capital positions as strong or stronger than those with which we ended in 2011. 31 Table of Contents Results of Operations We present the results of operations first on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. As discussed earlier, we have four business segments, Consumer Lending, Business Services, FFELP Loans and Other. Since these segments operate in distinct business environments, the discussion following the Consolidated Earnings Summary is presented on a segment basis and is shown on a Core Earnings basis. See Item 1 Business Business Segments for further discussion on the components of each segment. 32 Table of Contents GAAP Statements of Income Increase (Decrease) Years Ended December 31, 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2011 2010 2009 $ % $ % Interest income FFELP Loans $ 3,461 $ 3,345 $ 3,094 $ 116 3 % $ 251 8 % Private Education Loans 2,429 2,353 1,582 76 3 771 49 Other loans 21 30 56 (9 ) (30 ) (26 ) (46 ) Cash and investments 19 26 26 (7 ) (27 ) Total interest income 5,930 5,754 4,758 176 3 996 21 Total interest expense 2,401 2,275 3,035 126 6 (760 ) (25 ) Net interest income 3,529 3,479 1,723 50 1 1,756 102 Less: provisions for loan losses 1,295 1,419 1,119 (124 ) (9 ) 300 27 Net interest income after provisions for loan losses 2,234 2,060 604 174 8 1,456 241 Other income (loss): Securitization servicing and Residual Interest revenue 295 (295 ) (100 ) Gains (losses) on loans and investments, net (35 ) 325 284 (360 ) (111 ) 41 14 Losses on derivative and hedging activities, net (959 ) (361 ) (604 ) (598 ) 166 243 (40 ) Servicing revenue 381 405 440 (24 ) (6 ) (35 ) (8 ) Contingency revenue 333 330 294 3 1 36 12 Gains on debt repurchases 38 317 536 (279 ) (88 ) (219 ) (41 ) Other income 68 6 88 62 1,033 (82 ) (93 ) Total other income (loss) (174 ) 1,022 1,333 (1,196 ) (117 ) (311 ) (23 ) Expenses: Operating expenses 1,100 1,208 1,043 (108 ) (9 ) 165 16 Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment and amortization expense 24 699 76 (675 ) (97 ) 623 820 Restructuring expenses 9 85 10 (76 ) (89 ) 75 750 Total expenses 1,133 1,992 1,129 (859 ) (43 ) 863 76 Income from continuing operations, before income tax expense 927 1,090 808 (163 ) (15 ) 282 35 Income tax expense 328 493 264 (165 ) (33 ) 229 87 Net income from continuing operations 599 597 544 2 53 10 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 33 (67 ) (220 ) 100 149 153 (70 ) Net income 632 530 324 102 19 206 64 Less: net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (1 ) (1 ) (100 ) Net income attributable to SLM Corporation 633 530 324 103 19 206 64 Preferred stock dividends 18 72 146 (54 ) (75 ) (74 ) (51 ) Net income attributable to SLM Corporation common stock $ 615 $ 458 $ 178 $ 157 34 % $ 280 157 % Basic earnings (loss) per common share attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations $ 1.13 $ 1.08 $ .85 $ .05 5 % $ .23 27 % Discontinued operations .06 (.14 ) (.47 ) .20 143 .33 (70 ) Total $ 1.19 $ .94 $ .38 $ .25 27 % $ .56 147 % Diluted earnings (loss) per common share attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations $ 1.12 $ 1.08 $ .85 $ .04 4 % $ .23 27 % Discontinued operations .06 (.14 ) (.47 ) .20 143 .33 (70 ) Total $ 1.18 $ .94 $ .38 $ .24 26 % $ .56 147 % Dividends per common share $ .30 $ $ $ .30 100 % $ % 33 Table of Contents Consolidated Earnings Summary GAAP basis Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2010 For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, net income was $633 million, or $1.18 diluted earnings per common share, and $530 million, or $.94 diluted earnings per common share, respectively. The increase in net income for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared with the prior year period was primarily due to $660 million of goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, which were partially non tax deductible, recorded in the year ago period, a $124 million decrease in the provisions for loan losses, a $100 million increase in income from discontinued operations and $108 million of lower operating expenses. These improvements were partially offset by a $598 million increase in net losses on derivative and hedging activities, a $279 million decrease in gains on debt repurchases and a $360 million decrease in net gains on loans and investments. The primary contributors to each component of net income for the current year compared with the year ago period are as follows: Net interest income increased by $50 million primarily from incremental net interest income earned on $25 billion of securitized FFELP loans acquired on December 31, 2010. Provisions for loan losses decreased by $124 million, as the $124 million of additional provision related to the implementation of new accounting guidance for troubled debt restructurings (TDRs) in the third quarter of 2011 (see Consumer Lending Segment Private Education Loans Provision for Loan Losses and Charge offs for further discussion), was more than offset by overall improvements in credit quality and delinquency and charge off trends. Gains on loans and investments, net, declined $360 million as a result of a $321 million gain recognized in the fourth quarter of 2010 from the sale of FFELP Loans to ED as part of the EDs Loan Purchase Commitment Program (the Purchase Program) which ended in 2010. Also, in 2011 we recorded $26 million of impairment on certain aircraft leases which were primarily related to leveraged lease investments with American Airlines, which filed for bankruptcy in the fourth quarter of 2011. 2011 also has a $9 million mark to market loss related to classifying our entire $12 million portfolio of non U.S. dollar denominated student loans as held for sale. Net losses on derivatives and hedging activities increased by $598 million primarily due to interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations, affecting the valuations of our Floor Income Contracts, basis swaps and foreign currency hedges during the period. Valuations of derivative instruments vary based upon many factors including changes in interest rates, credit risk, foreign currency fluctuations and other market factors. As a result, net gains and losses on derivatives and hedging activities may vary significantly in future periods. Servicing revenue decreased by $24 million primarily due to the end of FFELP in 2010, thereby eliminating Guarantor issuance fees we earn on new FFELP Loans. Outstanding FFELP Loans on which we earn additional fees also declined. Gains on debt repurchases decreased $279 million as we repurchased less debt in the current period. Debt repurchase activity will fluctuate based on market fundamentals and our liability management strategy. Other income increased by $62 million primarily as a result of a $25 million gain from the termination and replacement of a credit card affiliation contract and $27 million from an increase in foreign currency translation gains. The foreign currency translation gains relate to a portion of our foreign currency denominated debt that does not receive hedge accounting treatment. These gains were partially offset by losses on derivative and hedging activities, net line item in the consolidated statements of income related to the derivatives used to economically hedge these debt investments. Operating expenses decreased $108 million primarily as a result of our on going cost savings initiative. 34 Table of Contents Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment and amortization expense declined $675 million compared with the prior year primarily due to the $660 million impairment recognized in the third quarter of 2010 in response to the passage of the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (HCERA), which resulted in the elimination of the FFELP and significantly reduced the future earnings for several of our reporting units. Restructuring expenses decreased $76 million primarily as a result of the substantial completion of our plan for restructuring initiated in response to legislation ending FFELP in 2010. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were 35 percent and 45 percent, respectively. The improvement in the effective tax rate was primarily driven by the impact of non tax deductible goodwill impairments recorded in 2010. Net income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $33 million compared with a net loss from discontinued operations of $67 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The change was primarily driven by a $23 million after tax gain realized from the sale of our Purchased Paper Non Mortgage portfolio in the third quarter of 2011 compared to $52 million of after tax impairments recognized in 2010. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2009 For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, net income was $530 million, or $.94 diluted earnings per common share, and $324 million, or $.38 diluted earnings per common share, respectively. The increase in net income for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared with the prior year was primarily due to a $1.5 billion increase in net interest income after provisions for loan losses and a $243 million decrease in net losses on derivative and hedging activities. These improvements were partially offset by a $660 million goodwill and intangible asset impairment charge in 2010, a $165 million increase in operating expenses, a $219 million decrease in gains on debt repurchases and a decrease in securitization servicing and Residual Interest revenue of $295 million. The primary contributors to each of the identified drivers of changes in income from continuing operations before income tax expense for the year over year period are as follows: Net interest income after provisions for loan losses increased by $1.5 billion in the year ended December 31, 2010 from the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in net interest income and provisions for loan losses was partially due to the adoption as of January 1, 2010 of the new consolidation accounting guidance which resulted in the consolidation of $35.0 billion of assets and $34.4 billion of liabilities in certain securitizations trusts. (See Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies for a further discussion of the effect of adopting the new consolidation accounting guidance). The consolidation of these securitization trusts as of January 1, 2010 resulted in $998 million of additional net interest income and $355 million of additional provisions for loan losses for the year ended December 31, 2010. Excluding the effect of the trusts being consolidated as of January 1, 2010, net interest income increased $758 million from the year ended 2009 and provisions for loan losses decreased $55 million from the year ended 2009. The increase in net interest income, excluding the effect of the new consolidation accounting guidance, was primarily the result of an increase in the FFELP Loans net interest margin primarily due to an improvement in our funding costs, a 24 basis point tightening of the CP/LIBOR spread and the effect of not receiving hedge accounting treatment for derivatives used to economically hedge risk affecting net interest income. The decrease in the provisions for loan losses relates to the Private Education Loan loss provision, which decreased as a result of the improving performance of the portfolio. Securitization servicing and Residual Interest revenue was no longer recorded in fiscal year 2010 due to the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance; however, we recognized $295 million in the prior year. 35 Table of Contents Gains on loans and investments, net, increased $41 million from the prior year primarily related to the gains on sales of additional FFELP Loans to ED as part of EDs Loan Purchase Commitment Program (the Purchase Program). These gains will not occur in the future as the Purchase Program ended in 2010. Losses on derivatives and hedging activities, net, declined by $243 million in 2010 compared with 2009, primarily due to interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations, which primarily affected the valuations of our Floor Income Contracts, basis swaps and foreign currency hedges during the period. Valuations of derivative instruments vary based upon many factors including changes in interest rates, credit risk, foreign currency fluctuations and other market factors. As a result, net gains and losses on derivatives and hedging activities may vary significantly in future periods. Servicing revenue decreased by $35 million primarily due to HCERA becoming effective as of July 1, 2010, thereby eliminating our ability to earn additional Guarantor issuance fees on new FFELP Loans, as well as to a decline in outstanding FFELP Loans for which we were earning additional fees. Contingency revenue increased $36 million primarily from increased collections on defaulted FFELP Loans. Gains on debt repurchases decreased $219 million year over year while the principal amount of debt repurchased increased to $4.9 billion, as compared with the $3.4 billion repurchased in fiscal year 2009. Debt repurchase activity will fluctuate based on market fundamentals and our liability management strategy. Other income declined by $82 million primarily due to a $71 million decrease in foreign currency translation gains. The foreign currency translation gains relate to a portion of our foreign currency denominated debt that does not receive hedge accounting treatment. These gains were partially offset by the losses on derivative and hedging activities, net line item on the income statement related to the derivatives used to economically hedge these debt instruments. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring related asset impairments of $19 million in 2010, increased $146 million year over year primarily due to an increase in legal contingency expense, costs related to the ED Servicing Contract, higher collection and servicing costs from a higher number of loans in repayment and in delinquent status, and higher marketing and technology enhancement costs related to Private Education Loans. Goodwill and intangible asset impairment and amortization increased $623 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, primarily due to the $660 million of impairment recognized as a result of the passage of HCERA and its negative effects on the anticipated cash flows for certain of our reporting units and the reduced market values of these units. The amortization of acquired intangibles for continuing operations and for discontinued operations each remained relatively unchanged for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For additional discussion regarding the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets see Note 5 Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets. Restructuring expenses increased $69 million in the year ended December 31, 2010, which is a result of a $75 million increase in restructuring expenses in continuing operations partially offset by a $6 million decrease in restructuring expenses attributable to discontinued operations. The following details our ongoing restructuring efforts: On March 30, 2010, President Obama signed into law H.R. 4872, HCERA, which included the SAFRA Act. Effective July 1, 2010, this legislation eliminated FFELP and requires all new federal loans to be made through the DSLP. The new law did not alter or affect the terms and conditions of existing FFELP Loans. We have and will continue to restructure our operations in response to this change in law which has and will continue to result in a significant reduction of operating costs due to the elimination of positions and facilities associated with the origination of FFELP Loans. Restructuring expenses associated with continuing operations under this restructuring plan were $83 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. We expect to incur an estimated $10 million of additional restructuring expenses. 36 Table of Contents In response to the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007 (CCRAA) and challenges in the capital markets, we also initiated a restructuring plan in the fourth quarter of 2007. Under this ongoing plan, restructuring expenses associated with continuing operations of $2 million and $10 million were recognized in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This restructuring plan was essentially completed in the fourth quarter of 2009. Income tax expense from continuing operations increased $229 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared with the prior year. The effective tax rates for fiscal years 2010 and 2009 were 45 percent and 33 percent, respectively. The change in the effective tax rate was primarily driven by the impact of non deductible goodwill impairments recorded in 2010 and state tax rate changes recorded in both periods. Net loss from discontinued operations in the year ended December 31, 2010 was $67 million compared with a net loss from discontinued operations of $220 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we sold our Purchased Paper Mortgage/Properties business for $280 million which resulted in an after tax loss of $95 million. As a result of this sale, the results of operations of this business were presented in discontinued operations in the fourth quarter of 2009. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we began actively marketing our Purchased Paper Non Mortgage business for sale and began presenting its results in discontinued operations. We recorded an after tax loss of $52 million from discontinued operations in the fourth quarter of 2010, primarily due to adjusting the value of this business to its estimated fair value. We sold our Purchased Paper Non Mortgage business in the third quarter of 2011. Our Purchased Paper businesses are presented in discontinued operations for the current and prior periods. The additional losses for both years that are more than the losses discussed above relate to ongoing impairment recorded as a result of the weakened economys effect on our ability to collect the receivables. Core Earnings Definition and Limitations We prepare financial statements in accordance with GAAP. However, we also evaluate our business segments on a basis that differs from GAAP. We refer to this different basis of presentation as Core Earnings. We provide this Core Earnings basis of presentation on a consolidated basis for each business segment because this is what we internally review when making management decisions regarding our performance and how we allocate resources. We also refer to this information in our presentations with credit rating agencies, lenders and investors. Because our Core Earnings basis of presentation corresponds to our segment financial presentations, we are required by GAAP to provide Core Earnings disclosure in the notes to our consolidated financial statements for our business segments. For additional information, see Note 16 Segment Reporting. Core Earnings are not a substitute for reported results under GAAP. We use Core Earnings to manage each business segment because Core Earnings reflect adjustments to GAAP financial results for three items, discussed below, that create significant volatility mostly due to timing factors generally beyond the control of management. Accordingly, we believe that Core Earnings provide management with a useful basis from which to better evaluate results from ongoing operations against the business plan or against results from prior periods. Consequently, we disclose this information as we believe it provides investors with additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely assessed by management. The three items adjusted for in our Core Earnings presentations are (1) our use of derivatives instruments to hedge our economic risks that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment or do qualify for hedge accounting treatment but result in ineffectiveness (2) the accounting for goodwill and acquired intangible assets and (3) the off balance sheet treatment of certain securitization transactions. 37 Table of Contents While GAAP provides a uniform, comprehensive basis of accounting, for the reasons described above, our Core Earnings basis of presentation does not. Core Earnings are subject to certain general and specific limitations that investors should carefully consider. For example, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting. Our Core Earnings are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Accordingly, our Core Earnings presentation does not represent a comprehensive basis of accounting. Investors, therefore, may not be able to compare our performance with that of other financial services companies based upon Core Earnings. Core Earnings results are only meant to supplement GAAP results by providing additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely used by management, our board of directors, rating agencies, lenders and investors to assess performance. Specific adjustments that management makes to GAAP results to derive our Core Earnings basis of presentation are described in detail in the section entitled Core Earnings Definition and Limitations Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP of this Item 7. The following tables show Core Earnings for each business segment and our business as a whole along with the adjustments made to the income/expense items to reconcile the amounts to our reported GAAP results as required by GAAP and reported in Note 16 Segment Reporting. 38 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2011 (Dollars in millions) ConsumerLending BusinessServices FFELPLoans Other Eliminations(1) Total CoreEarnings Adjustments(2) TotalGAAP Interest income: Student loans $ 2,429 $ $ 2,914 $ $ $ 5,343 $ 547 $ 5,890 Other loans 21 21 21 Cash and investments 9 11 5 5 (11 ) 19 19 Total interest income 2,438 11 2,919 26 (11 ) 5,383 547 5,930 Total interest expense 804 1,472 54 (11 ) 2,319 82 2,401 Net interest income 1,634 11 1,447 (28 ) 3,064 465 3,529 Less: provisions for loan losses 1,179 86 30 1,295 1,295 Net interest income afterprovisions for loan losses 455 11 1,361 (58 ) 1,769 465 2,234 Servicing revenue 64 970 85 1 (739 ) 381 381 Contingency revenue 333 333 333 Gains on debt repurchases 64 64 (26 ) 38 Other income (loss) (9 ) 70 1 (9 ) 53 (979 ) (926 ) Total other income (loss) 55 1,373 86 56 (739 ) 831 (1,005 ) (174 ) Expenses: Direct operating expenses 304 482 760 12 (739 ) 819 819 Overhead expenses 281 281 281 Operating expenses 304 482 760 293 (739 ) 1,100 1,100 Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment and amortization 24 24 Restructuring expenses 3 3 1 2 9 9 Total expenses 307 485 761 295 (739 ) 1,109 24 1,133 Income (loss) from continuing operations, before income tax expense (benefit) 203 899 686 (297 ) 1,491 (564 ) 927 Income tax expense (benefit)(3) 75 330 252 (109 ) 548 (220 ) 328 Net income (loss) from continuing operations 128 569 434 (188 ) 943 (344 ) 599 Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes 33 33 33 Net income (loss) 128 569 434 (155 ) 976 (344 ) 632 Less: loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) Net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation $ 128 $ 570 $ 434 $ (155 ) $ $ 977 $ (344 ) $ 633 (1) The eliminations in servicing revenue and direct operating expense represent the elimination of intercompany servicing revenue where the Business Services segment performs the loan servicing function for the FFELP Loans segment. (2) Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP: Year Ended December 31, 2011 (Dollars in millions) Net ImpactofDerivativeAccounting Net Impact ofGoodwill andAcquiredIntangibles Total Net interest income after provisions for loan losses $ 465 $ $ 465 Total other loss (1,005 ) (1,005 ) Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairmentand amortization 24 24 Total Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP $ (540 ) $ (24 ) (564 ) Income tax benefit (220 ) Net loss $ (344 ) (3) Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segment. 39 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 (Dollars in millions) ConsumerLending BusinessServices FFELPLoans Other Eliminations(1) Total CoreEarnings Adjustments(2) TotalGAAP Interest income: Student loans $ 2,353 $ $ 2,766 $ $ $ 5,119 $ 579 $ 5,698 Other loans 30 30 30 Cash and investments 14 17 9 3 (17 ) 26 26 Total interest income 2,367 17 2,775 33 (17 ) 5,175 579 5,754 Total interest expense 758 1,407 45 (17 ) 2,193 82 2,275 Net interest income (loss) 1,609 17 1,368 (12 ) 2,982 497 3,479 Less: provisions for loan losses 1,298 98 23 1,419 1,419 Net interest income (loss) after provisions for loan losses 311 17 1,270 (35 ) 1,563 497 2,060 Servicing revenue 72 912 68 1 (648 ) 405 405 Contingency revenue 330 330 330 Gains on debt repurchases 317 317 317 Other income (loss) 51 320 13 384 (414 ) (30 ) Total other income 72 1,293 388 331 (648 ) 1,436 (414 ) 1,022 Expenses: Direct operating expenses 350 500 736 12 (648 ) 950 950 Overhead expenses 258 258 258 Operating expenses 350 500 736 270 (648 ) 1,208 1,208 Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment and amortization 699 699 Restructuring expenses 12 7 54 12 85 85 Total expenses 362 507 790 282 (648 ) 1,293 699 1,992 Income from continuing operations, before income tax expense 21 803 868 14 1,706 (616 ) 1,090 Income tax expense(3) 8 288 311 4 611 (118 ) 493 Net income from continuing operations 13 515 557 10 1,095 (498 ) 597 Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes (67 ) (67 ) (67 ) Net income (loss) $ 13 $ 515 $ 557 $ (57 ) $ $ 1,028 $ (498 ) $ 530 (1) The eliminations in servicing revenue and direct operating expense represent the elimination of intercompany servicing revenue where the Business Services segment performs the loan servicing function for the FFELP Loans segment. (2) Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP: Year Ended December 31, 2010 (Dollars in millions) Net ImpactofDerivativeAccounting Net Impact ofGoodwill andAcquiredIntangibles Total Net interest income after provisions for loan losses $ 497 $ $ 497 Total other loss (414 ) (414) Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairmentand amortization 699 699 Total Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP $ 83 $ (699 ) (616) Income tax benefit (118) Net loss $ (498) (3) Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segment. 40 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) ConsumerLending BusinessServices FFELPLoans Other Eliminations(1) Total CoreEarnings Adjustments(2) TotalGAAP Interest income: Student loans $ 2,254 $ $ 3,252 $ $ $ 5,506 $ (830 ) $ 4,676 Other loans 56 56 56 Cash and investments 13 20 26 (10 ) (20 ) 29 (3 ) 26 Total interest income 2,267 20 3,278 46 (20 ) 5,591 (833 ) 4,758 Total interest expense 721 2,238 66 (20 ) 3,005 30 3,035 Net interest income (loss) 1,546 20 1,040 (20 ) 2,586 (863 ) 1,723 Less: provisions for loan losses 1,399 119 46 1,564 (445 ) 1,119 Net interest income (loss) after provisions for loan losses 147 20 921 (66 ) 1,022 (418 ) 604 Servicing revenue 70 954 75 (659 ) 440 440 Contingency revenue 294 294 294 Gains on debt repurchases 536 536 536 Other income 55 292 1 348 (285 ) 63 Total other income 70 1,303 367 537 (659 ) 1,618 (285 ) 1,333 Expenses: Direct operating expenses 265 440 754 6 (659 ) 806 806 Overhead expenses 237 237 237 Operating expenses 265 440 754 243 (659 ) 1,043 1,043 Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment and amortization 76 76 Restructuring expenses 2 2 8 (2 ) 10 10 Total expenses 267 442 762 241 (659 ) 1, 053 76 1,129 Income (loss) from continuing operations, before income tax expense (benefit) (50 ) 881 526 230 1,587 (779 ) 808 Income tax expense (benefit)(3) (18 ) 311 186 81 560 (296 ) 264 Net income (loss) from continuing operations (32 ) 570 340 149 1,027 (483 ) 544 Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes (220 ) (220 ) (220 ) Net income (loss) $ (32 ) $ 570 $ 340 $ (71 ) $ $ 807 $ (483 ) $ 324 (1) The eliminations in servicing revenue and direct operating expense represent the elimination of intercompany servicing revenue where the Business Services segment performs the loan servicing function for the FFELP Loans segment. (2) Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP: Year Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) Net Impact ofDerivativeAccounting Net Impact ofGoodwill andAcquiredIntangibles Net Impact ofSecuritizationAccounting Total Net interest income (loss) $ 78 $ $ (941 ) $ (863 ) Less: provisions for loan losses (445 ) (445 ) Net interest income (loss) after provisions for loan losses 78 (496 ) (418 ) Total other income (loss) (580 ) 295 (285 ) Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment and amortization 76 76 Total Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP $ (502 ) $ (76 ) $ (201 ) (779 ) Income tax benefit (296 ) Net loss $ (483 ) (3) Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segment. 41 Table of Contents Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP The three adjustments required to reconcile from our Core Earnings results to our GAAP results of operations relate to differing treatments for: (1) our use of derivatives instruments to hedge our economic risks that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment or do qualify for hedge accounting treatment but result in ineffectiveness (2) the accounting for goodwill and acquired intangible assets and (3) the off balance sheet treatment of certain securitization transactions. The following table reflects aggregate adjustments associated with these areas. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP: Net impact of derivative accounting $ (540 ) $ 83 $ (502 ) Net impact of goodwill and acquired intangibles (24 ) (699 ) (76 ) Net impact of securitization accounting (201 ) Net income tax effect 220 118 296 Total Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP $ (344 ) $ (498 ) $ (483 ) 1) Derivative Accounting: Core Earnings exclude periodic unrealized gains and losses that are caused primarily by the mark to market valuations on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under GAAP. To a lesser extent, these periodic unrealized gains and losses are also a result of ineffectiveness recognized related to effective hedges. These unrealized gains and losses occur in our Consumer Lending, FFELP Loans and Other business segments. Under GAAP, for our derivatives that are held to maturity, the cumulative net unrealized gain or loss over the life of the contract will equal $0 except for Floor Income Contracts where the cumulative unrealized gain will equal the amount for which we sold the contract. In our Core Earnings presentation, we recognize the economic effect of these hedges, which generally results in any net settlement cash paid or received being recognized ratably as an interest expense or revenue over the hedged items life. The accounting for derivatives requires that changes in the fair value of derivative instruments be recognized currently in earnings, with no fair value adjustment of the hedged item, unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. We believe that our derivatives are effective economic hedges, and as such, are a critical element of our interest rate and foreign currency risk management strategy. However, some of our derivatives, primarily Floor Income Contracts and certain basis swaps, do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and the stand alone derivative must be marked to market in the income statement with no consideration for the corresponding change in fair value of the hedged item. These gains and losses recorded in Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net are primarily caused by interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate volatility and changing credit spreads during the period as well as the volume and term of derivatives not receiving hedge accounting treatment. Our Floor Income Contracts are written options that must meet more stringent requirements than other hedging relationships to achieve hedge effectiveness. Specifically, our Floor Income Contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment because the pay down of principal of the student loans underlying the Floor Income embedded in those student loans does not exactly match the change in the notional amount of our written Floor Income Contracts. Additionally, the term and the interest rate index of the Floor Income Contract is different than that of the student loans. Under derivatives accounting treatment, the upfront payment is deemed a liability and changes in fair value are recorded through income throughout the life of the contract. The change in the value of Floor Income Contracts is primarily caused by changing interest rates that cause the amount of Floor Income earned on the underlying student loans and paid to the counterparties to vary. This is economically offset by the change in value of the student loan portfolio earning Floor Income but that offsetting change in value is not recognized. We believe the Floor Income Contracts are economic hedges because they effectively fix the amount of Floor Income earned over the contract period, thus eliminating the timing and uncertainty that changes 42 Table of Contents in interest rates can have on Floor Income for that period. Therefore, for purposes of Core Earnings, we have removed the unrealized gains and losses related to these contracts and added back the amortization of the net premiums received on the Floor Income Contracts. The amortization of the net premiums received on the Floor Income Contracts for Core Earnings is reflected in student loan interest income. Under GAAP accounting, the premium received on the Floor Income Contracts is recorded as revenue in the gains (losses) on derivatives and hedging activities, net line item by the end of the contracts life. Basis swaps are used to convert floating rate debt from one floating interest rate index to another to better match the interest rate characteristics of the assets financed by that debt. We primarily use basis swaps to hedge our student loan assets that are primarily indexed to a commercial paper, Prime or Treasury bill index. In addition, we use basis swaps to convert debt indexed to the Consumer Price Index to three month LIBOR debt. The accounting for derivatives requires that when using basis swaps, the change in the cash flows of the hedge effectively offset both the change in the cash flows of the asset and the change in the cash flows of the liability. Our basis swaps hedge variable interest rate risk; however, they generally do not meet this effectiveness test because the index of the swap does not exactly match the index of the hedged assets as required for hedge accounting treatment. Additionally, some of our FFELP Loans can earn at either a variable or a fixed interest rate depending on market interest rates and therefore swaps economically hedging these FFELP Loans do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting treatment. As a result, under GAAP, these swaps are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value reflected currently in the income statement. The table below quantifies the adjustments for derivative accounting on our net income. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Core Earnings derivative adjustments: Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net, included in other income(1) $ (959 ) $ (361 ) $ (604 ) Plus: Realized losses on derivative and hedging activities, net(1) 806 815 322 Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net (153 ) 454 (282 ) Amortization of net premiums on Floor Income Contracts in net interest income for Core Earnings (355 ) (317 ) (197 ) Other pre change in derivatives accounting adjustments (32 ) (54 ) (23 ) Total net impact derivative accounting(2) $ (540 ) $ 83 $ (502 ) (1) See Reclassification of Realized Gains (Losses) on Derivative and Hedging Activities below for a detailed breakdown of the components of realized losses on derivative and hedging activities. (2) Negative amounts are subtracted from Core Earnings to arrive at GAAP net income and positive amounts are added to Core Earnings to arrive at GAAP net income. 43 Table of Contents Reclassification of Realized Gains (Losses) on Derivative and Hedging Activities Derivative accounting requires net settlement income/expense on derivatives and realized gains/losses related to derivative dispositions (collectively referred to as realized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities) that do not qualify as hedges to be recorded in a separate income statement line item below net interest income. Under our Core Earnings presentation, these gains and losses are reclassified to the income statement line item of the economically hedged item. For our Core Earnings net interest margin, this would primarily include: (a) reclassifying the net settlement amounts related to our Floor Income Contracts to student loan interest income and (b) reclassifying the net settlement amounts related to certain of our basis swaps to debt interest expense. The table below summarizes the realized losses on derivative and hedging activities and the associated reclassification on a Core Earnings basis. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Reclassification of realized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities: Net settlement expense on Floor Income Contracts reclassified to net interest income $ (902 ) $ (888 ) $ (717 ) Net settlement income (expense) on interest rate swaps reclassified to net interest income 71 69 412 Foreign exchange derivatives gains/(losses) reclassified to other income (15 ) Net realized gains (losses) on terminated derivative contracts reclassified to other income 25 4 (2 ) Total reclassifications of realized (gains) losses on derivative and hedging activities (806 ) (815 ) (322 ) Add: Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net(1) (153 ) 454 (282 ) Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net $ (959 ) $ (361 ) $ (604 ) (1) Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net comprises the following unrealized mark to market gains (losses): Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Floor Income Contracts $ (267 ) $ 156 $ 483 Basis swaps 104 341 (413 ) Foreign currency hedges (32 ) (83 ) (255 ) Other 42 40 (97 ) Total unrealized gains (losses) on derivative andhedging activities, net $(153) $454 $(282) 44 Table of Contents Cumulative Impact of Derivative Accounting under GAAP compared to Core Earnings As of December 31, 2011, derivative accounting has reduced GAAP equity by approximately $1.0 billion as a result of approximately $1.0 billion (after tax) of cumulative net unrealized net losses recognized for GAAP, but not in Core Earnings. The following table rolls forward the cumulative impact to GAAP equity due to these unrealized net losses related to derivative accounting. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Beginning impact of derivative accounting on GAAP equity $ (676 ) $ (737 ) $ (452 ) Net impact of net unrealized gains/(losses) under derivative accounting (301 ) 61 (285 ) Ending impact of derivative accounting on GAAP equity $ (977 ) $ (676 ) $ (737 ) In addition, net Floor premiums received on Floor Income Contracts that have not been amortized into Core Earnings as of the respective year ends are presented in the table below. These net premiums will be recognized in Core Earnings in future periods and are presented below net of tax. As of December 31, 2011, the remaining amortization term of the net floor premiums was approximately 4.5 years. (Dollars in millions) December 31,2011 December 31,2010 December 31,2009 Unamortized net Floor premiums (net of tax) $ (772 ) $ (363 ) $ (421 ) 2) Goodwill and Acquired Intangibles: Our Core Earnings exclude goodwill and intangible impairment and the amortization of acquired intangibles. The following table summarizes the goodwill and acquired intangible adjustments. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Core Earnings goodwill and acquired intangibles adjustments: Goodwill and intangible impairment of acquired intangibles from continuing operations $ $ (660 ) $ (36 ) Goodwill and intangible impairment of acquired intangibles from discontinued operations, net of tax (1 ) Amortization of acquired intangibles from continuing operations (24 ) (39 ) (38 ) Amortization of acquired intangibles from discontinued operations, net of tax (1 ) Total Core Earnings goodwill and acquired intangibles adjustments(1) $ (24 ) $ (699 ) $ (76 ) (1) Negative amounts are subtracted from Core Earnings to arrive at GAAP net income and positive amounts are added to Core Earnings to arrive at GAAP net income. 45 Table of Contents 3) Securitization Accounting: On January 1, 2010, we adopted the new consolidation accounting guidance which consolidated our off balance sheet securitization trusts. As a result, from 2010 forward, there is no longer a difference between our GAAP and Core Earnings presentation for securitization accounting. (See Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies for further detail). Prior to the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, certain securitization transactions in our FFELP Loans and Consumer Lending business segments were accounted for as sales of assets. Under Core Earnings for the FFELP Loans and Consumer Lending business segments, we present all securitization transactions as long term non recourse financings. The upfront gains on sale from securitization transactions, as well as ongoing securitization servicing and Residual Interest revenue (loss) presented in accordance with GAAP, were excluded from Core Earnings and were replaced by interest income, provisions for loan losses, and interest expense as earned or incurred on the securitization loans. The additional net interest margin included in Core Earnings contained any related fees or costs such as Consolidation Loan Rebate Fees, premium and discount amortization as well as any Repayment Borrower Benefit yield adjustments. We also excluded transactions with our off balance sheet trusts from Core Earnings as they were considered intercompany transactions on a Core Earnings basis. While we believe that our Core Earnings presentation presents the economic substance of results from our loan portfolios, when compared to GAAP results, it understates earnings volatility from securitization gains, securitization servicing income and Residual Interest income. The following table summarizes Core Earnings securitization adjustments for the Consumer Lending and FFELP Loans business segments for the year ended December 31, 2009. Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2009 Core Earnings securitization adjustments: Net interest income on securitized loans, before provisions for loan losses and before intercompany transactions $ (942 ) Provisions for loan losses 445 Net interest income on securitized loans, after provisions for loan losses, before intercompany transactions (497 ) Intercompany transactions with off balance sheet trusts 1 Net interest income on securitized loans, after provisions for loan losses (496 ) Securitization servicing and Residual Interest revenue 295 Total Core Earnings securitization adjustments(1) $ (201 ) (1) Negative amounts are subtracted from Core Earnings to arrive at GAAP net income and positive amounts are added to Core Earnings to arrive at GAAP net income. 46 Table of Contents Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis Consumer Lending Segment The following table includes Core Earnings results for our Consumer Lending segment. Years Ended December 31, % Increase (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Core Earnings interest income: Private Education Loans $ 2,429 $ 2,353 $ 2,254 3 % 4 % Cash and investments 9 14 13 (36 ) 8 Total Core Earnings interest income 2,438 2,367 2,267 3 4 Total Core Earnings interest expense 804 758 721 6 5 Net Core Earnings interest income 1,634 1,609 1,546 2 4 Less: provisions for loan losses 1,179 1,298 1,399 (9 ) (7 ) Net Core Earnings interest income after provisions for loan losses 455 311 147 46 112 Servicing revenue 64 72 70 (11 ) 3 Other income (loss) (9 ) (100 ) Total income 55 72 70 (24 ) 3 Direct operating expenses 304 350 265 (13 ) 32 Restructuring expenses 3 12 2 (75 ) 500 Total expenses 307 362 267 (15 ) 36 Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) 203 21 (50 ) 867 142 Income tax expense (benefit) 75 8 (18 ) 838 144 Core Earnings (loss) $ 128 $ 13 $ (32 ) 885 % (141 )% Core Earnings were $128 million in 2011, compared with Core Earnings of $13 million in 2010. This increase was primarily the result of lower provision for loan losses and operating expenses. Highlights compared to 2010 included: Loan originations increased to $2.7 billion, up 19 percent from $2.3 billion. The portfolio, net of loan loss allowance, totaled $36.3 billion at December 31, 2011, compared with $35.7 billion at December 31, 2010. Net interest margin, before loan loss provision, improved to 4.1 percent, up from 3.9 percent. Delinquencies of 90 days or more (as a percentage of loans in repayment) improved to 4.9 percent, compared with 5.3 percent. The annual charge off rate (as a percentage of loans in repayment) improved to 3.7 percent, compared with 5.0 percent. 47 Table of Contents Consumer Lending Net Interest Margin The following table shows the Consumer Lending Core Earnings net interest margin along with reconciliation to the GAAP basis Consumer Lending net interest margin before provision for loan losses. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Core Earnings basis Private Education student loan yield 6.34 % 6.15 % 5.99 % Discount amortization .23 .29 .26 Core Earnings basis Private Education Loan net yield 6.57 6.44 6.25 Core Earnings basis Private Education Loan cost of funds (1.99 ) (1.79 ) (1.78 ) Core Earnings basis Private Education Loan spread 4.58 4.65 4.47 Core Earnings basis other asset spread impact (.49 ) (.80 ) (.62 ) Core Earnings basis Consumer Lending net interest margin(1) 4.09 % 3.85 % 3.85 % Core Earnings basis Consumer Lending net interest margin(1) 4.09 % 3.85 % 3.85 % Adjustment for GAAP accounting treatment (.08 ) .02 (.16 ) GAAP basis Consumer Lending net interest margin(1) 4.01 % 3.87 % 3.69 % (1) The average balances of our Consumer Lending Core Earnings basis interest earning assets for the respective periods are: (Dollars in millions) Private Education Loans $ 36,955 $ 36,534 $ 36,046 Other interest earning assets 3,015 5,204 4,072 Total Consumer Lending Core Earnings basis interest earning assets $ 39,970 $ 41,738 $ 40,118 The increase in the Core Earnings basis Consumer Lending net interest margin for 2011 over the prior year was primarily due to the decline in the average balance of our other asset portfolio. The size of the other asset portfolio, which is primarily securitization trust restricted cash and cash held at the Bank, has decreased significantly. This other asset portfolio earns a negative yield and as a result, when its relative weighting decreases compared to the Private Education Loan portfolio, the overall net interest margin increases. Private Education Loans Provision for Loan Losses and Charge Offs The following table summarizes the total Private Education Loans provisions for loan losses and charge offs on both a GAAP basis and a Core Earnings basis. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011(1) 2010 2009 Private Education Loan provision for loan losses, GAAP $ 1,179 $ 1,298 $ 967 Private Education Loan provision for loan losses, Core Earnings basis $ 1,179 $ 1,298 $ 1,399 Private Education Loan charge offs, GAAP $ 1,072 $ 1,291 $ 876 Private Education Loan charge offs, Core Earnings basis $ 1,072 $ 1,291 $ 1,299 (1) We recorded an additional $124 million of provision for Private Education Loan losses in the third quarter of 2011 in connection with adopting new accounting rules related to troubled debt restructurings (TDRs). For a complete discussion of the effect of these new rules on our provision for Private Education Loan losses, see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Allowance for Loan Losses. 48 Table of Contents In establishing the allowance for Private Education Loan losses as of December 31, 2011, we considered several factors with respect to our Private Education Loan portfolio. In particular, we continue to see improving credit quality and continuing positive delinquency and charge off trends in connection with this portfolio. Improving credit quality is seen in higher FICO scores and cosigner rates, as well as a more seasoned portfolio compared with the previous year. The delinquency rate has declined to 10.1 percent from 10.6 percent and the charge off rate has declined to 3.7 percent from 5.0 percent compared with the previous year. Apart from these overall improvements in credit quality, delinquency and charge off trends, Private Education Loans which defaulted between 2008 and 2011 for which we have previously charged off estimated losses have, to varying degrees, not met our post default recovery expectations to date and may continue not to do so. We have been charging off these periodic shortfalls in expected recoveries against our allowance for Private Education Loan losses and the related receivable for partially charged off Private Education Loans and we will continue to do so. Differences in actual future recoveries on these defaulted loans could affect our receivable for partially charged off Private Education Loans. In the third quarter of 2011, we increased our provision for Private Education Loan losses for the quarter in the amount of $143 million to reflect these uncertainties. Continuing historically high unemployment rates may negatively affect future Private Education Loan default and recovery expectations over our estimated two year loss confirmation period. Consequently, we have also given consideration to these factors in projecting charge offs for this period and establishing our allowance for Private Education Loan losses. We will continue to monitor defaults and recoveries in light of the continuing weak economy and high unemployment rates. For a more detailed discussion of our policy for determining the collectability of Private Education Loan and maintaining our allowance for Private Education Loan losses, see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Allowance for Loan Losses. Servicing Revenue and Other Income Consumer Lending Segment Servicing revenue for our Consumer Lending segment primarily includes late fees and forbearance fees. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, servicing revenue for our Consumer Lending segment totaled $64 million, $72 million and $70 million, respectively. Included in other income for the year ended December 31, 2011 was a $9 million mark to market loss related to classifying our entire $12 million portfolio of non U.S. dollar denominated student loans as held for sale. Operating Expenses Consumer Lending Segment Operating expenses for our Consumer Lending segment include costs incurred to originate Private Education Loans and to service and collect on our Private Education Loan portfolio. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, operating expenses for our Consumer Lending segment totaled $304 million, $350 million and $265 million, respectively. 2011 versus 2010 The decrease in operating expenses in the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with the year ago period was primarily the result of our cost cutting initiatives. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring related asset impairments, were 82 basis points and 96 basis points of average Private Education Loans in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 2010 versus 2009 Operating expenses increased $85 million from 2009, primarily as the result of a non recurring $11 million benefit in 2009 related to reversing a contingency reserve, an increase in collection and servicing costs from a higher number of loans in repayment and delinquency status and higher marketing and technology enhancement costs related to Private Education Loans in 2010. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring related asset impairments, were 96 basis points and 74 basis points, respectively, of average Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. 49 Table of Contents Business Services Segment The following tables include Core Earnings results for our Business Services segment. Years Ended December 31, % Increase (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Net interest income after provision $ 11 $ 17 $ 20 (35 )% (15 )% Servicing revenue: Intercompany loan servicing 739 648 659 14 (2 ) Third party loan servicing 82 77 53 6 45 Guarantor servicing 52 93 152 (44 ) (39 ) Other servicing 97 94 90 3 4 Total servicing revenue 970 912 954 6 (4 ) Contingency revenue 333 330 294 1 12 Other Business Services revenue 70 51 55 37 (7 ) Total other income 1,373 1,293 1,303 6 (1 ) Direct operating expenses 482 500 440 (4 ) 14 Restructuring expenses 3 7 2 (57 ) 250 Total expenses 485 507 442 (4 ) 15 Income from continuing operations, before income tax expense 899 803 881 12 (9 ) Income tax expense 330 288 311 15 (7 ) Core Earnings 569 515 570 10 (10 ) Less: net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (1 ) (100 ) Core Earnings attributable to SLM Corporation $ 570 $ 515 $ 570 11 % (10 )% Core Earnings were $570 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $515 million in the year ago period. The improvement was primarily driven by the acquisition of existing FFELP Loans from other lenders, including $25 billion acquired in the fourth quarter of 2010. Our Business Services segment earns intercompany loan servicing fees from servicing the FFELP Loans in our FFELP Loans segment. The average balance of this portfolio was $141 billion, $128 billion and $135 billion for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in intercompany loan servicing revenue from the year ago periods is primarily the result of the acquisition of an existing $25 billion FFELP Loan portfolio on December 31, 2010 partially offset by amortization of the underlying portfolio and FFELP Loans sold to ED as part of EDs Purchase Program in 2010. We are servicing approximately 3.6 million accounts under the ED Servicing Contract as of December 31, 2011. Third party loan servicing fees in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 included $63 million and $44 million, respectively, of servicing revenue related to the ED Servicing Contract. Our allocation of loans awarded for servicing under the ED contract increased from 22 percent to 26 percent for the contract year ending August 2012. The increase was driven primarily by our top ranking for default prevention performance results. The decrease in Guarantor servicing revenue compared with the year ago periods was primarily due to the elimination of FFELP in 2010, thereby eliminating any new Guarantor issuance fees we could earn. Outstanding FFELP Loans on which we earn additional fees also declined. Other servicing revenue includes account asset servicing revenue and Campus Solutions revenue. Account asset servicing revenue represents fees earned on program management, transfer and servicing agent services and 50 Table of Contents administration services for our various 529 college savings plans. Assets under administration in our 529 college savings plans totaled $37.5 billion as of December 31, 2011, a 9 percent increase from 2010. Campus Solutions revenue is earned from our Campus Solutions business whose services include comprehensive transaction processing solutions and associated technology that we provide to college financial aid offices and students to streamline the financial aid process. The following table presents the outstanding inventory of contingent collections receivables that our Business Services segment will collect on behalf of others. We expect the inventory of contingent collections receivables to decline over time as a result of the elimination of FFELP. December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Contingency: Student loans $ 11,553 $ 10,362 $ 8,762 Other 2,017 1,730 1,262 Total $ 13,570 $ 12,092 $ 10,024 Other Business Services revenue is primarily transaction fees that are earned in conjunction with our rewards program from participating companies based on member purchase activity, either online or in stores, depending on the contractual arrangement with the participating company. Typically, a percentage of the purchase price of the consumer members eligible purchases with participating companies is set aside in an account maintained by us on behalf of our members. In fourth quarter 2011, we terminated our credit card affiliation program with a third party bank and concurrently entered into an affiliation program with a new bank. In terminating the old program we recognized a $25 million gain which primarily represented prior cash advances we received that were previously recorded as deferred revenue. Revenues related to services performed on FFELP Loans accounted for 76 percent, 78 percent and 79 percent of total segment revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011, we launched Sallie Mae Insurance Services, which offers directly to college students and higher education institutions tuition, renters and student health insurance. We also include a Tuition Insurance Benefit with our Smart Option Student Loan. On September 1, 2011, we acquired SC Services & Associates, Inc., a provider of collections services to local governments and courts. This acquisition enhances and complements our other contingency collection businesses. Operating Expenses Business Services Segment For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, operating expenses for the Business Services segment totaled $482 million, $500 million and $440 million, respectively. 2011 versus 2010 Operating expenses for 2011 decreased from 2010, primarily as a result of our cost cutting initiatives. Included in operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011 is approximately $33 million in third party servicing costs associated with our acquisition of $25 billion of existing FFELP Loans at the end of 2010. During third quarter 2011, we began transitioning these loans to our own servicing platform and completed the transfer in October 2011. With the portfolio fully transitioned, the servicing costs associated with these loans will be significantly less in 2012. 51 Table of Contents 2010 versus 2009 Operating expenses increased $60 million from 2009 to 2010 primarily due to higher technology and other expenses related to preparation for higher volumes for the ED Servicing Contract as well as an increase in legal contingency expenses. FFELP Loans Segment The following table includes Core Earnings results for our FFELP Loans segment. Years Ended December 31, % Increase (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Core Earnings interest income: FFELP Loans $ 2,914 $ 2,766 $ 3,252 5 % (15 )% Cash and investments 5 9 26 (44 ) (65 ) Total Core Earnings interest income 2,919 2,775 3,278 5 (15 ) Total Core Earnings interest expense 1,472 1,407 2,238 5 (37 ) Net Core Earnings interest income 1,447 1,368 1,040 6 32 Less: provisions for loan losses 86 98 119 (12 ) (18 ) Net Core Earnings interest income after provisions for loan losses 1,361 1,270 921 7 38 Servicing revenue 85 68 75 25 (9 ) Other income 1 320 292 (100 ) 10 Total other income 86 388 367 (78 ) 6 Direct operating expenses 760 736 754 3 (2 ) Restructuring expenses 1 54 8 (98 ) 575 Total expenses 761 790 762 (4 ) 4 Income from continuing operations, before income tax expense 686 868 526 (21 ) 65 Income tax expense 252 311 186 (19 ) 67 Core Earnings $ 434 $ 557 $ 340 (22 )% 64 % Core Earnings from the FFELP Loans segment were $434 million in fiscal year 2011, compared with $557 million in the year ago period. The prior year had a $321 million gain from the sale of loans. Key financial measures include: Net interest margin of .98 percent in the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with .93 percent in the year ago period. The provision for loan losses of $86 million in the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased from $98 million in the year ago period. 52 Table of Contents FFELP Loans Net Interest Margin The following table shows the FFELP Loans Core Earnings net interest margin along with reconciliation to the GAAP basis FFELP Loans net interest margin. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Core Earnings basis FFELP student loan yield 2.59 % 2.57 % 2.68 % Hedged Floor Income .25 .23 .14 Unhedged Floor Income .12 .02 .22 Consolidation Loan Rebate Fees (.65 ) (.59 ) (.59 ) Repayment Borrower Benefits (.12 ) (.10 ) (.11 ) Premium amortization (.15 ) (.18 ) (.17 ) Core Earnings basis FFELP student loan net yield 2.04 1.95 2.17 Core Earnings basis FFELP student loan cost of funds (.98 ) (.93 ) (1.44 ) Core Earnings basis FFELP student loan spread 1.06 1.02 .73 Core Earnings basis FFELP other asset spread impact (.08 ) (.09 ) (.06 ) Core Earnings basis FFELP Loans net interest margin(1) .98 % .93 % .67 % Core Earnings basis FFELP Loans net interest margin(1) .98 % .93 % .67 % Adjustment for GAAP accounting treatment .34 .33 (.08 ) GAAP basis FFELP Loans net interest margin 1.32 % 1.26 % .59 % (1) The average balances of our FFELP Core Earnings basis interest earning assets for the respective periods are: (Dollars in millions) FFELP Loans $ 143,109 $ 142,043 $ 150,059 Other interest earning assets 5,194 5,562 5,126 Total FFELP Core Earnings basis interest earning assets $ 148,303 $ 147,605 $ 155,185 The increase in the Core Earnings basis FFELP Loans net interest margin of 5 basis points for 2011 compared with 2010 was primarily the result of an increase in Floor Income due to lower interest rates. The Core Earnings basis FFELP Loans net interest margin for 2010 increased by 26 basis points from 2009. This was primarily the result of a significant reduction in the cost of our ABCP Facility, a 24 basis point improvement in the CP/LIBOR Spread and a significantly higher margin on the loans within the EDs Loan Participation Purchase Program (the Participation Program) facility compared with the prior year. As of December 31, 2011, our FFELP Loan portfolio totaled approximately $138.1 billion, comprised of $50.4 billion of FFELP Stafford and $87.7 billion of FFELP Consolidation Loans. The weighted average life of these portfolios is 5.0 years and 9.2 years, respectively, assuming a Constant Prepayment Rate (CPR) of 5 percent and 3 percent, respectively. On December 23, 2011, the President signed the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012 into law. This law includes changes that permit FFELP lenders or beneficial holders to change the index on which the Special Allowance Payments (SAP) are calculated for FFELP Loans first disbursed on or after January 1, 2000. The law allows holders to elect to move the index from the Commercial Paper (CP) Rate to the one month LIBOR rate. Such elections must be made by April 1, 2012. As of December 31, 2011, we had $130 billion of loans where we intend to elect the change. This change will help us to better match lender payments with our financing costs. We currently expect the new formula to be developed and available for use in the second quarter of 2012. 53 Table of Contents During the fourth quarter 2011, the Administration announced a Special Direct Consolidation Loan Initiative. The initiative provides an incentive to borrowers who have at least one student loan owned by the Department of Education and at least one held by a FFELP lender to consolidate the FFELP lenders loans into the Direct Loan program by providing a 0.25 percentage point interest rate reduction on the FFELP loans that are eligible for consolidation. The program is available from January 17, 2012 through June 30, 2012. We currently do not foresee the initiative having a significant impact on our FFELP segment. On December 31, 2010, we closed on our agreement to purchase an interest in $26.1 billion of securitized federal student loans and related assets from the Student Loan Corporation (SLC), a subsidiary of Citibank, N.A. The purchase price was approximately $1.1 billion and included the residual interest in 13 of SLCs 14 FFELP loan securitizations and its interest in SLC Funding Note Issuer. We service these assets and administer the securitization trusts. Because we have determined that we are the primary beneficiary of these trusts we have consolidated these trusts onto our balance sheet. Floor Income The following table analyzes the ability of the FFELP Loans in our portfolio to earn Floor Income after December 31, 2011 and 2010, based on interest rates as of those dates. December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 (Dollars in billions) FixedBorrowerRate VariableBorrowerRate Total FixedBorrowerRate VariableBorrowerRate Total Student loans eligible to earn Floor Income $ 118.3 $ 17.7 $ 136.0 $ 124.5 $ 21.0 $ 145.5 Less: post March 31, 2006 disbursed loans required to rebate Floor Income (62.7 ) (1.2 ) (63.9 ) (66.1 ) (1.3 ) (67.4 ) Less: economically hedged Floor Income Contracts (41.5 ) (41.5 ) (39.2 ) (39.2 ) Student loans eligible to earn Floor Income $ 14.1 $ 16.5 $ 30.6 $ 19.2 $ 19.7 $ 38.9 Student loans earning Floor Income $ 14.1 $ 2.3 $ 16.4 $ 19.2 $ 1.3 $ 20.5 We have sold the above referenced Floor Income contracts to economically hedge the potential Floor Income from specifically identified pools of FFELP Consolidation Loans that are eligible to earn Floor Income. The following table presents a projection of the average balance of FFELP Consolidation Loans for which Fixed Rate Floor Income has been economically hedged through the sale of Floor Income Contracts for the period January 1, 2012 to June 30, 2016. The Floor Income Contracts related to these loans do not qualify as effective hedges under GAAP accounting. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in billions) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Average balance of FFELP Consolidation Loans whose Floor Income is economically hedged $ 38.3 $ 32.6 $ 28.3 $ 27.2 $ 10.4 54 Table of Contents FFELP Loans Provision for Loan Losses and Charge Offs The following table summarizes the total FFELP Loan provision for loan losses and charge offs on both a GAAP basis and a Core Earnings basis. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 FFELP Loan provision for loan losses, GAAP $ 86 $ 98 $ 106 FFELP Loan provision for loan losses, Core Earnings basis $ 86 $ 98 $ 119 FFELP Loan charge offs, GAAP $ 78 $ 87 $ 79 FFELP Loan charge offs, Core Earnings basis $ 78 $ 87 $ 94 Servicing Revenue and Other Income FFELP Loans Segment The following table summarizes the components of Core Earnings other income for our FFELP Loans segment. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Servicing revenue $ 85 $ 68 $ 75 Gains on loans and investments, net 325 284 Other 1 (5 ) 8 Total other income, net $ 86 $ 388 $ 367 Servicing revenue for our FFELP Loans segment primarily consists of borrower late fees. The gains on loans and investments in 2010 and 2009 related primarily to the sale of $20.4 billion and $18.5 billion loans, respectively, of FFELP Loans to ED as part of the ED Purchase Program. Operating Expenses FFELP Loans Segment Operating expenses for our FFELP Loans segment primarily include the contractual rates we pay to service loans in term asset backed securitization trusts or a similar rate if a loan is not in a term financing facility (which is presented as an intercompany charge from the Business Services segment who services the loans), the fees we pay for third party loan servicing and costs incurred to acquire loans. The intercompany revenue charged from the Business Services segment and included in those amounts was $739 million, $648 million and $659 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These amounts exceed the actual cost of servicing the loans. 2011 versus 2010 The increase in operating expenses from the prior year was primarily the result of the increase in servicing costs related to the $25 billion loan portfolio acquisition on December 31, 2010. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring related asset impairments, were 53 basis points and 51 basis points of average FFELP Loans in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 2010 versus 2009 Operating expenses decreased $18 million from the prior year, primarily due to the effect of our cost cutting initiative in connection with the passage of HCERA. This was partially offset by a one time fee paid to acquire 55 Table of Contents the SLC portfolio, an increase in legal contingency expenses and costs related to closing and selling two loan originations centers in 2010. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring related asset impairments, were 51 basis points and 50 basis points of average Core Earnings basis FFELP Loans in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Other Segment The Other segment primarily consists of the financial results related to the repurchase of debt, the corporate liquidity portfolio and all overhead. We also include results from smaller wind down and discontinued operations within this segment. These are the Purchased Paper businesses and mortgage and other loan businesses. The Other segment includes our remaining businesses that do not pertain directly to the primary segments identified above. Overhead expenses include costs related to executive management, the board of directors, accounting, finance, legal, human resources, stock based compensation expense and certain information technology costs related to infrastructure and operations. The following table includes Core Earnings results for our Other segment. Years EndedDecember 31, % Increase (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Net interest loss after provision $ (58 ) $ (35 ) $ (66 ) 66 % (47 )% Gains on debt repurchases 64 317 536 (80 ) (41 ) Other (8 ) 14 1 (157 ) 1,300 Total income 56 331 537 (83 ) (38 ) Direct operating expenses 13 12 6 8 100 Overhead expenses: Corporate overhead 163 128 138 27 (7 ) Unallocated information technology costs 117 130 99 (10 ) 31 Total overhead expenses 280 258 237 9 9 Total operating expenses 293 270 243 9 11 Restructuring expenses 2 12 (2 ) (83 ) 700 Total expenses 295 282 241 5 17 Income (loss) from continuing operations, before income tax expense (benefit) (297 ) 14 230 (2,221 ) (94 ) Income tax expense (benefit) (109 ) 4 81 (2,825 ) (95 ) Net income (loss) from continuing operations (188 ) 10 149 (1,980 ) (93 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 33 (67 ) (220 ) 149 (70 ) Core Earnings net loss $ (155 ) $ (57 ) $ (71 ) 172 % (20 )% Purchased Paper Business Our Purchased Paper businesses are presented as discontinued operations for the current and prior periods (see Consolidated Earnings Summary GAAP basis for a further discussion). We sold our Purchased Paper Non Mortgage business, resulting in a $23 million after tax gain, in the third quarter of 2011. Gains on Debt Repurchases We began repurchasing our outstanding debt in the second quarter of 2008. We repurchased $894 million, $4.9 billion and $3.4 billion face amount of our senior unsecured notes in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Since the second quarter of 2008, we repurchased $11.1 billion face amount of our senior unsecured notes in the aggregate, with maturity dates ranging from 2008 to 2016. 56 Table of Contents Other Income 2011 had $26 million of impairment recorded related to our investments in leveraged leases. The impairment was primarily related to American Airlines filing for bankruptcy in the fourth quarter of 2011. As a result of their bankruptcy filing we fully impaired our related leveraged lease investments. We also have $13 million in operating leases at December 31, 2011 with American Airlines which we have determined are not impaired. As of December 31, 2011, our total remaining investment in airline leases is $40 million. Overhead Corporate overhead is comprised of costs related to executive management, the board of directors, accounting, finance, legal, human resources and stock based compensation expense. Unallocated information technology costs are related to infrastructure and operations. 2011 versus 2010 The increase in overhead from 2010 to 2011 was primarily the result of a change in the terms of our stock based compensation plans, additional expense related to the termination of our defined benefit pension plan, and restructuring related consulting expenses incurred in the first half of 2011. In the first quarter of 2011, we changed our stock based compensation plans so that retirement eligible employees would not forfeit unvested stock based compensation upon their retirement. This change had the effect of accelerating the future stock based compensation expenses associated with these unvested stock grants into the current period for those retirement eligible employees. We also recognized $16 million of additional expense in 2011 related to the termination of our defined benefit pension plan due to changes in estimates related to the employee termination benefits as well as changes in interest rates. 2010 versus 2009 Operating expenses increased $27 million from 2009 to 2010. This increase in corporate overhead was primarily attributable to increased technology costs associated with disaster recovery modernization, enterprise architecture and information security upgrades. Financial Condition This section provides additional information regarding the changes related to our loan portfolio assets and related liabilities as well as credit performance indicators related to our loan portfolio. Many of these disclosures will show both GAAP basis as well as Core Earnings basis disclosures. Because certain trusts were not consolidated prior to the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, these trusts were treated as off balance sheet for GAAP purposes but we considered them on balance sheet for Core Earnings purposes. Subsequent to the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, this difference no longer exists because all of our trusts are treated as on balance sheet for GAAP purposes. Below and elsewhere in the document, Core Earnings basis disclosures include all historically (pre January 1, 2010) off balance sheet trusts as though they were on balance sheet. We believe that providing Core Earnings basis disclosures is meaningful because when we evaluate the performance and risk characteristics of the Company we have always considered the effect of any off balance sheet trusts as though they were on balance sheet. 57 Table of Contents Average Balance Sheets GAAP The following table reflects the rates earned on interest earning assets and paid on interest bearing liabilities and reflects our net interest margin on a consolidated basis. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance Rate Balance Rate Balance Rate Average Assets FFELP Loans $ 143,109 2.42 % $ 142,043 2.36 % $ 128,538 2.41 % Private Education Loans 36,955 6.57 36,534 6.44 23,154 6.83 Other loans 233 9.16 323 9.20 561 9.98 Cash and investments 10,636 .18 12,729 .20 11,046 .24 Total interest earning assets 190,933 3.11 % 191,629 3.00 % 163,299 2.91 % Non interest earning assets 5,308 5,931 8,693 Total assets $ 196,241 $ 197,560 $ 171,992 Average Liabilities and Equity Short term borrowings $ 31,413 .89 % $ 38,634 .86 % $ 44,485 1.84 % Long term borrowings 156,151 1.36 150,768 1.29 118,699 1.87 Total interest bearing liabilities 187,564 1.28 % 189,402 1.20 % 163,184 1.86 % Non interest bearing liabilities 3,679 3,280 3,719 Equity 4,998 4,878 5,089 Total liabilities and equity $ 196,241 $ 197,560 $ 171,992 Net interest margin 1.85 % 1.82 % 1.05 % Rate/Volume Analysis GAAP The following rate/volume analysis shows the relative contribution of changes in interest rates and asset volumes. Increase(Decrease) Change Due To(1) (Dollars in millions) Rate Volume 2011 vs. 2010 Interest income $ 176 $ 197 $ (21 ) Interest expense 126 149 (23 ) Net interest income $ 50 $ 63 $ (13 ) 2010 vs. 2009 Interest income $ 996 $ 149 $ 847 Interest expense (760 ) (1,194 ) 434 Net interest income $ 1,756 $ 1,416 $ 340 (1) Changes in income and expense due to both rate and volume have been allocated in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each. The changes in income and expense are calculated independently for each line in the table. The totals for the rate and volume columns are not the sum of the individual lines. 58 Table of Contents Summary of our Student Loan Portfolio Ending Student Loan Balances, net December 31, 2011 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELPLoans PrivateEducationLoans Total Total student loan portfolio: In school(1) $ 3,100 $ $ 3,100 $ 2,263 $ 5,363 Grace, repayment and other(2) 46,618 86,925 133,543 35,830 169,373 Total, gross 49,718 86,925 136,643 38,093 174,736 Unamortized premium/(discount) 839 835 1,674 (873 ) 801 Receivable for partially charged off loans 1,241 1,241 Allowance for losses (117 ) (70 ) (187 ) (2,171 ) (2,358 ) Total student loan portfolio $ 50,440 $ 87,690 $ 138,130 $ 36,290 $ 174,420 % of total FFELP 37 % 63 % 100 % % of total 29 % 50 % 79 % 21 % 100 % December 31, 2010 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP PrivateEducationLoans Total Total student loan portfolio: In school(1) $ 6,333 $ $ 6,333 $ 3,752 $ 10,085 Grace, repayment and other(2) 49,068 91,537 140,605 33,780 174,385 Total, gross 55,401 91,537 146,938 37,532 184,470 Unamortized premium/(discount) 971 929 1,900 (894 ) 1,006 Receivable for partially charged off loans 1,040 1,040 Allowance for losses (120 ) (69 ) (189 ) (2,022 ) (2,211 ) Total student loan portfolio $ 56,252 $ 92,397 $ 148,649 $ 35,656 $ 184,305 % of FFELP 38 % 62 % 100 % % of total 31 % 50 % 81 % 19 % 100 % (1) Loans for borrowers still attending school and are not yet required to make payments on the loan. (2) Includes loans in deferment or forbearance. 59 Table of Contents Average Student Loan Balances (net of unamortized premium/discount) Year Ended December 31, 2011 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP PrivateEducationLoans Total Total(1) $ 53,163 $ 89,946 $ 143,109 $ 36,955 $ 180,064 % of FFELP 37 % 63 % 100 % % of total 29 % 50 % 79 % 21 % 100 % Year Ended December 31, 2010 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP PrivateEducationLoans Total Total(1) $ 61,034 $ 81,009 $ 142,043 $ 36,534 $ 178,577 % of FFELP 43 % 57 % 100 % % of total 34 % 46 % 80 % 20 % 100 % Year Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP PrivateEducationLoans Total GAAP basis $ 58,492 $ 70,046 $ 128,538 $ 23,154 $ 151,692 Off balance sheet 6,365 15,156 21,521 12,892 34,413 Total Core Earnings basis $ 64,857 $ 85,202 $ 150,059 $ 36,046 $ 186,105 % of GAAP basis FFELP 46 % 54 % 100 % % of Core Earnings basis FFELP 43 % 57 % 100 % % of total 35 % 46 % 81 % 19 % 100 % (1) Upon the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, we consolidated all of our off balance sheet securitization trusts. 60 Table of Contents Student Loan Activity Year Ended December 31, 2011 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP Total PrivateEducationLoans TotalPortfolio Beginning balance $ 56,252 $ 92,397 $ 148,649 $ 35,656 $ 184,305 Acquisitions and originations 814 802 1,616 2,942 4,558 Capitalized interest and premium/discount amortization 1,506 1,535 3,041 1,269 4,310 Consolidations to third parties (2,741 ) (1,058 ) (3,799 ) (69 ) (3,868 ) Sales (754 ) (754 ) (754 ) Repayments/defaults/other (4,637 ) (5,986 ) (10,623 ) (3,508 ) (14,131 ) Ending balance $ 50,440 $ 87,690 $ 138,130 $ 36,290 $ 174,420 Year Ended December 31, 2010 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP Total PrivateEducationLoans TotalPortfolio Beginning balance GAAP basis $ 52,675 $ 68,379 $ 121,054 $ 22,753 $ 143,807 Consolidation of off balance sheet loans(1) 5,500 14,797 20,297 12,341 32,638 Beginning balance total portfolio 58,175 83,176 141,351 35,094 176,445 Acquisitions and originations 14,349 76 14,425 2,434 16,859 Capitalized interest and premium/discount amortization 1,324 1,357 2,681 1,462 4,143 Consolidations to third parties (2,092 ) (793 ) (2,885 ) (46 ) (2,931 ) Loan acquisition on December 31, 2010 11,237 13,652 24,889 24,889 Sales (21,054 ) (71 ) (21,125 ) (21,125 ) Repayments/defaults/other (5,687 ) (5,000 ) (10,687 ) (3,288 ) (13,975 ) Ending balance $ 56,252 $ 92,397 $ 148,649 $ 35,656 $ 184,305 (1) On January 1, 2010, upon adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance, all off balance sheet loans are included in the GAAP basis. 61 Table of Contents GAAP BasisYear Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP Total PrivateEducationLoans Total On Balance SheetPortfolio Beginning balance $ 52,476 $ 71,744 $ 124,220 $ 20,582 $ 144,802 Consolidations to third parties (1,113 ) (518 ) (1,631 ) (8 ) (1,639 ) Acquisitions and originations(1) 25,677 1,150 26,827 4,343 31,170 Net acquisitions and originations 24,564 632 25,196 4,335 29,531 Securitization related(2) 645 645 645 Sales (19,300 ) (19,300 ) (19,300 ) Repayments/defaults/resales/other (5,710 ) (3,997 ) (9,707 ) (2,164 ) (11,871 ) Ending balance $ 52,675 $ 68,379 $ 121,054 $ 22,753 $ 143,807 Off Balance SheetYear Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP Total PrivateEducationLoans Total Off Balance SheetPortfolio Beginning balance $ 7,143 $ 15,531 $ 22,674 $ 12,917 $ 35,591 Consolidations to third parties (413 ) (138 ) (551 ) (18 ) (569 ) Acquisitions and originations(1) 135 208 343 498 841 Net acquisitions and originations (278 ) 70 (208 ) 480 272 Securitization related(2) (645 ) (645 ) (645 ) Repayments/defaults/resales/other (720 ) (804 ) (1,524 ) (1,056 ) (2,580 ) Ending balance $ 5,500 $ 14,797 $ 20,297 $ 12,341 $ 32,638 Core Earnings Basis PortfolioYear Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP Total PrivateEducationLoans Total CoreEarnings BasisPortfolio Beginning balance $ 59,619 $ 87,275 $ 146,894 $ 33,499 $ 180,393 Consolidations to third parties (1,526 ) (656 ) (2,182 ) (26 ) (2,208 ) Acquisitions and originations(1) 25,812 1,358 27,170 4,841 32,011 Net acquisitions and originations 24,286 702 24,988 4,815 29,803 Securitization related(2) Sales (19,300 ) (19,300 ) (19,300 ) Repayments/defaults/resales/other (6,430 ) (4,801 ) (11,231 ) (3,220 ) (14,451 ) Ending balance $ 58,175 $ 83,176 $ 141,351 $ 35,094 $ 176,445 (1) Includes accrued interest receivable capitalized to principal during the period. (2) Represents loans within securitization trusts that we are required to consolidate under GAAP once the trusts loan balances are below the clean up call threshold. 62 Table of Contents Private Education Loan Originations Total Private Education Loan originations increased 19 percent from 2010 to $2.7 billion in the year ended December 31, 2011. The following table summarizes our Private Education Loan originations. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Total Private Education Loan originations $ 2,737 $ 2,307 $ 3,176 Consumer Lending Portfolio Performance Private Education Loan Delinquencies and Forbearance The tables below present our Private Education Loan delinquency trends. GAAP BasisPrivate Education Loan Delinquencies December 31,2011 December 31,2010 December 31,2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 6,522 $ 8,340 $ 8,910 Loans in forbearance(2) 1,386 1,340 967 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 27,122 89.9 % 24,888 89.4 % 12,421 86.4 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 1,076 3.6 1,011 3.6 647 4.5 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 520 1.6 471 1.7 340 2.4 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 1,467 4.9 1,482 5.3 971 6.7 Total Private Education Loans in repayment 30,185 100 % 27,852 100 % 14,379 100 % Total Private Education Loans, gross 38,093 37,532 24,256 Private Education Loan unamortized discount (873 ) (894 ) (559 ) Total Private Education Loans 37,220 36,638 23,697 Private Education Loan receivable for partially charged off loans 1,241 1,040 499 Private Education Loan allowance for losses (2,171 ) (2,022 ) (1,443 ) Private Education Loans, net $ 36,290 $ 35,656 $ 22,753 Percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 79.2 % 74.2 % 59.3 % Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 10.1 % 10.6 % 13.6 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 4.4 % 4.6 % 6.3 % Loans in repayment greater than 12 months as a percentage of loans in repayment(4) 72.4 % 64.3 % 55.4 % (1) Deferment includes borrowers who have returned to school or are engaged in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation. (2) Loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period generally during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors, consistent with established loan program servicing policies and procedures. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. (4) Based on number of months in an active repayment status for which a scheduled monthly payment was due. 63 Table of Contents Off Balance SheetPrivate Education LoanDelinquencies(5) December 31,2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 2,546 Loans in forbearance(2) 453 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 8,987 90.0 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 332 3.3 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 151 1.5 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 517 5.2 Total Private Education Loans in repayment 9,987 100 % Total Private Education Loans, gross 12,986 Private Education Loan unamortized discount (349 ) Total Private Education Loans 12,637 Private Education Loan receivable for partially charged off loans 229 Private Education Loan allowance for losses (524 ) Private Education Loans, net $ 12,342 Percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 76.9 % Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 10.0 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 4.3 % Loans in repayment greater than 12 months as a percentage of loans in repayment(4) 56.3 % (1) Deferment includes borrowers who have returned to school or are engaged in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation. (2) Loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period generally during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors, consistent with established loan program servicing policies and procedures. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. (4) Based on number of months in an active repayment status for which a scheduled monthly payment was due. (5) On January 1, 2010, upon adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance, all off balance sheet loans are included in GAAP basis. 64 Table of Contents Core Earnings BasisPrivate Education Loan Delinquencies December 31,2011 December 31,2010 December 31,2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 6,522 $ 8,340 $ 11,456 Loans in forbearance(2) 1,386 1,340 1,420 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 27,122 89.9 % 24,888 89.4 % 21,408 87.9 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 1,076 3.6 1,011 3.6 979 4.0 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 520 1.6 471 1.7 491 2.0 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 1,467 4.9 1,482 5.3 1,488 6.1 Total Private Education Loans in repayment 30,185 100 % 27,852 100 % 24,366 100 % Total Private Education Loans, gross 38,093 37,532 37,242 Private Education Loan unamortized discount (873 ) (894 ) (908 ) Total Private Education Loans 37,220 36,638 36,334 Private Education Loan receivable for partially charged off loans 1,241 1,040 728 Private Education Loan allowance for losses (2,171 ) (2,022 ) (1,967 ) Private Education Loans, net $ 36,290 $ 35,656 $ 35,095 Percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 79.2 % 74.2 % 65.4 % Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 10.1 % 10.6 % 12.1 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 4.4 % 4.6 % 5.5 % Loans in repayment greater than 12 months as a percentage of loans in repayment(4) 72.4 % 64.3 % 55.8 % (1) Deferment includes borrowers who have returned to school or are engaged in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation. (2) Loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period generally during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors, consistent with established loan program servicing policies and procedures. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. (4) Based on number of months in an active repayment status for which a scheduled monthly payment was due. 65 Table of Contents Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses The following table summarizes changes in the allowance for Private Education Loan losses. Activity in Allowance for Private Education Loans GAAP BasisYears Ended December 31, Off Balance SheetYears Ended December 31, Core Earnings BasisYears Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011(1) 2010 2009 2011 2010(2) 2009 2011(1) 2010 2009 Allowance at beginning of period $ 2,022 $ 1,443 $ 1,308 $ $ 524 $ 505 $ 2,022 $ 1,967 $ 1,813 Provision for Private Education Loan losses(1) 1,179 1,298 967 432 1,179 1,298 1,399 Charge offs (1,072 ) (1,291 ) (876 ) (423 ) (1,072 ) (1,291 ) (1,299 ) Reclassification of interest reserve(3) 42 48 44 10 42 48 54 Consolidation of securitization trusts(2) 524 (524 ) Allowance at end of period $ 2,171 $ 2,022 $ 1,443 $ $ $ 524 $ 2,171 $ 2,022 $ 1,967 Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment 3.7 % 5.0 % 7.2 % % % 4.4 % 3.7 % 5.0 % 6.0 % Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment and forbearance 3.6 % 4.8 % 6.7 % % % 4.2 % 3.6 % 4.8 % 5.6 % Allowance as a percentage of the ending total loan balance(4) 5.5 % 5.2 % 5.8 % % % 4.0 % 5.5 % 5.2 % 5.2 % Allowance as a percentage of ending loans in repayment 7.2 % 7.3 % 10.0 % % % 5.2 % 7.2 % 7.3 % 8.1 % Allowance coverage of charge offs 2.0 1.6 1.6 1.2 2.0 1.6 1.5 Ending total loans(4) $ 39,334 $ 38,572 $ 24,755 $ $ $ 13,215 $ 39,334 $ 38,572 $ 37,970 Average loans in repayment $ 28,790 $ 25,596 $ 12,137 $ $ $ 9,597 $ 28,790 $ 25,596 $ 21,734 Ending loans in repayment $ 30,185 $ 27,852 $ 14,379 $ $ $ 9,987 $ 30,185 $ 27,852 $ 24,366 (1) See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Allowance for Loan Losses for a discussion regarding the impact of adopting new accounting guidance related to TDRs in the third quarter of 2011, which increased provisions for loan losses by $124 million in the third quarter of 2011. (2) On January 1, 2010, upon the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance, all off balance sheet loans are included in the GAAP basis. (3) Represents the additional allowance related to the amount of uncollectible interest reserved within interest income that is transferred in the period to the allowance for loan losses when interest is capitalized to a loans principal balance. (4) Ending total loans represents gross Private Education Loans, plus the receivable for partially charged off loans. 66 Table of Contents The following table provides the detail for our traditional and non traditional Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans. Years Ended December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) Traditional Non Traditional Total Traditional Non Traditional Total Traditional Non Traditional Total Ending total loans(1) $ 35,233 $ 4,101 $ 39,334 $ 34,177 $ 4,395 $ 38,572 $ 33,223 $ 4,747 $ 37,970 Ending loans in repayment 27,467 2,718 30,185 25,043 2,809 27,852 21,453 2,913 24,366 Private Education Loan allowance for losses 1,542 629 2,171 1,231 791 2,022 1,056 911 1,967 Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment 2.8 % 12.3 % 3.7 % 3.6 % 16.8 % 5.0 % 3.6 % 21.4 % 6.0 % Allowance as a percentage of ending total loan balance(1) 4.4 % 15.3 % 5.5 % 3.6 % 18.0 % 5.2 % 3.2 % 19.2 % 5.2 % Allowance as a percentage of ending loans in repayment 5.6 % 23.1 % 7.2 % 4.9 % 28.2 % 7.3 % 4.9 % 31.3 % 8.1 % Allowance coverage of charge offs 2.1 1.9 2.0 1.5 1.7 1.6 1.6 1.5 1.5 Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 8.6 % 26.0 % 10.1 % 8.8 % 27.4 % 10.6 % 9.5 % 31.4 % 12.1 % Delinquencies greater than 90 days as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 4.0 % 13.6 % 4.9 % 4.2 % 15.0 % 5.3 % 4.6 % 17.5 % 6.1 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 4.2 % 6.6 % 4.4 % 4.4 % 6.1 % 4.6 % 5.3 % 7.1 % 5.5 % Loans that entered repayment during the period(2) $ 1,514 $ 110 $ 1,624 $ 2,510 $ 187 $ 2,697 $ 2,966 $ 261 $ 3,227 Percentage of Private Education Loans with a cosigner 65 % 29 % 62 % 63 % 28 % 59 % 61 % 28 % 57 % Average FICO at origination 726 624 717 725 623 715 725 623 713 (1) Ending total loans represents gross Private Education Loans, plus the receivable for partially charged off loans. (2) Includes loans that are required to make a payment for the first time. As part of concluding on the adequacy of the allowance for loan loss, we review key allowance and loan metrics. The most significant of these metrics considered are the allowance coverage of charge offs ratio; the allowance as a percentage of total loans and of loans in repayment; and delinquency and forbearance percentages. 67 Table of Contents Receivable for Partially Charged Off Private Education Loans At the end of each month, for loans that are 212 days past due, we charge off the estimated loss of a defaulted loan balance. Actual recoveries are applied against the remaining loan balance that was not charged off. We refer to this remaining loan balance as the receivable for partially charged off loans. If actual periodic recoveries are less than expected, the difference is immediately charged off through the allowance for loan losses with an offsetting reduction in the receivable for partially charged off Private Education Loans. If actual periodic recoveries are greater than expected, they will be reflected as a recovery through the allowance for Private Education Loan losses once the cumulative recovery amount exceeds the cumulative amount originally expected to be recovered. There was $143 million in provision for Private Education Loan losses recorded in 2011 to reflect possible additional future charge offs related to the receivable for partially charged off Private Education Loans (see Consumer Lending Segment Private Education Loans Provision for Loan Losses and Charge Offs for a further discussion). The following table summarizes the activity in the receivable for partially charged off loans. Activity in Receivable for Partially Charged Off Loans GAAP Basis Off Balance Sheet Core Earnings Basis Years EndedDecember 31, Years EndedDecember 31, Years EndedDecember 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010(4) 2009 2011 2010 2009 Receivable at beginning of period $ 1,040 $ 499 $ 222 $ $ 229 $ 92 $ 1,040 $ 728 $ 314 Expected future recoveries of current period defaults(1) 391 459 324 156 391 459 480 Recoveries(2) (155 ) (104 ) (43 ) (17 ) (155 ) (104 ) (60 ) Charge offs(3) (35 ) (43 ) (4 ) (2 ) (35 ) (43 ) (6 ) Consolidation of securitization trusts(4) 229 (229 ) Receivable at end of period $ 1,241 $ 1,040 $ 499 $ $ $ 229 $ 1,241 $ 1,040 $ 728 (1) Remaining loan balance expected to be collected from contractual loan balances partially charged off during the period. This is the difference between the defaulted loan balance and the amount of the defaulted loan balance that was charged off. (2) Current period cash collections. (3) Represents the current period recovery shortfall the difference between what was expected to be collected and what was actually collected. (4) Upon the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, we consolidated all of our off balance sheet securitization trusts. Use of Forbearance as a Private Education Loan Collection Tool Forbearance involves granting the borrower a temporary cessation of payments (or temporary acceptance of smaller than scheduled payments) for a specified period of time. Using forbearance extends the original term of the loan. Forbearance does not grant any reduction in the total repayment obligation (principal or interest). While in forbearance status, interest continues to accrue and is capitalized to principal when the loan re enters repayment status. Our forbearance policies include limits on the number of forbearance months granted consecutively and the total number of forbearance months granted over the life of the loan. In some instances, we require good faith payments before granting forbearance. Exceptions to forbearance policies are permitted when such exceptions are judged to increase the likelihood of collection of the loan. Forbearance as a collection tool is used most effectively when applied based on a borrowers unique situation, including historical information and judgments. We leverage updated borrower information and other decision support tools to best determine who will be granted forbearance based on our expectations as to a borrowers ability and willingness to repay their obligation. This strategy is aimed at mitigating the overall risk of the portfolio as well as encouraging cash resolution of delinquent loans. Forbearance may be granted to borrowers who are exiting their grace period to provide additional time to obtain employment and income to support their obligations, or to current borrowers who are faced with a 68 Table of Contents hardship and request forbearance time to provide temporary payment relief. In these circumstances, a borrowers loan is placed into a forbearance status in limited monthly increments and is reflected in the forbearance status at month end during this time. At the end of their granted forbearance period, the borrower will enter repayment status as current and is expected to begin making their scheduled monthly payments on a go forward basis. Forbearance may also be granted to borrowers who are delinquent in their payments. In these circumstances, the forbearance cures the delinquency and the borrower is returned to a current repayment status. In more limited instances, delinquent borrowers will also be granted additional forbearance time. The table below reflects the historical effectiveness of using forbearance. Our experience has shown that three years after being granted forbearance for the first time, 66 percent of the loans are current, paid in full, or receiving an in school grace or deferment, and 20 percent have defaulted. The default experience associated with loans which utilize forbearance is considered in our allowance for loan losses. The monthly average number of loans granted forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance remained steady at 5.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to the year ago quarter. As of December 31, 2011, 2.6 percent of loans in current status were delinquent as of the end of the prior month, but were granted a forbearance that made them current as of December 31, 2011 (borrowers made payments on approximately 22 percent of these loans immediately prior to being granted forbearance). Tracking by First Time in Forbearance Compared to All Loans Entering Repayment Status distribution36 months afterbeing grantedforbearancefor the first time Status distribution36 months afterentering repayment(all loans) Status distribution36 months afterentering repayment forloans never enteringforbearance In school/grace/deferment 9.7 % 9.0 % 5.2 % Current 49.5 58.0 65.8 Delinquent 31 60 days 3.1 2.0 0.4 Delinquent 61 90 days 1.9 1.1 0.2 Delinquent greater than 90 days 4.8 2.7 0.3 Forbearance 4.3 3.3 Defaulted 19.7 10.8 6.0 Paid 7.0 13.1 22.1 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % The tables below show the composition and status of the Core Earnings basis Private Education Loan portfolio aged by number of months in active repayment status (months for which a scheduled monthly payment was due). As indicated in the tables, the percentage of loans in forbearance status decreases the longer the loans have been in active repayment status. At December 31, 2011, loans in forbearance status as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance were 6.9 percent for loans that have been in active repayment status for less than 25 months. The percentage drops to 1.3 percent for loans that have been in active repayment status for more than 48 months. Approximately 80 percent of our Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans in forbearance status has been in active repayment status less than 25 months. 69 Table of Contents (Dollars in millions) Monthly Scheduled Payments Due Not Yet inRepayment December 31, 2011 0 to 12 13 to 24 25 to 36 37 to 48 More than 48 Total Loans in school/grace/deferment $ $ $ $ $ $ 6,522 $ 6,522 Loans in forbearance 920 194 126 66 80 1,386 Loans in repayment current 6,866 6,014 5,110 3,486 5,646 27,122 Loans in repayment delinquent 31 60 days 506 212 158 83 117 1,076 Loans in repayment delinquent 61 90 days 245 100 78 41 56 520 Loans in repayment delinquent greater than 90 days 709 317 205 102 134 1,467 Total $ 9,246 $ 6,837 $ 5,677 $ 3,778 $ 6,033 $ 6,522 38,093 Unamortized discount (873 ) Receivable for partially charged off loans 1,241 Allowance for loan losses (2,171 ) Total Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans, net $ 36,290 Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 10.0 % 2.8 % 2.2 % 1.8 % 1.3 % % 4.4 % (Dollars in millions) Monthly Scheduled Payments Due Not Yet inRepayment December 31, 2010 0 to 12 13 to 24 25 to 36 37 to 48 More than 48 Total Loans in school/grace/deferment $ $ $ $ $ $ 8,340 $ 8,340 Loans in forbearance 980 167 92 47 54 1,340 Loans in repayment current 8,342 5,855 4,037 2,679 3,975 24,888 Loans in repayment delinquent 31 60 days 537 209 117 63 85 1,011 Loans in repayment delinquent 61 90 days 258 92 55 27 39 471 Loans in repayment delinquent greater than 90 days 815 336 156 75 100 1,482 Total $ 10,932 $ 6,659 $ 4,457 $ 2,891 $ 4,253 $ 8,340 37,532 Unamortized discount (894 ) Receivable for partially charged off loans 1,040 Allowance for loan losses (2,022 ) Total Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans, net $ 35,656 Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 9.0 % 2.5 % 2.1 % 1.6 % 1.3 % % 4.6 % (Dollars in millions) Monthly Scheduled Payments Due Not Yet inRepayment December 31, 2009 0 to 12 13 to 24 25 to 36 37 to 48 More than 48 Total Loans in school/grace/deferment $ $ $ $ $ $ 11,456 $ 11,456 Loans in forbearance 1,144 139 69 31 37 1,420 Loans in repayment current 8,817 4,730 3,119 1,878 2,864 21,408 Loans in repayment delinquent 31 60 days 642 159 79 40 59 979 Loans in repayment delinquent 61 90 days 316 81 41 23 30 491 Loans in repayment delinquent greater than 90 days 999 251 110 53 75 1,488 Total $ 11,918 $ 5,360 $ 3,418 $ 2,025 $ 3,065 $ 11,456 37,242 Unamortized discount (908 ) Receivable for partially charged off loans 728 Allowance for loan losses (1,967 ) Total Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans, net $ 35,095 Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 9.6 % 2.6 % 2.0 % 1.6 % 1.2 % % 5.5 % 70 Table of Contents The table below stratifies the portfolio of Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans in forbearance by the cumulative number of months the borrower has used forbearance as of the dates indicated. As detailed in the table below, 4 percent of loans currently in forbearance have cumulative forbearance of more than 24 months. December 31,2011 December 31,2010 December 31,2009 (Dollars in millions) ForbearanceBalance % ofTotal ForbearanceBalance % ofTotal ForbearanceBalance % ofTotal Cumulative number of months borrower has used forbearance Up to 12 months $ 887 64 % $ 958 71 % $ 1,050 74 % 13 to 24 months 446 32 343 26 332 23 More than 24 months 53 4 39 3 38 3 Total $ 1,386 100 % $ 1,340 100 % $ 1,420 100 % Private Education Loan Repayment Options Certain loan programs allow borrowers to select from a variety of repayment options depending on their loan type and their enrollment/loan status, which include the ability to extend their repayment term or change their monthly payment. The chart below provides the optional repayment offerings in addition to the standard level principal and interest payments as of December 31, 2011. Loan Program (Dollars in millions) Signature andOther Smart Option CareerTraining Total $ in Repayment $ 24,212 $ 4,196 $ 1,777 $ 30,185 $ in Total 31,484 4,765 1,844 38,093 Payment method by enrollment status: In school/Grace Deferred (1) Deferred(1), Interest only or fixed $25/month $ Interest only or fixed 25/month Repayment Level principal andinterest or graduated Level principal and interest Level principal andinterest (1) Deferred includes loans for which no payments are required and interest charges are capitalized into the loan balance. The graduated repayment program that is part of Signature and Other Loans includes an interest only payment feature that may be selected at the option of the borrower. Borrowers elect to participate in this program at the time they enter repayment following their grace period. This program is available to borrowers in repayment, after their grace period, who would like a temporary lower payment from the required principal and interest payment amount. Borrowers participating in this program pay monthly interest with no amortization of their principal balance for up to 48 payments after entering repayment (dependent on the loan product type). The maturity date of the loan is not extended when a borrower participates in this program. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, borrowers in repayment owing approximately $7.2 billion (24 percent of loans in repayment) and $7.5 billion (27 percent of loans in repayment), respectively, were enrolled in the interest only program. Of these amounts, 11 percent and 12 percent were non traditional loans as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 71 Table of Contents FFELP Loan Portfolio Performance FFELP Loan Delinquencies and Forbearance The tables below present our FFELP Loan delinquency trends GAAP BasisFFELP Loan Delinquencies December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 22,887 $ 28,214 $ 35,079 Loans in forbearance(2) 19,575 22,028 14,121 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 77,093 81.9 % 80,026 82.8 % 57,528 82.4 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 5,419 5.8 5,500 5.7 4,250 6.1 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 3,438 3.7 3,178 3.3 2,205 3.1 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 8,231 8.6 7,992 8.2 5,844 8.4 Total FFELP Loans in repayment 94,181 100 % 96,696 100 % 69,827 100 % Total FFELP Loans, gross 136,643 146,938 119,027 FFELP Loan unamortized premium 1,674 1,900 2,187 Total FFELP Loans 138,317 148,838 121,214 FFELP Loan allowance for losses (187 ) (189 ) (161 ) FFELP Loans, net $ 138,130 $ 148,649 $ 121,053 Percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 68.9 % 65.8 % 58.7 % Delinquencies as a percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 18.1 % 17.2 % 17.6 % FFELP Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 17.2 % 18.6 % 16.8 % (1) Loans for borrowers who may still be attending school or engaging in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation, as well as loans for borrowers who have requested and qualify for other permitted program deferments such as military, unemployment, or economic hardship. (2) Loans for borrowers who have used their allowable deferment time or do not qualify for deferment, that need additional time to obtain employment or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. 72 Table of Contents Off Balance SheetFFELP LoanDelinquencies(4) December 31,2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 3,312 Loans in forbearance(2) 2,726 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 11,304 82.5 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 804 5.9 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 439 3.2 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 1,160 8.4 Total FFELP Loans in repayment 13,707 100 % Total FFELP Loans, gross 19,745 FFELP Loan unamortized premium 577 Total FFELP Loans 20,322 FFELP Loan allowance for losses (25 ) FFELP Loans, net $ 20,297 Percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 69.4 % Delinquencies as a percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 17.5 % FFELP Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 16.6 % Core Earnings BasisFFELP Loan Delinquencies December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 22,887 $ 28,214 $ 38,391 Loans in forbearance(2) 19,575 22,028 16,847 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 77,093 81.9 % 80,026 82.8 % 68,832 82.4 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 5,419 5.8 5,500 5.7 5,054 6.0 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 3,438 3.7 3,178 3.3 2,644 3.2 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 8,231 8.6 7,992 8.2 7,004 8.4 Total FFELP Loans in repayment 94,181 100 % 96,696 100 % 83,534 100 % Total FFELP Loans, gross 136,643 146,938 138,772 FFELP Loan unamortized premium 1,674 1,900 2,764 Total FFELP Loans 138,317 148,838 141,536 FFELP Loan allowance for losses (187 ) (189 ) (186 ) FFELP Loans, net $ 138,130 $ 148,649 $ 141,350 Percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 68.9 % 65.8 % 60.2 % Delinquencies as a percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 18.1 % 17.2 % 17.6 % FFELP Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 17.2 % 18.6 % 16.8 % (1) Loans for borrowers who may still be attending school or engaging in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation, as well as loans for borrowers who have requested and qualify for other permitted program deferments such as military, unemployment, or economic hardship. (2) Loans for borrowers who have used their allowable deferment time or do not qualify for deferment, that need additional time to obtain employment or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. (4) On January 1, 2010, upon the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance, all off balance sheet loans are included in GAAP basis. 73 Table of Contents Allowance for FFELP Loan Losses The following table summarizes changes in the allowance for FFELP Loan losses. Activity in Allowance for FFELP Loans GAAP BasisYears Ended December 31, Off Balance SheetYears Ended December 31, Core Earnings BasisYears Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010(1) 2009 2011 2010 2009 Allowance at beginning of period $ 189 $ 161 $ 138 $ $ 25 $ 27 $ 189 $ 186 $ 165 Provision for FFELP Loan losses 86 98 106 13 86 98 119 Charge offs (78 ) (87 ) (79 ) (15 ) (78 ) (87 ) (94 ) Student loan sales and securitization activity (10 ) (8 ) (4 ) (10 ) (8 ) (4 ) Consolidation of securitization trusts(1) 25 (25 ) Allowance at end of period $ 187 $ 189 $ 161 $ $ $ 25 $ 187 $ 189 $ 186 Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment .08 % .11 % .11 % % % .10 % .08 % .11 % .11 % Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment and forbearance .07 % .09 % .10 % % % .09 % .07 % .09 % .09 % Allowance as a percentage of the ending total loans, gross .14 % .13 % .14 % % % .13 % .14 % .13 % .13 % Allowance as a percentage of ending loans in repayment .20 % .20 % .23 % % % .18 % .20 % .20 % .22 % Allowance coverage of charge offs 2.4 2.2 2.0 1.7 2.4 2.2 2.0 Ending total loans, gross $ 136,643 $ 146,938 $ 119,027 $ $ $ 19,745 $ 136,643 $ 146,938 $ 138,772 Average loans in repayment $ 94,359 $ 82,255 $ 69,020 $ $ $ 14,293 $ 94,359 $ 82,255 $ 83,313 Ending loans in repayment $ 94,181 $ 96,696 $ 69,827 $ $ $ 13,707 $ 94,181 $ 96,696 $ 83,534 (1) Upon the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, we consolidated all of our off balance sheet securitization trusts. 74 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Funding and Liquidity Risk Management The following Liquidity and Capital Resources discussion concentrates on our Consumer Lending and FFELP Loans segments. Our Business Services and Other segments require minimal capital. We define liquidity risk as the potential inability to meet our contractual and contingent financial obligations as they come due, as well as the potential inability to fund Private Education Loan originations. Our primary liquidity objective is to ensure our ongoing ability to meet our funding needs for our businesses throughout market cycles, including during periods of financial stress. Our two primary liquidity needs are funding the originations of Private Education Loans and retiring unsecured debt upon maturity. To achieve that objective we analyze and monitor our liquidity needs, maintain excess liquidity and access diverse funding sources including the issuance of unsecured debt, the issuance of secured debt primarily through asset backed securitizations and or other financing facilities and through deposits at Sallie Mae Bank (the Bank), our Utah industrial bank subsidiary. We define liquidity as cash and high quality liquid securities that we can use to meet our funding requirements as they arise. Our primary liquidity risk relates to our ability to fund new originations and raise replacement funding at a reasonable cost as our unsecured debt matures. In addition, we must continue to obtain funding at reasonable rates to meet our other business obligations and to continue to grow our business. Key risks associated with our liquidity relate to our ability to access the capital markets and access them at reasonable rates. This ability may be affected by our credit ratings, as well as the overall availability of funding sources in the marketplace. In addition, credit ratings may be important to customers or counterparties when we compete in certain markets and when we seek to engage in certain transactions, including over the counter derivatives. Credit ratings and outlooks are opinions subject to ongoing review by the ratings agencies and may change from time to time based on our financial performance, industry dynamics and other factors. Other factors that influence our credit ratings include the ratings agencies assessment of the general operating environment, our relative positions in the markets in which we compete, reputation, liquidity position, the level and volatility of earnings, corporate governance and risk management policies, capital position and capital management practices. A negative change in our credit rating could have a negative effect on our liquidity because it would raise the cost and availability of funding and potentially require additional cash collateral or restrict cash currently held as collateral on existing borrowings or derivative collateral arrangements. It is our objective to improve our credit ratings so that we can continue to efficiently access the capital markets even in difficult economic and market conditions. Recent market volatility has elevated the potential cost of capital markets issuance. Regardless, we continue to expect to fund our ongoing liquidity needs, including the origination of new Private Education Loans and the repayment of $1.8 billion of senior unsecured notes to mature in 2012, primarily through our current cash and investment position and the collection of additional bank deposits, the very predictable operating cash flows provided by earnings and repayment of principal on unencumbered student loan assets and distributions from our securitization trusts (including servicing fees which are priority payments within the trusts). We may also draw down on FFELP ABCP Facilities and the facility with the Federal Home Loan Bank in Des Moines (the FHLB DM Facility); and we may also issue term ABS and unsecured debt. Currently, new Private Education Loan originations are initially funded through deposits and subsequently securitized to term on a programmatic basis. We have $1.5 billion of cash at the Bank as of December 31, 2011 available to fund future originations. We no longer originate FFELP Loans and therefore no longer have liquidity requirements for new FFELP Loan originations. The acquisition of loan portfolios may require additional funding. Additionally, it is our intent to refinance, primarily through securitizations, the FFELP Loans that are currently in the ED Conduit Program by its January 2014 maturity date. We currently have $21.4 billion of collateral in the ED Conduit Program. While the assets in 75 Table of Contents this facility can be put to ED at the conclusion of the program thus eliminating a call on our liquidity, we intend to refinance these assets in the term ABS market prior to the facilitys expiration. In addition, capacity is maintained in our FFELP ABCP Facility and our FHLB DM Facility to finance a portion of this collateral should term financing not be achieved or available. Sources of Liquidity and Available Capacity The following tables detail our main sources of primary liquidity and our main sources of secondary liquidity (unused secured credit facilities contingent upon obtaining eligible collateral). (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 Sources of primary liquidity: Unrestricted cash and liquid investments: Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,794 $ 4,342 Investments 71 85 Total unrestricted cash and liquid investments(1) $ 2,865 $ 4,427 Unencumbered FFELP Loans $ 994 $ 1,441 Sources of secondary liquidity contingent on obtaining eligible collateral: Unused secured credit facilities: FFELP ABCP Facilities and FHLB DM Facility(2) $ 11,312 $ 12,601 (1) At December 31, 2011 and 2010, ending balances include $1.5 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, of cash and liquid investments at the Bank. This cash will be used primarily to originate or acquire student loans at the Bank. Our ability to pay dividends from the Bank is subject to capital and liquidity requirements applicable to the Bank. (2) Current borrowing capacity under the FFELP ABCP Facilities and FHLB DM Facility is determined based on qualifying collateral from the unencumbered FFELP Loans reported in primary liquidity above. Additional borrowing capacity would primarily be used to fund FFELP Loan portfolio acquisitions and to refinance FFELP Loans used as collateral in the ED Conduit Program Facility. The total amount we can borrow is contingent upon obtaining eligible collateral. If we use our unencumbered FFELP Loans as collateral to borrow against these facilities, the remaining amount we could borrow is reduced accordingly. Average Balances Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Sources of primary liquidity: Unrestricted cash and liquid investments: Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,623 $ 6,078 $ 5,713 Investments 95 94 145 Total unrestricted cash and liquid investments(1) $ 3,718 $ 6,172 $ 5,858 Unused bank lines of credit $ $ 2,069 $ 4,014 Unencumbered FFELP Loans $ 1,399 $ 1,897 $ 3,507 Sources of secondary liquidity contingent on obtaining eligible collateral: Unused secured credit facilities: FFELP ABCP Facilities and FHLB DM Facility(2) $ 11,356 $ 12,947 $ 1,802 (1) For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, average balances include $1.2 billion, $2.3 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, of cash and liquid investments at the Bank. This cash will be used primarily to originate or acquire student loans at the Bank. Our ability to pay dividends from the Bank is subject to capital and liquidity requirements applicable to the Bank. (2) Current borrowing capacity under the FFELP ABCP Facilities and FHLB DM Facility is determined based on qualifying collateral from the unencumbered FFELP Loans reported in primary liquidity above. Additional borrowing capacity would primarily be used to fund FFELP Loan portfolio acquisitions and to refinance FFELP Loans used as collateral in the ED Conduit Program Facility. The total amount we can borrow is contingent upon obtaining eligible collateral. If we use our unencumbered FFELP Loans as collateral to borrow against these facilities, the remaining amount we could borrow is reduced accordingly. 76 Table of Contents In addition to the assets listed in the table above, we hold a number of other unencumbered assets, consisting primarily of Private Education Loans and other assets. At December 31, 2011, we had a total of $20.2 billion of unencumbered assets (which includes the assets that comprise our primary liquidity and are available to serve as collateral for our secondary liquidity), excluding goodwill and acquired intangibles. Total unencumbered student loans, net, comprised $12.0 billion of our unencumbered assets of which $11.0 billion and $1.0 billion related to Private Education Loans, net, and FFELP Loans, net, respectively. For further discussion of our various sources of liquidity, such as the ED Conduit Program, the Sallie Mae Bank, our continued access to the ABS market, our asset backed financing facilities, the lending agreement we entered into with the FHLB DM and our issuance of unsecured debt, see Note 6 Borrowings to our consolidated financial statements. The following table reconciles encumbered and unencumbered assets and their net impact on total tangible equity. (Dollars in billions) December 31,2011 December 31,2010 Net assets of consolidated variable interest entities (encumbered assets) $ 12.9 $ 13.1 Tangible unencumbered assets(1) 20.2 22.3 Unsecured debt (24.1 ) (26.9 ) Mark to market on unsecured hedged debt(2) (1.9 ) (1.4 ) Other liabilities, net (2.3 ) (2.6 ) Total tangible equity $ 4.8 $ 4.5 (1) Excludes goodwill and acquired intangible assets. (2) At December 31, 2011 and 2010, there were $1.6 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively, of net gains on derivatives hedging this debt in unencumbered assets, which partially offset these losses. 2011 Transactions During 2011, we issued a $2.0 billion senior unsecured bond. Additionally, we issued a total of $2.4 billion in FFELP ABS and $2.1 billion in Private Education Loan ABS. We expect to be a programmatic issuer of ABS throughout 2012. In the fourth quarter 2011, we closed on a $3.4 billion Private Education Loan asset backed commercial paper facility that matures in January 2014. This facility was used to finance the call of Private Education Loan asset backed securities in the fourth quarter 2011 and in early 2012 at a significant discount to the bonds par amount. This resulted in a reduced cost of funds compared to that of the called bonds. In 2011 we repurchased $894 million face amount of our senior unsecured notes in the aggregate, with maturity dates ranging from 2011 to 2014, which resulted in a realized Core Earnings gain of $64 million. On June 17, 2011, September 16, 2011, and December 16, 2011, we paid a quarterly dividend of $.10 per share on our common stock, the first dividends paid since early 2007. In April 2011, we authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of outstanding common stock in open market transactions and terminated all previous authorizations. During the second and third quarters of 2011, we repurchased 19.1 million shares for an aggregate purchase price of $300 million. With this action, we fully utilized this share repurchase authorization. 2012 Transactions The following financing transactions have taken place in 2012: On January 13, 2012, the FFELP ABCP Facility was amended to increase the amount available to $7.5 billion, reflecting an increase of $2.5 billion over the previously scheduled facility reduction. In addition, 77 Table of Contents the amendment extends the final maturity date by one year to January 9, 2015 and increases the amount available at future step down dates. On January 19, 2012, we issued $765 million of FFELP ABS. On January 27, 2012, we issued a two part $1.5 billion senior unsecured bond. $750 million has a five year term, the remaining $750 million has a ten year term. On February 9, 2012, we issued $547 million of Private Education Loan ABS. In addition, on January 26, 2012, we increased our quarterly dividend on our common stock to $0.125 per share. The next such quarterly dividend will be paid on March 16, 2012. We also authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of outstanding common stock. Counterparty Exposure Counterparty exposure related to financial instruments arises from the risk that a lending, investment or derivative counterparty will not be able to meet its obligations to us. Risks associated with our lending portfolio are discussed in Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition FFELP Loan Portfolio Performance and Consumer Lending Portfolio Performance. Our investment portfolio is composed of very short term securities issued by a diversified group of highly rated issuers limiting our counterparty exposure. Additionally, our investing activity is governed by Board approved limits on the amount that is allowed to be invested with any one issuer based on the credit rating of the issuer, further minimizing our counterparty exposure. Counterparty credit risk is considered when valuing investments and considering impairment. Related to derivative transactions, protection against counterparty risk is generally provided by International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) Credit Support Annexes (CSAs). CSAs require a counterparty to post collateral if a potential default would expose the other party to a loss. All derivative contracts entered into by SLM Corporation and the Bank are covered under such agreements and require collateral to be exchanged based on the net fair value of derivatives with each counterparty. Our securitization trusts require collateral in all cases if the counterpartys credit rating is withdrawn or downgraded below a certain level. Additionally, securitizations involving foreign currency notes issued after November 2005 also require the counterparty to post collateral to the trust based on the fair value of the derivative, regardless of credit rating. The trusts are not required to post collateral to the counterparties. In all cases, our exposure is limited to the value of the derivative contracts in a gain position net of any collateral we are holding. We consider counterparties credit risk when determining the fair value of derivative positions on our exposure net of collateral. We have liquidity exposure related to collateral movements between us and our derivative counterparties. Movements in the value of the derivatives, which are primarily affected by changes in interest rate and foreign exchange rates, may require us to return cash collateral held or may require us to access primary liquidity to post collateral to counterparties. If our credit ratings are downgraded from current levels, we may be required to segregate additional unrestricted cash collateral into restricted accounts. 78 Table of Contents The table below highlights exposure related to our derivative counterparties at December 31, 2011. (Dollars in millions) SLM Corporationand Sallie Mae BankContracts Securitization TrustContracts(1) Exposure, net of collateral $ 113 $ 807 Percent of exposure to counterparties with credit ratings below S&P AA or Moodys Aa3 98 % 32 % Percent of exposure to counterparties with credit ratings below S&P A or Moodys A3 0 % 0 % (1) Current turmoil in the European markets has led to increased disclosure of exposure to those markets. Of the total net exposure, $691 million is related to financial institutions located in France; of this amount, $498 million carries a guarantee from the French government. $690 million of the $691 million exposure relates to derivatives held at our securitization trusts. Counterparties to these derivatives are required to post collateral when their credit rating is withdrawn or downgraded below a certain level. As of December 31, 2011, no collateral was required to be posted. Adjustments are made to our derivative valuations for counterparty credit risk. The adjustments made at December 31, 2011 related to derivatives with French financial institutions (including those that carry a guarantee from the French government) decreased the derivative asset value by $179 million. Credit risks for all derivative counterparties are assessed internally on a continual basis. Core Earnings Basis Borrowings The following tables present the ending balances of our Core Earnings basis borrowings at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, and average balances and average interest rates of our Core Earnings basis borrowings for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. The average interest rates include derivatives that are economically hedging the underlying debt but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. (See Core Earnings Definition and Limitations Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP Reclassification of Realized Gains (Losses) on Derivative and Hedging Activities of this Item 7). Ending Balances December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) ShortTerm LongTerm Total ShortTerm LongTerm Total ShortTerm LongTerm Total Unsecured borrowings: Senior unsecured debt $ 1,801 $ 15,199 $ 17,000 $ 4,361 $ 15,742 $ 20,103 $ 5,185 $ 22,797 $ 27,982 Brokered deposits 1,733 1,956 3,689 1,387 3,160 4,547 842 4,795 5,637 Retail and other deposits 2,123 2,123 1,370 1,370 204 204 Other(1) 1,329 1,329 887 887 1,268 1,268 Total unsecured borrowings 6,986 17,155 24,141 8,005 18,902 26,907 7,499 27,592 35,091 Secured borrowings: FFELP Loans securitizations 107,905 107,905 113,671 113,671 64 103,724 103,788 Private Education Loans securitizations 19,297 19,297 21,409 21,409 20,624 20,624 ED Conduit Program Facility 21,313 21,313 24,484 24,484 14,314 14,314 ED Participation Program Facility 9,006 9,006 FFELP ABCP Facility 4,445 4,445 5,853 5,853 8,801 8,801 Private Education Loans ABCP Facility 1,992 1,992 Acquisition financing(2) 916 916 1,064 1,064 FHLB DM Facility 1,210 1,210 900 900 Total secured borrowings 22,523 134,555 157,078 25,384 141,997 167,381 23,384 133,149 156,533 Total $ 29,509 $ 151,710 $ 181,219 $ 33,389 $ 160,899 $ 194,288 $ 30,883 $ 160,741 $ 191,624 (1) Other primarily consists of the obligation to return cash collateral held related to derivative exposure. (2) Relates to the acquisition of $25 billion of student loans at the end of 2010. 79 Table of Contents Secured borrowings comprised 87 percent of our Core Earnings basis debt outstanding at December 31, 2011 versus 86 percent at December 31, 2010. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) AverageBalance AverageRate AverageBalance AverageRate AverageBalance AverageRate Unsecured borrowings: Senior unsecured debt $ 19,562 2.34 % $ 24,480 1.70 % $ 31,863 1.77 % Brokered deposits 3,660 2.35 5,123 2.65 4,754 3.50 Retail and other deposits 1,684 1.11 644 1.16 128 .59 Other(1) 1,187 .17 1,159 .19 1,263 .28 Total unsecured borrowings 26,093 2.16 31,406 1.79 38,008 1.94 Secured borrowings: FFELP Loans securitizations 110,474 .93 100,967 .87 105,069 1.15 Private Education Loans securitizations 20,976 2.17 21,367 2.13 17,731 1.83 ED Conduit Program Facility 22,869 .75 15,096 .70 7,340 .75 ED Participation Program Facility 13,537 .81 14,174 1.43 FFELP ABCP Facility 4,989 1.05 6,623 1.24 15,401 2.79 Private Education Loans ABCP Facility 272 2.08 838 5.56 Acquisition financing(2) 998 4.81 3 5.28 FHLB DM Facility 893 .25 403 .35 Total secured borrowings 161,471 1.09 157,996 1.03 160,553 1.41 Total $ 187,564 1.24 % $ 189,402 1.16 % $ 198,561 1.51 % (1) Other primarily consists of the obligation to return cash collateral held related to derivative exposure. (2) Relates to the acquisition of $25 billion of student loans at the end of 2010. Contractual Cash Obligations The following table provides a summary of our obligations associated with long term notes at December 31, 2011. For further discussion of these obligations, see Note 6 Borrowings. (Dollars in millions) 1 Yearor Less 2 to 3Years 4 to 5Years Over5 Years Total Long term notes: Senior unsecured debt $ $ 5,354 $ 3,012 $ 6,833 $ 15,199 Unsecured term bank deposits 1,956 1,956 Secured borrowings(1) 12,795 26,933 18,949 75,878 134,555 Total contractual cash obligations(2) $ 12,795 $ 34,243 $ 21,961 $ 82,711 $ 151,710 (1) Includes long term beneficial interests of $127.2 billion of notes issued by consolidated VIEs in conjunction with our securitization transactions and included in long term notes in the consolidated balance sheet. Timing of obligations is estimated based on our current projection of prepayment speeds of the securitized assets. (2) The aggregate principal amount of debt that matures in each period is $12.9 billion, $34.5 billion, $22.1 billion and $83.3 billion, respectively. Specifically excludes derivative market value adjustments of $2.7 billion for long term notes. Interest obligations on notes are predominantly variable in nature, resetting quarterly based on 3 month LIBOR. Unrecognized tax benefits were $40 million and $39 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. For additional information, see Note 15 Income Taxes. 80 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations addresses our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP). Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies includes a summary of the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results may differ from these estimates under varying assumptions or conditions. On a quarterly basis, management evaluates its estimates, particularly those that include the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments and are often about matters that are inherently uncertain. The most significant judgments, estimates and assumptions relate to the following critical accounting policies that are discussed in more detail below. Allowance for Loan Losses In determining the allowance for loan losses, we estimate the principal amount of loans that will default over the next two years (two years being the expected period between a loss event and default) and how much we will recover over time related to the defaulted amount. Our historical experience indicates that, on average, the time between the date that a borrower experiences a default causing event (e.g., the loss trigger event) and the date that we charge off the unrecoverable portion of that loan is two years. Additionally, we estimate an allowance amount sufficient to cover life of loan expected losses for loans classified as a troubled debt restructuring (see further discussion below). In the first quarter of 2011, we implemented a new model to estimate the Private Education Loan default amount. Both the prior model and new model are considered migration models. Our prior allowance model (in place through December 31, 2010) segmented the portfolio into categories of similar risk characteristics of which we consider school type, credit scores, existence of a cosigner, loan status and loan seasoning as the key credit quality indicators. Our new model uses these credit quality indicators, but incorporates a more granular segmentation of seasoning data into the calculation. Another change in the new allowance model relates to the historical period of experience that we use as a starting point for projecting future defaults. Our new model is based upon a seasonal average, adjusted to the most recent three to six months of actual collection experience as the starting point and applies expected macroeconomic changes and collection procedure changes to estimate expected losses caused by loss events incurred as of the balance sheet date. Our previous model primarily used a one year historical default experience period and incorporated the estimated impact of macroeconomic factors and collection procedure changes on a qualitative basis. Our current model places a greater emphasis on the more recent default experience rather than the default experience for older historical periods, as we believe the recent default experience is more indicative of the probable losses incurred in the loan portfolio today. While we incorporated the new model in the first quarter of 2011, the overall process for calculating the appropriate amount of allowance for Private Education Loan loss did not change. Significantly more judgment has been required over the last several years, compared with years prior, in light of the U.S. economy and its effect on our customers ability to pay their obligations. We believe that the current model more accurately reflects recent borrower behavior, loan performance, and collection performance, as well as expectations about economic factors. There was no adjustment to our allowance for loan loss upon implementing this new default projection model in the first quarter of 2011. Similar to estimating defaults, we begin with historical borrower payment behavior to estimate the timing and amount of future recoveries on Private Education Loan defaults. We use judgment in determining whether historical performance is representative of what we expect to recover in the future. In contrast to the overall improvements in credit quality, delinquency and charge off trends we saw in 2011, Private Education Loans which defaulted between 2008 and 2011 for which we have previously charged off estimated losses have, to varying degrees, not met our recovery expectations to date and may continue not to do so. (See Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis Consumer Lending Segment Private Education Loans Provision for Loan Losses and Charge offs of this Item 7, for further discussion.) 81 Table of Contents On July 1, 2011, we adopted Accounting Standards Update No. 2011 02, Receivables (Topic 310), A Creditors Determination of Whether a Restructuring Is a Troubled Debt Restructuring. This new guidance clarifies when a loan restructuring constitutes a troubled debt restructuring. In applying the new guidance we have determined that certain Private Education Loans for which we have granted forbearance of greater than three months are classified as troubled debt restructurings. If a loan meets the criteria for troubled debt accounting then an allowance for loan loss is established which represents the present value of the losses that are expected to occur over the remaining life of the loan. This accounting results in a higher allowance for loan losses than our previously established allowance for these loans as our previous allowance for these loans represented an estimate of charge offs expected to occur over the next two years (two years being our loss confirmation period). The new accounting guidance was effective as of July 1, 2011 but was required to be applied retrospectively to January 1, 2011. This resulted in $124 million of additional provision for loan losses in the third quarter of 2011 from approximately $3.8 billion of student loans being classified as troubled debt restructurings. This new accounting guidance is only applied to certain borrowers who use their fourth or greater month of forbearance during the time period this new guidance is effective. This new accounting guidance has the effect of accelerating the recognition of expected losses related to our Private Education Loan portfolio. The increase in the provision for losses as a result of this new accounting guidance does not reflect a decrease in credit expectations of the portfolio or an increase in the expected life of loan losses related to this portfolio. We believe forbearance is an accepted and effective collections and risk management tool for Private Education Loans. We plan to continue to use forbearance and as a result, we expect to have additional loans classified as troubled debt restructurings in the future (see Financial Condition Consumer Lending Portfolio Performance Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses of this Item 7. for a further discussion on the use of forbearance as a collection tool). FFELP Loans are insured as to their principal and accrued interest in the event of default subject to a Risk Sharing level based on the date of loan disbursement. These insurance obligations are supported by contractual rights against the United States. For loans disbursed after October 1, 1993, and before July 1, 2006, we receive 98 percent reimbursement on all qualifying default claims. For loans disbursed on or after July 1, 2006, we receive 97 percent reimbursement. For loans disbursed prior to October 1, 1993, we receive 100 percent reimbursement. The allowance for FFELP Loan losses uses historical experience of borrower default behavior and a two year loss confirmation period to estimate the credit losses incurred in the loan portfolio at the reporting date. We apply the default rate projections, net of applicable Risk Sharing, to each category for the current period to perform our quantitative calculation. Once the quantitative calculation is performed, we review the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses and determine if qualitative adjustments need to be considered. Premium and Discount Amortization The most judgmental estimate for premium and discount amortization on student loans is the Constant Prepayment Rate (CPR), which measures the rate at which loans in the portfolio pay down principal compared to their stated terms. Loan consolidation, default, term extension and other prepayment factors affecting our CPR estimates are affected by changes in our business strategy, changes in our competitors business strategies, FFELP legislative changes, interest rates and changes to the current economic and credit environment. When we determine the CPR we begin with historical prepayment rates due to consolidation activity, defaults, payoffs and term extensions from the utilization of forbearance. We make judgments about which historical period to start with and then make further judgments about whether that historical experience is representative of future expectations and whether additional adjustment may be needed to those historical prepayment rates. In the past the consolidation of FFELP Loans and Private Education Loans significantly affected our CPRs and updating those assumptions often resulted in material adjustments to our amortization expense. As a result of the passage of HCERA, there is no longer the ability to consolidate under the FFELP. In addition, due to the current U.S. economic and credit environment, we, as well as many other industry competitors, have suspended our Private Education Loans consolidation program. As a result, we do not expect to consolidate FFELP Loans 82 Table of Contents in the future and do not currently expect others to actively consolidate our FFELP loans. As a result, we expect CPRs related to our FFELP Loans to remain relatively stable over time. See Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis FFELP Loans Segment of this Item 7, for discussion of the potential impact of a recent Special Direct Consolidation Loan Initiative. We expect that in the future both we and our competitors will begin to consolidate Private Education Loans. This is built into the CPR assumption we use for Private Education Loans. However, it is difficult to accurately project the timing and level at which this consolidation activity will begin and our assumption may need to be updated by a material amount in the future based on changes in the economy and marketplace. The level of defaults is a significant component of our FFELP Loan and Private Education Loan CPR. This component of the FFELP Loan and Private Education Loan CPR is estimated in the same manner as discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Allowance for Loan Loss of this Item 7 the only difference is for premium and discount amortization purposes the estimate of defaults is a life of loan estimate whereas for allowance for loan loss it is a two year estimate. Fair Value Measurement The most significant assumptions used in fair value measurements, including those related to credit and liquidity risk, are as follows: 1. Investments Our investments primarily consist of overnight/weekly maturity instruments with high credit quality counterparties. However, we consider credit and liquidity risk involving specific instruments in determining their fair value and, when appropriate, have adjusted the fair value of these instruments for the effect of credit and liquidity risk. These assumptions have further been validated by the successful maturity of these investments in the period immediately following the end of the reporting period. 2. Derivatives When determining the fair value of derivatives, we take into account counterparty credit risk for positions where we are exposed to the counterparty on a net basis by assessing exposure net of collateral held. The net exposure for each counterparty is adjusted based on market information available for that specific counterparty, including spreads from credit default swaps. Additionally, when the counterparty has exposure to us related to our derivatives, we fully collateralize the exposure, minimizing the adjustment necessary to the derivative valuations for our own credit risk. Trusts that contain derivatives are not required to post collateral to counterparties as the credit quality and securitized nature of the trusts minimizes any adjustments for the counterpartys exposure to the trusts. Adjustments related to credit risk reduced the overall value of our derivatives by $190 million as of December 31, 2011. We also take into account changes in liquidity when determining the fair value of derivative positions. We adjusted the fair value of certain less liquid positions downward by approximately $111 million to take into account a significant reduction in liquidity as of December 31, 2011, related primarily to basis swaps indexed to interest rate indices with inactive markets. A major indicator of market inactivity is the widening of the bid/ask spread in these markets. In general, the widening of counterparty credit spreads and reduced liquidity for derivative instruments as indicated by wider bid/ask spreads will reduce the fair value of derivatives. In addition, certain cross currency interest rate swaps hedging foreign currency denominated reset rate and amortizing notes in our trusts contain extension features that coincide with the remarketing dates of the notes. The valuation of the extension feature requires significant judgment based on internally developed inputs. 3. Student Loans Our FFELP Loans and Private Education Loans are accounted for at cost or at the lower of cost or fair value if the loan is held for sale. The fair values of our student loans are disclosed in Note 13 Fair Value Measurements. For both FFELP Loans and Private Education Loans accounted for at cost, fair value is determined by modeling loan level cash flows using stated terms of the assets and internally developed assumptions to determine aggregate portfolio yield, net present value and average life. The significant assumptions used to project cash flows are prepayment speeds, default rates, cost of funds, the amount funded by debt versus equity, and required return on equity. In addition, the Floor Income component of our FFELP Loan portfolio is valued through discounted cash 83 Table of Contents flow and option models using both observable market inputs and internally developed inputs. Significant inputs into the models are not generally market observable. They are either derived internally through a combination of historical experience and managements qualitative expectation of future performance (in the case of prepayment speeds, default rates, and capital assumptions) or are obtained through external broker quotes (as in the case of cost of funds). When possible, market transactions are used to validate the model. In most cases, these are either infrequent or not observable. For FFELP Loans classified as held for sale and accounted for at the lower of cost or market, the fair value is based on the committed sales price of the various loan purchase programs established by ED. For further information regarding the effect of our use of fair values on our results of operations, see Note 13 Fair Value Measurements. Transfers of Financial Assets and the Variable Interest Entity (VIE) Consolidation Model Changes in Accounting Principles effective January 1, 2010 The new consolidation accounting adopted on January 1, 2010 significantly changed the consolidation model for Variable Interest Entities (VIEs). This new rule, among other things, (1) eliminated the exemption for QSPEs, (2) provided a new approach for determining who should consolidate a VIE that is more focused on control rather than economic interest, (3) changed when it is necessary to reassess who should consolidate a VIE and (4) required additional disclosure. Under these new rules, if we have a variable interest in a VIE and we have determined that we are the primary beneficiary of the VIE then we will consolidate the VIE. We are considered the primary beneficiary if we have both: (1) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIEs economic performance and (2) the obligation to absorb losses or receive benefits of the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE. There is considerable judgment that has to be used as it relates to determining the primary beneficiary of the VIEs with which we are associated. There are no bright line tests. Rather, the assessment of who has the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly affects the VIEs economic performance and who has the obligation to absorb losses or receive benefits of the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE is very qualitative and judgmental in nature. However, based on our current relationship with our securitization trusts and other financing vehicles which are considered VIEs, we believe the assessment is more straightforward. As it relates to our securitized assets, we are the servicer of those securitized assets (which means we have the power to direct the activities of the trust) and we own the Residual Interest (which means we have the loss and gain obligation that could potentially be significant to the VIE) of the securitization trusts. As a result we are the primary beneficiary of our securitization trusts and other financing vehicles. See Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies for further details regarding the adoption of these new rules on January 1, 2010. Derivative Accounting The most significant judgments related to derivative accounting are: (1) concluding the derivative is an effective hedge and qualifies for hedge accounting and (2) determining the fair value of certain derivatives and hedged items. To qualify for hedge accounting a derivative must be concluded to be a highly effective hedge upon designation and on an ongoing basis. There are no bright line tests on what is considered a highly effective hedge. We use a historical regression analysis to prove ongoing and prospective hedge effectiveness. See previous discussion under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Fair Value Measurement of this Item 7 for significant judgments related to the valuation of derivatives. Although some of our valuations are more judgmental than others, we compare the fair values of our derivatives that we calculate to those provided by our counterparties on a monthly basis. We view this as a critical control which helps validate these judgments. Any significant differences with our counterparties are identified and resolved appropriately. 84 Table of Contents Goodwill and Intangible Assets In determining annually (or more frequently if required) whether goodwill is impaired, we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit, which is the same as or one level below a business segment, is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform additional goodwill impairment testing. The more likely than not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. If this more likely than not threshold is met, then we will complete a quantitative goodwill impairment analysis which consists of a comparison of the fair value of the reporting unit to our carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, a goodwill impairment analysis will be performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. If we determine that this event has occurred, we perform an analysis to determine the fair value of the business unit. There are significant judgments involved in determining the fair value of a business unit, including assumptions regarding estimates of future cash flows from existing and new business activities, customer relationships, the value of existing customer contracts, the value of other tangible and intangible assets, as well as assumptions regarding what we believe a third party would be willing to pay for all of the assets and liabilities of the business unit. This calculation requires us to estimate the appropriate discount and growth rates to apply to those projected cash flows and the appropriate control premium to apply to arrive at the final fair value. The business units for which we must estimate the fair value are not publicly traded and often there is not comparable market data available for that individual business to aid in its valuation. We use a third party appraisal firm to provide an opinion on the fair values we conclude upon. Risk Management Our Approach The products, services and markets in which we operate, as well as the various regulatory authorities and regimes to which our businesses, financial condition and lending practices are subject, continue to undergo dramatic change. We recognize that to maintain our reputation with customers and protect the interests of our shareholders and other key constituencies we must continually refresh our understanding of each of our business models, identify and manage the risks related to each of these businesses. Risk management, assessment and oversight responsibilities exist and are documented, reviewed and coordinated at various levels of the Company. Risk Oversight Our Board of Directors and its standing committees oversee our overall strategic direction, including setting our risk management philosophy, tolerance and parameters; and establishing procedures for assessing the risks our businesses face as well as the risk management practices our management team develop and utilize. We escalate to our Board of Directors any significant departures from established tolerances and parameters and review new and emerging risks. In 2011, our Board of Directors invested significant time and effort in continuing to consider and address changes in our risk profile resulting from the end of FFELP in 2010. Particular attention was paid to the strategic redirection of our businesses into consumer lending products and various strategies for expanding our business services opportunities. The format of our strategic business plan, key performance measures and related risk tolerances and parameters and escalation procedures were revised accordingly. Our Board of Directors also directed our Legal, Compliance and Internal Audit groups to work with management and the Board to review and report on the state of existing Board and management risk practices and procedures and to undertake such improvements as the Board of Directors or its committees may direct. The standing committees of our Board of Directors and their current risk oversight portfolios are as follows: Executive Committee has full authority of our Board of Directors to take action when the Board is not in session and includes all board committee chairs, lead outside director, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and 85 Table of Contents Chairman. Key risk functions include working with management to establish and present to our Board of Directors acceptable risk tolerances and parameters for the Company; periodic review and allocation of oversight of particular risks to the committees of the Board for oversight and reporting to the Board of Directors; and advance review with the Audit Committee of all our earnings releases, periodic reports and managements opinions on business outlook and financial guidance. Finance and Operations Committee assists the Board of Directors through its oversight and reporting on capital management, funding/liquidity strategy, acquisitions, and business operation matters. Key risk functions include monitoring our managements performance within agreed risk parameters and tolerances with respect to all aspects of our operational and financial risk profile, including our Private Education Loan programs and new product initiatives; credit, interest rate and currency risks; investment, asset, and liability management policies and contingency funding plan. Audit Committee assists the Board of Directors through its oversight and reporting on the integrity of our financial statements and internal controls processes. Key risk functions include periodically reviewing our financial statements and public disclosures and financial and disclosure policies and underlying assumptions; the qualifications, performance and independence of our independent auditors and Internal Audit group; managements efforts and effectiveness in managing legal and regulatory compliance and litigation risks; the risk assessment, audit plans and conduct of the Internal Audit group; our information security practices and procedures; and compliance with material aspects of the our Code of Business Conduct and related policies regarding independence and transactions with affiliates. Compensation and Personnel Committee assists the Board of Directors through its oversight and reporting matters of executive compensation and personnel. Key risk functions include the approval of compensation, benefits and employment arrangements for our CEO, other senior executive officers and the independent members of the Board; approval of all equity based plans; general oversight of all benefit, compensation and incentive plans applicable to executive management; consideration of the risk management review of compensation practices conducted at least annually by our Chief Credit and Chief Compliance Officers; advising on various human resources matters, including succession planning and talent management. Nominating and Governance Committee assists the Board of Directors through its oversight and reporting of appropriate standards for governance, board operations and qualifications and recommendations of directors. Key risk functions include establishing appropriate standards for corporate governance and guidelines, conducting our Board of Directors annual self assessment survey and taking actions regarding its results as relates to improving the operations of the Board of Directors, the qualifications of its directors and succession planning at the Board of Directors and CEO levels. Strategy Committee This committee engages the CEO and senior management from time to time to develop and prepare for the Board of Directors annual strategic planning process and facilitate the exchange of information and ideas with our management team in their development of proposals to be considered and approved by the Board of Directors regarding our long term strategic agenda and initiatives. The committee has no separate or delegated authority from that of our Board of Directors. Risk Assessment Our Internal Audit Department monitors our various risk management and compliance efforts, identifies areas that may require increased focus and resources, and reports significant control issues and recommendations to executive management and the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. At least annually, Internal Audit performs a risk assessment to identify our top risks and to help develop the annual internal audit plan. Risks are rated on significance and likelihood of occurrence and communicated to our management team members who allocate appropriate attention and resources. The risk assessment focuses on those risks most relevant to us and our subsidiaries (including the Bank). The assessment process includes completion of an anonymous survey by our officers followed by interviews with and reports to senior leadership. 86 Table of Contents Risk Management Our senior executive management team, individually and through participation in or more of our internal risk management committees, are ultimately responsible for the management of risk across our businesses. Each of these committees or their senior executive sponsors have specified periodic reporting and issue escalation obligations to our Board of Directors and their standing committees. Our key internal risk management committees currently include: Disclosure Committee reviews and approves content of periodic SEC reporting documents, earnings releases and related disclosure policies and procedures. Loan Loss Reserve Committee oversees the sufficiency of our loan loss reserves and considers current or emerging issues affecting delinquency and default trends which may result in adjustments in our allowances for loan losses. Critical Accounting Assumptions Committee oversees critical accounting assumptions, as well as key judgments and estimates, utilized in preparation of our financial statements. Asset and Liability Committee oversees our investment portfolio and strategy and our compliance with our investment policy. Corporate Credit Committee oversees the overall credit and portfolio management strategy, policy review and monitoring. Corporate Compliance Committee oversees regulatory compliance risk management activities for Sallie Mae and its affiliates. ICE Steering Committee oversees our Internal Controls Excellence (ICE) initiative and Sarbanes Oxley compliance and sponsors periodic forums in which the top internal control deficiencies are discussed and analyzed to ensure the control deficiencies are identified, understood by all relevant affected parties, and have established resolution plans supported by adequate resources. Customer Products and Services Assessment Committee considers all matters relating to risks affecting us and our wholly and majority owned subsidiaries associated with new, expanded, or modified products or services and makes recommendations regarding proposed products or service offerings based on their inherent risks and controls. Each business segment is primarily responsible and accountable for managing risks specific to its area utilizing formalized processes and procedures that have been developed by each division in collaboration with internal risk management partners to identify, monitor, manage and escalate the risks specific to that business segments activities. Our executive management team and internal risk management partners, including compliance, credit risk, human resources, legal, information technology, finance and accounting, and information security are responsible for providing our business segments with the training, systems and specialized expertise necessary to properly perform their risk management duties. Our Significant Risks Significant risks may be grouped into the following categories: (1) funding and liquidity; (2) operational; (3) political/reputational; (4) market; (5) credit; and (6) legal and compliance. More specific descriptions of the particular risks of each type we currently face are discussed in Item 1A Risk Factors above. Funding and Liquidity Risk Management Funding and liquidity risk involves our potential inability to fund liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, fund asset growth and business operations, and meet contractual obligations at reasonable market 87 Table of Contents rates. Our primary liquidity objective is to ensure our ongoing ability to meet our funding needs for our businesses throughout market cycles, including during periods of financial stress. Our two primary liquidity risks involve our ongoing ability to originate Private Education Loans and retire indebtedness as it matures. Key objectives associated with our funding liquidity needs relate to our ability to access the capital markets at reasonable rates and to continue to maintain retail deposits and funding sources through the Bank. Our funding and liquidity risk management activities are centralized within our Corporate Finance department, which is responsible for planning and executing our funding activities and strategies. We analyze and monitor our liquidity risk, maintain excess liquidity and access diverse funding sources depending on current market conditions. Funding and liquidity risks are overseen and recommendations approved primarily through our internal Asset and Liability Committee. The Finance and Operations Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for periodically reviewing and approving our funding and liquidity positions and contingency funding plan. Our Board of Directors also receives regular reports on our performance against funding and liquidity plans at each meeting. Operational Risk Management Operational risk arises from the potential that inadequate information systems, operational problems, breaches in internal controls, fraud, or unforeseen catastrophes will result in unexpected losses. The cornerstone of our annual operational risk management program involves our Board of Directors approval of our annual strategic business plan and managements recommendations for how to grow our business while focused on managing risks to acceptable parameters. Our Board of Directors receives operations reports (which includes operating metrics and performance against annual plan) from our Chief Executive and Chief Operating Officers at each regularly scheduled meeting. Additionally, the Finance & Operations Committee receives business development updates regarding our various business initiatives that provide information and metrics about each key component of business operations. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors receives periodic information security updates and reviews operational and systems related matters to insure their implementation produce no significant internal control issues. Operational risk exposures are managed through a combination of business line management and enterprise wide oversight. Our Chief Operating Officer (COO) is responsible for all of our business operations (credit, servicing, collections, and technology). Management committees, comprised of senior managers and subject matter experts, focus on particular aspects of operational risk. Enterprise wide oversight is conducted by a number of our internal risk management committees listed above. Most comprehensively, the Customer Products and Services Assessment Committee confirms that in connection with new, expanded, or modified products or services it recommends for approval that all significant risks are properly identified; adequate controls are in place to monitor risks to established, prudent limits; and monitoring of risk management activities, exposures, and issues are performed. Market Risk Management Market risk is the risk to our financial condition resulting from adverse movements in market rates or prices, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads or equity prices. We are exposed to various types of market risk, in particular interest rate risk and other risks that arise through the management of our investment portfolio. Market risk exposures are managed through our internal Asset and Liability Committee. The responsibilities of this committee include: maintaining oversight and responsibility for all risks associated with managing our assets and liabilities, and recommending limits to be included in our risk appetite and investment structure. These activities are closely tied to those related to the management of our funding and liquidity risks. Consequently, the Finance and Operations Committee of the Board of Directors is also responsible for periodically reviewing and approving our investment and asset and liability management policies and contingency funding plan. The Finance and Operations Committee as well as our Chief Financial Officer report to the full Board of Directors on matters of market risk management. 88 Table of Contents Political and Reputation Risk Management Political and reputation risk is the risk that changes in laws and regulations or actions affecting impacting our reputation could affect the profitability and sustainability of our business. Management proactively assesses and manages political and reputation risk. Our government relations team of employees manages our review and response to all formal inquiries from members of Congress, state legislators, and their staff, including providing targeted messaging that reinforces our public policy goals. We review and consider political and reputational risks on an integrated basis in connection with the risk management oversight activities conducted in the various aspects of our business on matters as diverse as the launch of new products and services, our credit underwriting activities and how we fund our operations. Our public relations, marketing and media teams constantly monitor our perception in print, electronic and social media; actively provide assistance and support to our customers and other constituencies and maintain and promote the value of our considerable corporate brand. Significant political and reputation risks are reported to and monitored by the Finance and Operations Committee of our Board of Directors. Our Legal, Government Relations and Compliance groups efforts are coordinated through our General Counsel and regularly meet and collaborate with our Media and Investor Relations teams to provide more coordinated monitoring and management of our political and reputational risks. Credit and Counterparty Risk Management Credit and counterparty risk is the risk of loss stemming from one partys failure to repay a loan or otherwise meet a contractual obligation. We have credit or counterparty risk exposure with borrowers and co borrowers with whom we have made Private Education Loans, the various counterparties with whom we have entered into derivative contracts, the various issuers with whom we make investments, and with several higher education institutions related to academic facilities loans secured by real estate. Credit and counterparty risks are overseen by our Chief Credit Officer, his staff and the internal risk management committee he chairs. Our Chief Credit Officer reports regularly to our Board of Directors, Finance and Operations and Audit Committees with respect to the various matters of which each have oversight. The credit risk related to Private Education Loans are managed within a credit risk infrastructure which includes (i) a well defined underwriting and collection policy framework; (ii) an ongoing monitoring and review process of portfolio segments and trends; (iii) assignment and management of credit authorities and responsibilities; and (iv) establishment of an allowance for loan losses that covers estimated losses based upon portfolio and economic analysis. Credit and counterparty risk related to derivative contracts is managed by reviewing counterparties for credit strength on an ongoing basis and via our credit policies, which place limits on the amount of exposure we may take with any one counterparty and, in most cases, require collateral to secure the position. The credit and counterparty risk associated with derivatives is measured based on the replacement cost should the counterparties with contracts in a gain position to the Company fail to perform under the terms of the contract. Compliance and Legal Risk Management Compliance risk is the operational risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, financial loss or damage to reputation resulting from failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, other regulatory requirements, or codes of conduct and other standards of self regulatory organizations applicable to us. Legal risk arises, in part, from the potential that unenforceable contracts, lawsuits or adverse judgments can disrupt or otherwise negatively affect our operations or condition. These risks are inherent in all of our businesses. Both compliance and legal risk are sub sets of operational risk but are recognized as a separate and complementary risk category given their importance in our business. We can be exposed to regulatory and compliance risk in key areas such as our private education lending, collections or loan servicing businesses if compliance with legal and regulatory requirements is not properly implemented, documented or tested, as well as when an oversight program does not include appropriate audit and control features. 89 Table of Contents The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors has oversight over the establishment of standards related to our monitoring and control of regulatory and compliance risks and the qualification of employees overseeing these risk management functions. The Audit Committee annually approves our Corporate Compliance Plan, has responsibility for considering significant breaches of our Code of Business Conduct and receives regular reports from executive management team members responsible for the regulatory and compliance risk management functions. Primary ownership and responsibility for regulatory and compliance risk is placed with the business segments to manage their specific regulatory and compliance risks. Our Compliance group supports these activities by providing extensive training, monitoring and testing of the processes, policies and procedures utilized by our business segments, maintaining consumer lending regulatory and information security policies and procedures, and working in close coordination with our Legal group. Our Corporate Compliance Committee serves as a regular internal forum where key compliance issues and risks are discussed and business, compliance and legal professional review testing of existing regulatory compliance procedures and approve new or revised procedures. Our Code of Business Conduct and the on going training our employees receive in many compliance areas provide a framework for our employees to conduct themselves with the highest integrity. We instill a risk conscious culture through communications, training, policies and procedures. We have strengthened the linkage between the management performance process and individual compensation to encourage employees to work toward corporate wide compliance goals. Common Stock The following table summarizes our common share repurchases and issuances. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Common stock repurchased 19,054,115 Average purchase price per share $ 15.77 $ $ Shares repurchased related to employee stock based compensation plans(1) 3,024,662 1,097,647 263,640 Average purchase price per share $ 15.71 $ 13.44 $ 20.29 Authority remaining at end of period for repurchases 38,841,923 38,841,923 Common shares issued 3,886,217 1,803,683 536,134 (1) Comprises shares withheld from stock option exercises and vesting of restricted stock for employees tax withholding obligations and shares tendered by employees to satisfy option exercise costs. The closing price of our common stock on December 31, 2011 was $13.40. Our shareholders have authorized the issuance of 1.125 billion shares of common stock (par value of $.20). At December 31, 2011, 509 million shares were issued and outstanding and 34.9 million shares were unissued but encumbered for outstanding stock options for employee compensation and remaining authority for stock based compensation plans. The stock based compensation plans are described in Note 11, Stock Based Compensation Plans and Arrangements. In March 2011, we retired 70 million shares of common stock held in treasury. This retirement decreased the balance in treasury stock by $1.9 billion, with corresponding decreases of $14 million in common stock and $1.9 billion in additional paid in capital. There was no impact to total equity from this transaction. During 2009, we converted $339 million of our Series C Preferred Stock to common stock. As part of this conversion, we delivered to the holders of the preferred stock: (1) approximately 17 million shares (the number 90 Table of Contents of common shares they would most likely receive if the preferred stock they held mandatorily converted to common shares in the fourth quarter of 2010) plus (2) a discounted amount of the preferred stock dividends the holders of the preferred stock would have received if they held the preferred stock through the mandatory conversion date. The accounting treatment for this conversion resulted in additional dividends recorded as part of preferred stock dividends for the year of approximately $53 million. On December 15, 2010, the mandatory conversion date, the remaining 810,370 shares of our Series C Preferred Stock were converted into 41 million shares of common stock. Dividend and Share Repurchase Program On June 17, 2011, September 16, 2011, and December 16, 2011, we paid a quarterly dividend of $.10 per share on our common stock, the first dividends paid since early 2007. In April 2011, we authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of outstanding common stock in open market transactions and terminated all previous authorizations. During the second and third quarters of 2011, we repurchased 19.1 million shares for an aggregate purchase price of $300 million. With this action, we fully utilized this share repurchase authorization. On January 26, 2012, we increased the quarterly dividend on our common stock to $.125 per share. The next such quarterly dividend will be paid on March 16, 2012. We also authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of outstanding common stock in open market transactions. 91 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis Our interest rate risk management seeks to limit the impact of short term movements in interest rates on our results of operations and financial position. The following tables summarize the potential effect on earnings over the next 12 months and the potential effect on fair values of balance sheet assets and liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010, based upon a sensitivity analysis performed by management assuming a hypothetical increase in market interest rates of 100 basis points and 300 basis points while funding spreads remain constant. Additionally, as it relates to the effect on earnings, a sensitivity analysis was performed assuming the funding index increases 25 basis points while holding the asset index constant, if the funding index is different than the asset index. The earnings sensitivity is applied only to financial assets and liabilities, including hedging instruments, that existed at the balance sheet date and does not take into account new assets, liabilities or hedging instruments that may arise in 2012. As of December 31, 2011Impact on Annual Earnings If: As of December 31, 2010Impact on Annual Earnings If: Interest Rates: FundingSpreads Interest Rates: FundingSpreads (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Increase100 BasisPoints Increase300 BasisPoints Increase25 BasisPoints(1) Increase100 BasisPoints Increase300 BasisPoints Increase25 BasisPoints(1) Effect on Earnings Change in pre tax net income before unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities $ 3 $ 61 $ (419 ) $ (129 ) $ (140 ) $ (368 ) Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities 493 814 (16 ) 131 82 (28 ) Increase in net income before taxes $ 496 $ 875 $ (435 ) $ 2 $ (58 ) $ (396 ) Increase in diluted earnings per common share $ .965 $ 1.702 $ (.846 ) $ .004 $ (0.110 ) $ (.746 ) (1) If an asset is not funded with the same index/frequency reset of the asset then it is assumed the funding index increases 25 basis points while holding the asset index constant. 92 Table of Contents At December 31, 2011 Interest Rates: Change fromIncrease of100 BasisPoints Change fromIncrease of300 BasisPoints (Dollars in millions) Fair Value $ % $ % Effect on Fair Values Assets Total FFELP Loans $ 134,196 $ (665 ) % $ (1,335 ) (1 )% Private Education Loans 33,968 Other earning assets 9,871 (1 ) Other assets 8,943 (639 ) (7 ) (1,420 ) (16 )% Total assets gain/(loss) $ 186,978 $ (1,304 ) (1 )% $ (2,756 ) (1 )% Liabilities Interest bearing liabilities $ 171,152 $ (730 ) % $ (2,002 ) (1 )% Other liabilities 4,128 (617 ) (15 ) (801 ) (19 ) Total liabilities (gain)/loss $ 175,280 $ (1,347 ) (1 )% $ (2,803 ) (2 )% At December 31, 2010 Interest Rates: Change fromIncrease of100 BasisPoints Change fromIncrease of300 BasisPoints (Dollars in millions) Fair Value $ % $ % Effect on Fair Values Assets Total FFELP Loans $ 147,163 $ (649 ) % $ (1,318 ) (1 )% Private Education Loans 30,949 Other earning assets 11,641 (1 ) (2 ) Other assets 9,449 (565 ) (6 ) (996 ) (11 )% Total assets gain/(loss) $ 199,202 $ (1,215 ) (1 )% $ (2,316 ) (1 )% Liabilities Interest bearing liabilities $ 187,959 $ (704 ) % $ (1,938 ) (1 )% Other liabilities 3,136 (217 ) (7 ) 257 8 Total liabilities (gain)/loss $ 191,095 $ (921 ) % $ (1,681 ) (1 )% A primary objective in our funding is to minimize our sensitivity to changing interest rates by generally funding our floating rate student loan portfolio with floating rate debt. However, due to the ability of some FFELP loans to earn Floor Income, we can have a fixed versus floating mismatch in funding if the student loan earns at the fixed borrower rate and the funding remains floating. In addition, we can have a mismatch in the index (including the frequency of reset) of floating rate debt versus floating rate assets. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, certain FFELP Loans were earning Floor Income and we locked in a portion of that Floor Income through the use of Floor Income contracts. The result of these hedging transactions was to convert a portion of the fixed rate nature of student loans to variable rate, and to fix the relative spread between the student loan asset rate and the variable rate liability. In the preceding tables, under the scenario where interest rates increase 100 and 300 basis points, the change in pre tax net income before the unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities is primarily due to the impact of (i) our unhedged loans being in a fixed rate mode due to Floor Income, while being funded with 93 Table of Contents variable debt in low interest rate environments; and (ii) a portion of our variable assets being funded with fixed rate liabilities and equity. Item (i) will generally cause income to decrease when interest rates increase from a low interest rate environment, whereas item (ii) will generally offset this decrease. The variance in the change in pre tax income before unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives when comparing the 2011 analysis versus the 2010 analysis was the result of the SLC acquisition at December 31, 2010. In the 2010 analysis, the assets from the acquisition that earn Floor Income were reflected in the analysis at December 31, 2010, however, the Floor Income Contracts hedging these assets were not entered into until the first half of 2011. Therefore the 2010 analysis reflects a large decrease in this line from the loss of the unhedged Floor Income as rates were increased. In the 2011 analysis, this Floor Income had been hedged and the increase in the line resulted from a portion of our variable assets being funded with fixed rate debt. The large increase in the unrealized gains on derivatives and hedging activities line in the 2011 analysis versus the 2010 analysis, primarily is due to the impact of the additional Floor Income Contracts discussed above. Under the scenario in the tables above labeled Asset and Funding Index Mismatches, the main driver of the decrease in pre tax income before unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities is the result of LIBOR based debt funding commercial paper indexed assets. See Asset and Liability Funding Gap of this Item 7A for a further discussion. Increasing the spread between indices will also impact the unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives and hedging activities as it relates to basis swaps that hedge the mismatch between the asset and funding indices. In addition to interest rate risk addressed in the preceding tables, we are also exposed to risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. Foreign currency exchange risk is primarily the result of foreign currency denominated debt issued by us. When we issue foreign denominated corporate unsecured and securitization debt, our policy is to use cross currency interest rate swaps to swap all foreign currency denominated debt payments (fixed and floating) to U.S. dollar LIBOR using a fixed exchange rate. In the tables above, there would be an immaterial impact on earnings if exchange rates were to decrease or increase, due to the terms of the hedging instrument and hedged items matching. The balance sheet interest bearing liabilities would be affected by a change in exchange rates; however, the change would be materially offset by the cross currency interest rate swaps in other assets or other liabilities. In the current economic environment, volatility in the spread between spot and forward foreign exchange rates has resulted in material mark to market impacts to current period earnings which have not been factored into the above analysis. The earnings impact is noncash, and at maturity of the instruments the cumulative mark to market impact will be zero. Asset and Liability Funding Gap The tables below present our assets and liabilities (funding) arranged by underlying indices as of December 31, 2011. In the following GAAP presentation, the funding gap only includes derivatives that qualify as effective hedges (those derivatives which are reflected in net interest margin, as opposed to those reflected in the gains (losses) on derivatives and hedging activities, net line on the consolidated statements of income). The difference between the asset and the funding is the funding gap for the specified index. This represents our exposure to interest rate risk in the form of basis risk and repricing risk, which is the risk that the different indices may reset at different frequencies or may not move in the same direction or at the same magnitude. Management analyzes interest rate risk and in doing so includes all derivatives that are economically hedging our debt whether they qualify as effective hedges or not (Core Earnings basis). Accordingly, we are also presenting the asset and liability funding gap on a Core Earnings basis in the table that follows the GAAP presentation. 94 Table of Contents GAAP Basis Index (Dollars in billions) Frequency ofVariableResets Assets Funding(2) FundingGap 3 month Commercial paper(1) daily $ 129.6 $ $ 129.6 3 month Treasury bill weekly 7.6 7.6 Prime annual .7 .7 Prime quarterly 4.9 4.9 Prime monthly 21.8 21.8 Prime daily 2.8 (2.8 ) PLUS Index annual .5 .5 3 month LIBOR daily 3 month LIBOR quarterly 120.3 (120.3 ) 1 month LIBOR monthly 9.6 16.9 (7.3 ) CMT/CPI Index monthly/quarterly 1.6 (1.6 ) Non Discrete reset(3) monthly 32.8 (32.8 ) Non Discrete reset(4) daily/weekly 9.8 3.5 6.3 Fixed Rate(5) 8.8 15.4 (6.6 ) Total $ 193.3 $ 193.3 $ (1) See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis FFELP Loans Segment FFELP Loans Net Interest Margin for discussion regarding Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012 and the effect it will have on the FFELP student lender payment index in 2012. (2) Funding includes all derivatives that management considers economic hedges of interest rate risk and reflects how we internally manage our interest rate exposure. (3) Funding consists of auction rate securities, the ABCP Facilities, the ED Conduit Program facility and the FHLB DM facility. (4) Assets include restricted and unrestricted cash equivalents and other overnight type instruments. Funding includes retail and other deposits and the obligation to return cash collateral held related to derivatives exposures. (5) Assets include receivables and other assets (including goodwill and acquired intangibles). Funding includes other liabilities and stockholders equity (excluding series B Preferred Stock). The Funding Gaps in the above table are primarily interest rate mismatches in short term indices between our assets and liabilities. We address this issue typically through the use of basis swaps that typically convert quarterly reset three month LIBOR to other indices that are more correlated to our asset indices. These basis swaps do not qualify as effective hedges and as a result the effect on the funding index is not included in our interest margin and is therefore excluded from the GAAP presentation. 95 Table of Contents Core Earnings Basis Index (Dollars in billions) Frequency ofVariableResets Assets Funding(2) FundingGap 3 month Commercial paper(1) daily $ 129.6 $ $ 129.6 3 month Treasury bill weekly 7.6 1.8 5.8 Prime annual .7 .7 Prime quarterly 4.9 4.9 Prime monthly 21.8 4.5 17.3 Prime daily 2.8 (2.8 ) PLUS Index annual .5 .5 3 month LIBOR daily 20.2 (20.2 ) 3 month LIBOR quarterly 79.0 (79.0 ) 1 month LIBOR monthly 9.6 26.1 (16.5 ) 1 month LIBOR daily 8.0 (8.0 ) Non Discrete reset(3) monthly 32.9 (32.9 ) Non Discrete reset(4) daily/weekly 9.8 3.5 6.3 Fixed Rate(5) 6.1 11.8 (5.7 ) Total $ 190.6 $ 190.6 $ (1) See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis FFELP Loans Segment FFELP Loans Net Interest Margin for discussion regarding Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012 and the effect it will have on the FFELP student lender payment index in 2012. (2) Funding includes all derivatives that management considers economic hedges of interest rate risk and reflects how we internally manage our interest rate exposure. (3) Funding consists of auction rate securities, the ABCP Facilities, the ED Conduit Program facility and the FHLB DM facility. (4) Assets include restricted and unrestricted cash equivalents and other overnight type instruments. Funding includes retail and other deposits and the obligation to return cash collateral held related to derivatives exposures. (5) Assets include receivables and other assets (including goodwill and acquired intangibles). Funding includes other liabilities and stockholders equity (excluding series B Preferred Stock). We use interest rate swaps and other derivatives to achieve our risk management objectives. Our asset liability management strategy is to match assets with debt (in combination with derivatives) that have the same underlying index and reset frequency or when economical, have interest rate characteristics that we believe are highly correlated. For example, a large portion of our daily reset 3 month commercial paper indexed assets are funded with liabilities indexed to LIBOR. The use of funding with index types and reset frequencies that are different from our assets exposes us to interest rate risk in the form of basis and repricing risk. This could result in our cost of funds not moving in the same direction or with the same magnitude as the yield on our assets. While we believe this risk is low, as all of these indices are short term with rate movements that are highly correlated over a long period of time, market disruptions can lead to a temporary divergence between indices resulting in a negative impact to our earnings. 96 Table of Contents Weighted Average Life The following table reflects the weighted average life for our earning assets and liabilities at December 31, 2011. (Averages in Years) Weighted AverageLife Earning assets Student loans 7.6 Other loans 6.3 Cash and investments 0.1 Total earning assets 7.2 Borrowings Short term borrowings 0.3 Long term borrowings 7.0 Total borrowings 5.9 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Operating Data: Net interest income $ 3,529 $ 3,479 $ 1,723 $ 1,365 $ 1,588 Net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations, net of tax $ 600 $ 597 $ 544 $ 2 $ (938 ) Discontinued operations, net of tax 33 (67 ) (220 ) (215 ) 42 Net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation $ 633 $ 530 $ 324 $ (213 ) $ (896 ) Basic earnings (loss) per common share attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations $ 1.13 $ 1.08 $ .85 $ (.23 ) $ (2.36 ) Discontinued operations .06 (.14 ) (.47 ) (.46 ) .10 Total $ 1.19 $ .94 $ .38 $ (.69 ) $ (2.26 ) Diluted earnings (loss) per common share attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations $ 1.12 $ 1.08 $ .85 $ (.23 ) $ (2.36 ) Discontinued operations .06 (.14 ) (.47 ) (.46 ) .10 Total $ 1.18 $ .94 $ .38 $ (.69 ) $ (2.26 ) Dividends per common share attributable to SLM Corporation common shareholders $ .30 $ $ $ $ .25 Return on common stockholders equity 14 % 13 % 5 % (9 )% (22 )% Net interest margin 1.85 1.82 1.05 .93 1.26 Return on assets .33 .28 .20 (.14 ) (.71 ) Dividend payout ratio 25 (11 ) Average equity/average assets 2.54 2.47 2.96 3.45 3.51 Balance Sheet Data: Student loans, net $ 174,420 $ 184,305 $ 143,807 $ 144,802 $ 124,153 Total assets 193,345 205,307 169,985 168,768 155,565 Total borrowings 183,966 197,159 161,443 160,158 147,046 Total SLM Corporation stockholders equity 5,243 5,012 5,279 4,999 5,224 Book value per common share 9.20 8.44 8.05 7.03 7.84 Other Data: Off balance sheet securitized student loans, net $ $ $ 32,638 $ 35,591 $ 39,423 24 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. This discussion and analysis also contains forward looking statements and should also be read in conjunction with the disclosures and information contained in Forward Looking and Cautionary Statements and Item 1A Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Through this discussion and analysis, we intend to provide the reader with some narrative context for how our management views our consolidated financial statements, additional context within which to assess our operating results, and information on the quality and variability of our earnings, liquidity and cash flows. Overview Our primary business is to originate, service and collect loans we make to students and or their parents to finance the cost of their education. The core of our marketing strategy is to generate student loan originations by promoting our products on campus through the financial aid office and through direct marketing to students and their families. We also provide servicing, loan default aversion and defaulted loan collection services for loans owned by other institutions, including ED. We also provide processing capabilities to educational institutions, 529 college savings plan program management services and a consumer savings network. In addition we are the largest holder, servicer and collector of loans made under FFELP, a program that was discontinued in 2010. We monitor and assess our ongoing operations and results based on the following four reportable segments: (1) Consumer Lending, (2) Business Services, (3) FFELP Loans and (4) Other. Consumer Lending Segment In this segment, we originate, acquire, finance and service Private Education Loans. The Private Education Loans we make are largely to bridge the gap between the cost of higher education and the amount funded through financial aid, federal loans or borrowers resources. In this segment, we earn net interest income on the Private Education Loan portfolio (after provision for loan losses) as well as servicing fees, primarily late fees. As of December 31, 2011, we had $36.3 billion of Private Education Loans outstanding. In 2011, we originated $2.7 billion of Private Education Loans, up 19 percent from $2.3 billion in the prior year. Business Services Segment In our Business Services segment we provide loan servicing to our FFELP Loans segment, ED and other third parties. We provide servicing, default aversion and contingency collections work on behalf of ED, Guarantors of FFELP Loans, and other institutions. Our Campus Solutions business provides comprehensive transaction processing solutions and associated technology to college financial aid offices and students to streamline the financial aid process. We provide 529 college savings plan account asset servicing and other transaction processing activities. We offer, tuition, renters and student health insurance to college students and higher education institutions. FFELP Loans Segment Our FFELP Loans segment consists of our $138 billion FFELP Loan portfolio and underlying debt and capital funding these loans. Because we no longer originate FFELP Loans the portfolio is in runoff and is expected to amortize over approximately the next 20 years with a weighted average remaining life of 7.6 years. 25 Table of Contents We actively seek to acquire FFELP Loan portfolios to leverage our servicing scale and expertise to generate incremental earnings and cash flow. Of our total FFELP Loan portfolio, 94 percent was funded with non recourse, long term debt; 76 percent of our FFELP Loan portfolio being funded to term by securitization trusts, 15 percent funded through the ED Conduit Program which terminates on January 19, 2014, and 3 percent funded in our multi year ABCP facility. This segment is expected to generate a stable net interest margin and significant amounts of cash as the FFELP portfolio amortizes. Other Our Other segment primarily consists of the financial results related to activities of our holding company, including the repurchase of debt, the corporate liquidity portfolio and all overhead. We also include results from smaller wind down and discontinued operations within this segment. Key Financial Measures Our operating results are primarily driven by net interest income from our student loan portfolios (which includes financing costs), provision for loan losses, the revenues and expenses generated by our service businesses, and gains and losses on loan sales and debt repurchases. We manage and assess the performance of each business segment separately as each is focused on different customers and each derives its revenue from different activities and services. A brief summary of our key financial measures are listed below. Net Interest Income The most significant portion of our earnings is generated by the spread earned between the interest income we receive on assets in our student loan portfolios and the interest expense of funding these loans. We report these earnings as net interest income. Net interest income in our Consumer Lending and FFELP Loans segments are driven by significantly different factors. Consumer Lending Segment Net interest income in this segment is determined by the Private Education Loan asset yields, which are determined by interest rates established by us based upon the credit of the borrower and any co borrower and the level of price competition in the Private Education Loan market less our cost of funds. Our Private Education Loans earn variable rate interest and are funded primarily with variable rate liabilities. The Consumer Lending segments Core Earnings net interest margin was 4.1 percent in 2011 compared with 3.9 percent in 2010. Our cost of funds can be influenced by a number of factors including the quality of the loans in our portfolio, our corporate credit rating, general economic conditions, investor demand for Private Education Loan ABS and corporate unsecured debt and competition in the deposit market. At December 31, 2011, 56 percent of our Private Education Loan portfolio was funded with non recourse, long term debt; 51 percent of our Private Education Loans being funded to term by securitization trusts. FFELP Loans Segment Net interest income will be the primary source of cash flow generated by this segment over the next 20 years as this portfolio runs off. Historically, interest earned on our FFELP Loans was primarily indexed to commercial paper rates and our cost of funds was indexed to three month LIBOR, creating the possibility of significant basis and repricing risk related to these assets. Recent changes to the applicable law will allow us, beginning in the second quarter of 2012, to index interest earned to one month LIBOR rather than commercial paper rates, significantly reducing basis and repricing risk on $130 billion of our FFELP Loans. The FFELP Loans segments Core Earnings net interest margin was 0.98 percent in 2011 compared with 0.93 percent in 2010. The major source of variability in net interest income is expected to be Floor Income. Pursuant to the terms of the FFELP, certain FFELP Loans, in certain situations, continue to earn interest at the stated fixed rate of 26 Table of Contents interest even if underlying debt costs decrease. We refer to this additional spread income as Floor Income. This Floor Income can be volatile as rates on underlying debt move up and down. We generally hedge this risk by selling Floor Income Contracts which lock in the value of the Floor Income over the term of the contract. Additional cash flow should be generated within this segment as many of our secured financing vehicles are over collateralized, creating the potential for additional cash flow to be distributed to us over time as the loans amortize. Provisions for Loan Losses Management estimates and maintains an allowance for loan losses generally at a level sufficient to cover charge offs expected over the next two years, plus additional allowance to cover life of loan expected losses for loans classified as a troubled debt restructuring. The provision is an income statement item that reduces segment revenues. Generally the allowance rises when charge offs are expected to increase and falls when charge offs are expected to decline. Our loss exposure and resulting provision for losses is smaller for FFELP Loans than for Private Education Loans because we bear a maximum of 3 percent loss exposure on our FFELP Loans whereas we bear the full credit exposure on our Private Education Loans. Our provision for losses in our FFELP Loans segment was $86 million in 2011 compared with $98 million in 2010. Losses in our Consumer Lending segment are primarily driven by risk characteristics such as school type, loan status (in school, grace, forbearance, repayment and delinquency), loan seasoning (number of months in active repayment for which a scheduled payment was due), underwriting criteria (e.g., credit scores), existence or absence of a cosigner and the current economic environment. Our provision for loan losses in our Consumer Lending segment was $1.2 billion in 2011 compared with $1.3 billion in 2010. Charge Offs and Delinquencies When we conclude a loan is uncollectable, the unrecoverable portion of the loan is charged against the allowance for loan losses in the applicable lending segment. Information regarding charge offs provides relevant information over time with respect to the actual performance of our loan portfolios as compared against the provisions for loan losses on those portfolios. Management focuses on the overall level of delinquencies as well as the progression of loans from early to late stage delinquency. The FFELP segment charge off rate was 0.08 percent of loans in repayment in 2011 compared with 0.11 percent in 2010. The Consumer Lending segments charge off rate was 3.7 percent of loans in repayment in 2011 compared with 5.0 percent of loans in repayment in 2010. Delinquencies are a very important indicator of the potential future credit performance. Private Education Loan delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment decreased from 10.6 percent at December 31, 2010 to 10.1 percent at December 31, 2011. Servicing and Contingency Revenues We earn servicing revenues from servicing student loans, Campus Solutions, and from account asset servicing related to 529 college savings plans. We earn contingency revenue related to default aversion and contingency collections work we perform primarily on federal loans. The fees we recognize are primarily driven by our success in collecting or rehabilitating defaulted loans, the number of transactions processed and the underlying volume of loans we are servicing on behalf of others. Other Income / (Loss) In managing our loan portfolios and funding sources we periodically engage in sales of loans and the repurchase of our outstanding debt. In each case, depending on market conditions, we may incur gains or losses from these transactions that affect our results from operations. 27 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The operating expenses reported for our Consumer Lending and Business Services segments are those that are directly attributable to the generation of revenues by those segments. The operating expenses for the FFELP Loans segment primarily represent an intercompany servicing charge from the Business Services segment and do not reflect our actual underlying costs incurred to service the loans. We have included corporate overhead expenses and certain information technology costs (together referred to as Overhead) in our Other segment rather than allocate those expenses by segment. These overhead expenses include costs related to executive management, the board of directors, accounting, finance, legal, human resources, stock based compensation expense and certain information technology costs related to infrastructure and operations. Core Earnings We report financial results on a GAAP basis and also present certain Core Earnings performance measures. Our management, equity investors, credit rating agencies and debt capital providers use these Core Earnings measures to monitor our business performance. Core Earnings is the basis in which we prepare our segment disclosures as required by GAAP under ASC 280 Segment Reporting (see Note 16 Segment Reporting). For a full explanation of the contents and limitations of Core Earnings, see Core Earnings Definition and Limitations of this Item 7. 2011 Summary of Results We continue to operate in a challenging macroeconomic environment marked by high unemployment and uncertainty which contributes added uncertainty to Private Education Loan repayment and default patterns. On July 1, 2010, the HCERA eliminated FFELP Loan originations, a major source of our net income. All federal loans to students are now made through the DSLP and as discussed above, we no longer originate FFELP Loans. In addition, on July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd Frank Act that represents a comprehensive change to banking laws, imposing significant new regulation on almost every aspect of the U.S. financial services industry. A discussion of HCERA and the Dodd Frank Act can be found in Item 1 Business and in Item 1A Risk Factors in our 2011 Form 10 K. Despite this environment, we were able to achieve significant accomplishments during 2011 as discussed below. GAAP 2011 net income was $633 million ($1.18 diluted earnings per share), versus net income of $530 million ($.94 diluted earnings per share) in the prior year. The changes in GAAP net income are driven by the same Core Earnings items discussed below as well as changes in mark to market unrealized gains and losses on derivative contracts and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets that are recognized in GAAP but not in core earnings results. In 2011, we had a $623 million increase in unrealized mark to market losses on derivative contracts and $660 million less goodwill and intangible asset impairment compared with 2010. Core Earnings for the year were $977 million ($1.83 diluted earnings per share) compared to $1.03 billion ($1.92 diluted earnings per share) in 2010. Core Earnings were down due to a decrease in gains on loan sales and debt repurchases from the prior year ($574 million or $.69 per diluted share in 2010). Excluding these gains on loan sales and debt repurchases in 2010, Core Earnings were up $521 million year over year due to improvements in net interest income, loan loss provision, expenses and discontinued operations. During 2011, we raised $2 billion of unsecured debt and issued $2.4 billion of FFELP ABS and $2.1 billion of Private Education Loan ABS. We also repurchased $894 million of debt and realized Core Earnings gains of $64 million in 2011, compared with $4.9 billion and $317 million in 2010. 28 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter 2011, we also closed a $3.4 billion Private Education Loan asset backed commercial paper facility that matures in January 2014. This facility was used to finance the call of Private Education Loan asset backed securities at significant discounts to the par value. We also achieved a key management objective of again being able to return capital to our shareholders. During the second and third quarters of 2011, we repurchased 19.1 million common shares on the open market as part of our previously announced $300 million share repurchase program authorization. We have fully utilized this authorization. We declared and paid a $.10 per share dividend during the second, third and fourth quarters of 2011. 2011 Management Objectives In 2011 we set out five major goals to create shareholder value. They were: (1) reduce our operating expenses; (2) prudently grow Consumer Lending segment assets and revenue; (3) increase Business Services segment revenue; (4) maximize cash flows from FFELP Loans; and (5) reinstate dividends and or share repurchases. We believe we achieved each of these objectives in 2011. The following describes our performance relative to each of our 2011 goals. Reduce Operating Expenses The elimination of FFELP by HCERA greatly reduced our revenue generating capabilities. In 2010 we originated $14 billion of loans, 84 percent of them FFELP Loans; in 2011 we originated $2.7 billion of new loans, all of them Private Education Loans. As a result of the decline in our FFELP related revenue, we determined we must effectively match our cost structure to our ongoing business. As such, we set a goal of having a quarterly operating expense of $250 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 (by comparison, our 2010 fourth quarter operating expenses were $308 million). We achieved this goal as our fourth quarter 2011 operating expenses were $243 million. Prudently Grow Consumer Lending Segment Assets and Revenue Successfully growing Private Education Loan lending is the key component of our long term plan to grow shareholder value. We achieved this goal by originating increasing numbers of high quality Private Education Loans, with higher net interest margins and lower charge offs and provision for loan losses. Originations were 19 percent higher in 2011 compared with 2010 with average FICO and cosigner rates higher compared with the prior year. Core Earnings net interest margin increased from 3.9 percent to 4.1 percent. Charge offs decreased to 3.7 percent of loans in repayment from 5.0 percent in 2010. Provision for loan loss decreased to $1.18 billion from $1.3 billion in 2010. Increase Business Services Segment Revenue Our Business Services segment comprises several businesses with customers related to FFELP that will experience revenue declines and several businesses with customers that provide growth opportunities. Our growth businesses are ED servicing, ED collections, other school based asset type servicing and collections, Campus Solutions, Sallie Mae Insurance Services, transaction processing and 529 college savings plan account asset servicing. We achieved this goal as our Business Services segment revenue increased from $1.3 billion in 2010 to $1.4 billion in 2011. Our allocation of new customer loans awarded for servicing under our ED Servicing Contract increased from 22 percent to 26 percent for the current contract year ending August 15, 2012. The increase was driven primarily by our top ranking for default prevention performance results. We are servicing approximately 3.6 million accounts under the ED Servicing Contract as of December 31, 2011. Campus Solutions added 44 new refund disbursement clients in 2011. We also announced a Sallie Mae Bank No Fee Student Checking Account with Debit as an enhanced refund disbursement choice for schools and students. This new option complements existing Campus Solutions refund disbursement choices that include electronic deposit to the bank account of the students choice, debit card or a check. 29 Table of Contents Assets under management in 529 college savings plans total $37.5 billion and grew 9 percent year over year. We recently were selected to continue as the program manager for New Yorks 529 College Savings Program under a seven year contract, which is currently being negotiated. New York has the largest direct 529 plan in the country. We launched Sallie Mae Insurance Services in 2011, offering college students and higher education institutions tuition, renters and student health insurance. We acquired SC Services & Associates, Inc., a provider of collections services to local governments and courts to enhance and complement our other contingency collection businesses. Maximize Cash Flows from FFELP Loans We have a $138 billion portfolio of FFELP Loans that is expected to generate significant amounts of cash flow and earnings in the coming years. We planned to improve our net interest margin, further minimize income volatility and opportunistically purchase additional FFELP Loan portfolios such as the portfolio we purchased at the end of 2010. We achieved this goal in 2011 by acquiring $1.6 billion of FFELP loans and improving our net interest margin from 93 basis points in 2010 to 98 basis points in 2011. Reinstate Dividends and or Share Repurchases We achieved our objective of either paying dividends or repurchasing shares, or both by the second half of 2011. Beginning in June, we began to pay quarterly dividends of $.10 per share on our common stock, the first since 2007. In April 2011, we authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of outstanding common stock in open market transactions and terminated all previous authorizations. During the second and third quarters of 2011, we paid $300 million to repurchase 19.1 million common shares on the open market. 2012 Outlook We expect the operating strength we demonstrated in 2011 to continue in 2012. We plan to increase Core Earnings primarily through improving Private Education Loan portfolio performance and lower operating expenses. Loan originations are also expected to increase in 2012. We expect to remain an active participant in the capital markets in 2012. Our term ABS activity will feature multiple transactions backed by both FFELP collateral, primarily reducing the ED Conduit Facility, as well as Private Education Loan collateral. We will remain an opportunistic issuer in the unsecured debt markets primarily to facilitate asset liability management activities. Recent transactions in all of the above mentioned categories have been met with strong demand and provide term financing which is a key component of our business model. Recognizing the strong financial position we are in, the Board of Directors approved a 25 percent increase in our quarterly dividend and a $500 million share repurchase program in January 2012. Despite this significant return of capital to our shareholders from earnings, we expect to end 2012 with a stronger balance sheet and better capital ratios. Credit losses within our Private Education Loan portfolio are primarily driven by the quality of loans entering repayment, improving underlying portfolio quality, the quality of new originations and the general economic environment. The fourth quarter 2011 repayment cohort, at $1.5 billion, was the smallest in the last five years, and had better FICO scores and higher cosigner rates than in previous years which should result in lower future losses. The underlying portfolio has continued to improve with 62 percent of the loans cosigned, less than 10 percent non traditional and over 72 percent of our customers currently in repayment having made more than 12 payments. In addition, the loans originated in 2011 had an average FICO score of 748 and were 91 percent cosigned; these statistics are our highest ever for a loan origination cohort. As a result, we believe that charge offs and provision for loan losses will continue their downward trend. 30 Table of Contents 2012 Management Objectives In 2012 we have set out five major goals to create shareholder value. They are: (1) prudently grow Consumer Lending segment assets and revenue; (2) sustain Business Services segment revenue; (3) maximize cash flows from FFELP Loans; (4) reduce our operating expenses; and (5) improve our financial strength. Here is how we plan to achieve these objectives: Prudently Grow Consumer Lending Segment Assets and Revenues We will continue to pursue managed growth in our Private Education Loan portfolio in 2012, currently targeting $3.2 billion in new originations for the year compared to $2.7 billion in 2011. We will also be increasing our efforts to improve our return on these assets projecting even lower charge off rates and provision for loan losses, continuing to build on the improvements we have been demonstrating in these measures since 2009. Sustain Business Services Segment Revenue Our Business Services segment generates the vast majority of its revenue from servicing and collecting on our FFELP Loan portfolio and FFELP Loans for others. As a result of the elimination of FFELP in 2010, servicing and collection revenues derived from FFELP related sources are in decline. In 2012 we will work to offset these declines through two primary means pursuing additional growth and expansion of our non FFELP related servicing and collection businesses and seeking to increase the FFELP related loan servicing and collection work we do for third parties. In 2012 we are targeting significant growth in the number of customers we service for ED under our ED servicing and collection contracts, as well as in the total assets under management in our 529 college savings plans. We will explore both complementary and diversified strategies to expand demand for our services in and beyond the student loan market. We will also more aggressively seek to leverage our existing FFELP servicing platforms to be able to provide lower cost FFELP servicing to others while increasing segment revenues from these sources. Maximize Cash Flows from FFELP Loans In 2012 we will continue to focus on opportunistically purchasing additional FFELP Loan portfolios from other lenders. As cash flows from our existing FFELP Loans decline over coming years, it also becomes increasingly important that we actively manage and continue to reduce operating and overhead costs attributable to the maintenance and management of this segment. Continuing to reduce these operating and overhead costs will also increase net income for our Business Services segment. Reduce Operating Expenses We achieved our 2011 management objective of having a quarterly operating expense of $250 million or less in the fourth quarter of 2011. In 2012 we will strive to sustain or improve on this quarterly run rate for the full fiscal year. Improve Our Financial Strength In January 2012 we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.125 per share and a new $500 million common share repurchase program. Of equal note, it is managements objective for 2012 to provide these increased shareholder distributions while at the same time ending 2012 with a balance sheet and capital positions as strong or stronger than those with which we ended in 2011. 31 Table of Contents Results of Operations We present the results of operations first on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. As discussed earlier, we have four business segments, Consumer Lending, Business Services, FFELP Loans and Other. Since these segments operate in distinct business environments, the discussion following the Consolidated Earnings Summary is presented on a segment basis and is shown on a Core Earnings basis. See Item 1 Business Business Segments for further discussion on the components of each segment. 32 Table of Contents GAAP Statements of Income Increase (Decrease) Years Ended December 31, 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2011 2010 2009 $ % $ % Interest income FFELP Loans $ 3,461 $ 3,345 $ 3,094 $ 116 3 % $ 251 8 % Private Education Loans 2,429 2,353 1,582 76 3 771 49 Other loans 21 30 56 (9 ) (30 ) (26 ) (46 ) Cash and investments 19 26 26 (7 ) (27 ) Total interest income 5,930 5,754 4,758 176 3 996 21 Total interest expense 2,401 2,275 3,035 126 6 (760 ) (25 ) Net interest income 3,529 3,479 1,723 50 1 1,756 102 Less: provisions for loan losses 1,295 1,419 1,119 (124 ) (9 ) 300 27 Net interest income after provisions for loan losses 2,234 2,060 604 174 8 1,456 241 Other income (loss): Securitization servicing and Residual Interest revenue 295 (295 ) (100 ) Gains (losses) on loans and investments, net (35 ) 325 284 (360 ) (111 ) 41 14 Losses on derivative and hedging activities, net (959 ) (361 ) (604 ) (598 ) 166 243 (40 ) Servicing revenue 381 405 440 (24 ) (6 ) (35 ) (8 ) Contingency revenue 333 330 294 3 1 36 12 Gains on debt repurchases 38 317 536 (279 ) (88 ) (219 ) (41 ) Other income 68 6 88 62 1,033 (82 ) (93 ) Total other income (loss) (174 ) 1,022 1,333 (1,196 ) (117 ) (311 ) (23 ) Expenses: Operating expenses 1,100 1,208 1,043 (108 ) (9 ) 165 16 Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment and amortization expense 24 699 76 (675 ) (97 ) 623 820 Restructuring expenses 9 85 10 (76 ) (89 ) 75 750 Total expenses 1,133 1,992 1,129 (859 ) (43 ) 863 76 Income from continuing operations, before income tax expense 927 1,090 808 (163 ) (15 ) 282 35 Income tax expense 328 493 264 (165 ) (33 ) 229 87 Net income from continuing operations 599 597 544 2 53 10 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 33 (67 ) (220 ) 100 149 153 (70 ) Net income 632 530 324 102 19 206 64 Less: net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (1 ) (1 ) (100 ) Net income attributable to SLM Corporation 633 530 324 103 19 206 64 Preferred stock dividends 18 72 146 (54 ) (75 ) (74 ) (51 ) Net income attributable to SLM Corporation common stock $ 615 $ 458 $ 178 $ 157 34 % $ 280 157 % Basic earnings (loss) per common share attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations $ 1.13 $ 1.08 $ .85 $ .05 5 % $ .23 27 % Discontinued operations .06 (.14 ) (.47 ) .20 143 .33 (70 ) Total $ 1.19 $ .94 $ .38 $ .25 27 % $ .56 147 % Diluted earnings (loss) per common share attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations $ 1.12 $ 1.08 $ .85 $ .04 4 % $ .23 27 % Discontinued operations .06 (.14 ) (.47 ) .20 143 .33 (70 ) Total $ 1.18 $ .94 $ .38 $ .24 26 % $ .56 147 % Dividends per common share $ .30 $ $ $ .30 100 % $ % 33 Table of Contents Consolidated Earnings Summary GAAP basis Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2010 For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, net income was $633 million, or $1.18 diluted earnings per common share, and $530 million, or $.94 diluted earnings per common share, respectively. The increase in net income for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared with the prior year period was primarily due to $660 million of goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, which were partially non tax deductible, recorded in the year ago period, a $124 million decrease in the provisions for loan losses, a $100 million increase in income from discontinued operations and $108 million of lower operating expenses. These improvements were partially offset by a $598 million increase in net losses on derivative and hedging activities, a $279 million decrease in gains on debt repurchases and a $360 million decrease in net gains on loans and investments. The primary contributors to each component of net income for the current year compared with the year ago period are as follows: Net interest income increased by $50 million primarily from incremental net interest income earned on $25 billion of securitized FFELP loans acquired on December 31, 2010. Provisions for loan losses decreased by $124 million, as the $124 million of additional provision related to the implementation of new accounting guidance for troubled debt restructurings (TDRs) in the third quarter of 2011 (see Consumer Lending Segment Private Education Loans Provision for Loan Losses and Charge offs for further discussion), was more than offset by overall improvements in credit quality and delinquency and charge off trends. Gains on loans and investments, net, declined $360 million as a result of a $321 million gain recognized in the fourth quarter of 2010 from the sale of FFELP Loans to ED as part of the EDs Loan Purchase Commitment Program (the Purchase Program) which ended in 2010. Also, in 2011 we recorded $26 million of impairment on certain aircraft leases which were primarily related to leveraged lease investments with American Airlines, which filed for bankruptcy in the fourth quarter of 2011. 2011 also has a $9 million mark to market loss related to classifying our entire $12 million portfolio of non U.S. dollar denominated student loans as held for sale. Net losses on derivatives and hedging activities increased by $598 million primarily due to interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations, affecting the valuations of our Floor Income Contracts, basis swaps and foreign currency hedges during the period. Valuations of derivative instruments vary based upon many factors including changes in interest rates, credit risk, foreign currency fluctuations and other market factors. As a result, net gains and losses on derivatives and hedging activities may vary significantly in future periods. Servicing revenue decreased by $24 million primarily due to the end of FFELP in 2010, thereby eliminating Guarantor issuance fees we earn on new FFELP Loans. Outstanding FFELP Loans on which we earn additional fees also declined. Gains on debt repurchases decreased $279 million as we repurchased less debt in the current period. Debt repurchase activity will fluctuate based on market fundamentals and our liability management strategy. Other income increased by $62 million primarily as a result of a $25 million gain from the termination and replacement of a credit card affiliation contract and $27 million from an increase in foreign currency translation gains. The foreign currency translation gains relate to a portion of our foreign currency denominated debt that does not receive hedge accounting treatment. These gains were partially offset by losses on derivative and hedging activities, net line item in the consolidated statements of income related to the derivatives used to economically hedge these debt investments. Operating expenses decreased $108 million primarily as a result of our on going cost savings initiative. 34 Table of Contents Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment and amortization expense declined $675 million compared with the prior year primarily due to the $660 million impairment recognized in the third quarter of 2010 in response to the passage of the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (HCERA), which resulted in the elimination of the FFELP and significantly reduced the future earnings for several of our reporting units. Restructuring expenses decreased $76 million primarily as a result of the substantial completion of our plan for restructuring initiated in response to legislation ending FFELP in 2010. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were 35 percent and 45 percent, respectively. The improvement in the effective tax rate was primarily driven by the impact of non tax deductible goodwill impairments recorded in 2010. Net income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $33 million compared with a net loss from discontinued operations of $67 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The change was primarily driven by a $23 million after tax gain realized from the sale of our Purchased Paper Non Mortgage portfolio in the third quarter of 2011 compared to $52 million of after tax impairments recognized in 2010. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2009 For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, net income was $530 million, or $.94 diluted earnings per common share, and $324 million, or $.38 diluted earnings per common share, respectively. The increase in net income for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared with the prior year was primarily due to a $1.5 billion increase in net interest income after provisions for loan losses and a $243 million decrease in net losses on derivative and hedging activities. These improvements were partially offset by a $660 million goodwill and intangible asset impairment charge in 2010, a $165 million increase in operating expenses, a $219 million decrease in gains on debt repurchases and a decrease in securitization servicing and Residual Interest revenue of $295 million. The primary contributors to each of the identified drivers of changes in income from continuing operations before income tax expense for the year over year period are as follows: Net interest income after provisions for loan losses increased by $1.5 billion in the year ended December 31, 2010 from the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in net interest income and provisions for loan losses was partially due to the adoption as of January 1, 2010 of the new consolidation accounting guidance which resulted in the consolidation of $35.0 billion of assets and $34.4 billion of liabilities in certain securitizations trusts. (See Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies for a further discussion of the effect of adopting the new consolidation accounting guidance). The consolidation of these securitization trusts as of January 1, 2010 resulted in $998 million of additional net interest income and $355 million of additional provisions for loan losses for the year ended December 31, 2010. Excluding the effect of the trusts being consolidated as of January 1, 2010, net interest income increased $758 million from the year ended 2009 and provisions for loan losses decreased $55 million from the year ended 2009. The increase in net interest income, excluding the effect of the new consolidation accounting guidance, was primarily the result of an increase in the FFELP Loans net interest margin primarily due to an improvement in our funding costs, a 24 basis point tightening of the CP/LIBOR spread and the effect of not receiving hedge accounting treatment for derivatives used to economically hedge risk affecting net interest income. The decrease in the provisions for loan losses relates to the Private Education Loan loss provision, which decreased as a result of the improving performance of the portfolio. Securitization servicing and Residual Interest revenue was no longer recorded in fiscal year 2010 due to the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance; however, we recognized $295 million in the prior year. 35 Table of Contents Gains on loans and investments, net, increased $41 million from the prior year primarily related to the gains on sales of additional FFELP Loans to ED as part of EDs Loan Purchase Commitment Program (the Purchase Program). These gains will not occur in the future as the Purchase Program ended in 2010. Losses on derivatives and hedging activities, net, declined by $243 million in 2010 compared with 2009, primarily due to interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations, which primarily affected the valuations of our Floor Income Contracts, basis swaps and foreign currency hedges during the period. Valuations of derivative instruments vary based upon many factors including changes in interest rates, credit risk, foreign currency fluctuations and other market factors. As a result, net gains and losses on derivatives and hedging activities may vary significantly in future periods. Servicing revenue decreased by $35 million primarily due to HCERA becoming effective as of July 1, 2010, thereby eliminating our ability to earn additional Guarantor issuance fees on new FFELP Loans, as well as to a decline in outstanding FFELP Loans for which we were earning additional fees. Contingency revenue increased $36 million primarily from increased collections on defaulted FFELP Loans. Gains on debt repurchases decreased $219 million year over year while the principal amount of debt repurchased increased to $4.9 billion, as compared with the $3.4 billion repurchased in fiscal year 2009. Debt repurchase activity will fluctuate based on market fundamentals and our liability management strategy. Other income declined by $82 million primarily due to a $71 million decrease in foreign currency translation gains. The foreign currency translation gains relate to a portion of our foreign currency denominated debt that does not receive hedge accounting treatment. These gains were partially offset by the losses on derivative and hedging activities, net line item on the income statement related to the derivatives used to economically hedge these debt instruments. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring related asset impairments of $19 million in 2010, increased $146 million year over year primarily due to an increase in legal contingency expense, costs related to the ED Servicing Contract, higher collection and servicing costs from a higher number of loans in repayment and in delinquent status, and higher marketing and technology enhancement costs related to Private Education Loans. Goodwill and intangible asset impairment and amortization increased $623 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, primarily due to the $660 million of impairment recognized as a result of the passage of HCERA and its negative effects on the anticipated cash flows for certain of our reporting units and the reduced market values of these units. The amortization of acquired intangibles for continuing operations and for discontinued operations each remained relatively unchanged for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For additional discussion regarding the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets see Note 5 Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets. Restructuring expenses increased $69 million in the year ended December 31, 2010, which is a result of a $75 million increase in restructuring expenses in continuing operations partially offset by a $6 million decrease in restructuring expenses attributable to discontinued operations. The following details our ongoing restructuring efforts: On March 30, 2010, President Obama signed into law H.R. 4872, HCERA, which included the SAFRA Act. Effective July 1, 2010, this legislation eliminated FFELP and requires all new federal loans to be made through the DSLP. The new law did not alter or affect the terms and conditions of existing FFELP Loans. We have and will continue to restructure our operations in response to this change in law which has and will continue to result in a significant reduction of operating costs due to the elimination of positions and facilities associated with the origination of FFELP Loans. Restructuring expenses associated with continuing operations under this restructuring plan were $83 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. We expect to incur an estimated $10 million of additional restructuring expenses. 36 Table of Contents In response to the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007 (CCRAA) and challenges in the capital markets, we also initiated a restructuring plan in the fourth quarter of 2007. Under this ongoing plan, restructuring expenses associated with continuing operations of $2 million and $10 million were recognized in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This restructuring plan was essentially completed in the fourth quarter of 2009. Income tax expense from continuing operations increased $229 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared with the prior year. The effective tax rates for fiscal years 2010 and 2009 were 45 percent and 33 percent, respectively. The change in the effective tax rate was primarily driven by the impact of non deductible goodwill impairments recorded in 2010 and state tax rate changes recorded in both periods. Net loss from discontinued operations in the year ended December 31, 2010 was $67 million compared with a net loss from discontinued operations of $220 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we sold our Purchased Paper Mortgage/Properties business for $280 million which resulted in an after tax loss of $95 million. As a result of this sale, the results of operations of this business were presented in discontinued operations in the fourth quarter of 2009. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we began actively marketing our Purchased Paper Non Mortgage business for sale and began presenting its results in discontinued operations. We recorded an after tax loss of $52 million from discontinued operations in the fourth quarter of 2010, primarily due to adjusting the value of this business to its estimated fair value. We sold our Purchased Paper Non Mortgage business in the third quarter of 2011. Our Purchased Paper businesses are presented in discontinued operations for the current and prior periods. The additional losses for both years that are more than the losses discussed above relate to ongoing impairment recorded as a result of the weakened economys effect on our ability to collect the receivables. Core Earnings Definition and Limitations We prepare financial statements in accordance with GAAP. However, we also evaluate our business segments on a basis that differs from GAAP. We refer to this different basis of presentation as Core Earnings. We provide this Core Earnings basis of presentation on a consolidated basis for each business segment because this is what we internally review when making management decisions regarding our performance and how we allocate resources. We also refer to this information in our presentations with credit rating agencies, lenders and investors. Because our Core Earnings basis of presentation corresponds to our segment financial presentations, we are required by GAAP to provide Core Earnings disclosure in the notes to our consolidated financial statements for our business segments. For additional information, see Note 16 Segment Reporting. Core Earnings are not a substitute for reported results under GAAP. We use Core Earnings to manage each business segment because Core Earnings reflect adjustments to GAAP financial results for three items, discussed below, that create significant volatility mostly due to timing factors generally beyond the control of management. Accordingly, we believe that Core Earnings provide management with a useful basis from which to better evaluate results from ongoing operations against the business plan or against results from prior periods. Consequently, we disclose this information as we believe it provides investors with additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely assessed by management. The three items adjusted for in our Core Earnings presentations are (1) our use of derivatives instruments to hedge our economic risks that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment or do qualify for hedge accounting treatment but result in ineffectiveness (2) the accounting for goodwill and acquired intangible assets and (3) the off balance sheet treatment of certain securitization transactions. 37 Table of Contents While GAAP provides a uniform, comprehensive basis of accounting, for the reasons described above, our Core Earnings basis of presentation does not. Core Earnings are subject to certain general and specific limitations that investors should carefully consider. For example, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting. Our Core Earnings are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Accordingly, our Core Earnings presentation does not represent a comprehensive basis of accounting. Investors, therefore, may not be able to compare our performance with that of other financial services companies based upon Core Earnings. Core Earnings results are only meant to supplement GAAP results by providing additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely used by management, our board of directors, rating agencies, lenders and investors to assess performance. Specific adjustments that management makes to GAAP results to derive our Core Earnings basis of presentation are described in detail in the section entitled Core Earnings Definition and Limitations Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP of this Item 7. The following tables show Core Earnings for each business segment and our business as a whole along with the adjustments made to the income/expense items to reconcile the amounts to our reported GAAP results as required by GAAP and reported in Note 16 Segment Reporting. 38 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2011 (Dollars in millions) ConsumerLending BusinessServices FFELPLoans Other Eliminations(1) Total CoreEarnings Adjustments(2) TotalGAAP Interest income: Student loans $ 2,429 $ $ 2,914 $ $ $ 5,343 $ 547 $ 5,890 Other loans 21 21 21 Cash and investments 9 11 5 5 (11 ) 19 19 Total interest income 2,438 11 2,919 26 (11 ) 5,383 547 5,930 Total interest expense 804 1,472 54 (11 ) 2,319 82 2,401 Net interest income 1,634 11 1,447 (28 ) 3,064 465 3,529 Less: provisions for loan losses 1,179 86 30 1,295 1,295 Net interest income afterprovisions for loan losses 455 11 1,361 (58 ) 1,769 465 2,234 Servicing revenue 64 970 85 1 (739 ) 381 381 Contingency revenue 333 333 333 Gains on debt repurchases 64 64 (26 ) 38 Other income (loss) (9 ) 70 1 (9 ) 53 (979 ) (926 ) Total other income (loss) 55 1,373 86 56 (739 ) 831 (1,005 ) (174 ) Expenses: Direct operating expenses 304 482 760 12 (739 ) 819 819 Overhead expenses 281 281 281 Operating expenses 304 482 760 293 (739 ) 1,100 1,100 Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment and amortization 24 24 Restructuring expenses 3 3 1 2 9 9 Total expenses 307 485 761 295 (739 ) 1,109 24 1,133 Income (loss) from continuing operations, before income tax expense (benefit) 203 899 686 (297 ) 1,491 (564 ) 927 Income tax expense (benefit)(3) 75 330 252 (109 ) 548 (220 ) 328 Net income (loss) from continuing operations 128 569 434 (188 ) 943 (344 ) 599 Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes 33 33 33 Net income (loss) 128 569 434 (155 ) 976 (344 ) 632 Less: loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) Net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation $ 128 $ 570 $ 434 $ (155 ) $ $ 977 $ (344 ) $ 633 (1) The eliminations in servicing revenue and direct operating expense represent the elimination of intercompany servicing revenue where the Business Services segment performs the loan servicing function for the FFELP Loans segment. (2) Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP: Year Ended December 31, 2011 (Dollars in millions) Net ImpactofDerivativeAccounting Net Impact ofGoodwill andAcquiredIntangibles Total Net interest income after provisions for loan losses $ 465 $ $ 465 Total other loss (1,005 ) (1,005 ) Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairmentand amortization 24 24 Total Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP $ (540 ) $ (24 ) (564 ) Income tax benefit (220 ) Net loss $ (344 ) (3) Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segment. 39 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 (Dollars in millions) ConsumerLending BusinessServices FFELPLoans Other Eliminations(1) Total CoreEarnings Adjustments(2) TotalGAAP Interest income: Student loans $ 2,353 $ $ 2,766 $ $ $ 5,119 $ 579 $ 5,698 Other loans 30 30 30 Cash and investments 14 17 9 3 (17 ) 26 26 Total interest income 2,367 17 2,775 33 (17 ) 5,175 579 5,754 Total interest expense 758 1,407 45 (17 ) 2,193 82 2,275 Net interest income (loss) 1,609 17 1,368 (12 ) 2,982 497 3,479 Less: provisions for loan losses 1,298 98 23 1,419 1,419 Net interest income (loss) after provisions for loan losses 311 17 1,270 (35 ) 1,563 497 2,060 Servicing revenue 72 912 68 1 (648 ) 405 405 Contingency revenue 330 330 330 Gains on debt repurchases 317 317 317 Other income (loss) 51 320 13 384 (414 ) (30 ) Total other income 72 1,293 388 331 (648 ) 1,436 (414 ) 1,022 Expenses: Direct operating expenses 350 500 736 12 (648 ) 950 950 Overhead expenses 258 258 258 Operating expenses 350 500 736 270 (648 ) 1,208 1,208 Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment and amortization 699 699 Restructuring expenses 12 7 54 12 85 85 Total expenses 362 507 790 282 (648 ) 1,293 699 1,992 Income from continuing operations, before income tax expense 21 803 868 14 1,706 (616 ) 1,090 Income tax expense(3) 8 288 311 4 611 (118 ) 493 Net income from continuing operations 13 515 557 10 1,095 (498 ) 597 Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes (67 ) (67 ) (67 ) Net income (loss) $ 13 $ 515 $ 557 $ (57 ) $ $ 1,028 $ (498 ) $ 530 (1) The eliminations in servicing revenue and direct operating expense represent the elimination of intercompany servicing revenue where the Business Services segment performs the loan servicing function for the FFELP Loans segment. (2) Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP: Year Ended December 31, 2010 (Dollars in millions) Net ImpactofDerivativeAccounting Net Impact ofGoodwill andAcquiredIntangibles Total Net interest income after provisions for loan losses $ 497 $ $ 497 Total other loss (414 ) (414) Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairmentand amortization 699 699 Total Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP $ 83 $ (699 ) (616) Income tax benefit (118) Net loss $ (498) (3) Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segment. 40 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) ConsumerLending BusinessServices FFELPLoans Other Eliminations(1) Total CoreEarnings Adjustments(2) TotalGAAP Interest income: Student loans $ 2,254 $ $ 3,252 $ $ $ 5,506 $ (830 ) $ 4,676 Other loans 56 56 56 Cash and investments 13 20 26 (10 ) (20 ) 29 (3 ) 26 Total interest income 2,267 20 3,278 46 (20 ) 5,591 (833 ) 4,758 Total interest expense 721 2,238 66 (20 ) 3,005 30 3,035 Net interest income (loss) 1,546 20 1,040 (20 ) 2,586 (863 ) 1,723 Less: provisions for loan losses 1,399 119 46 1,564 (445 ) 1,119 Net interest income (loss) after provisions for loan losses 147 20 921 (66 ) 1,022 (418 ) 604 Servicing revenue 70 954 75 (659 ) 440 440 Contingency revenue 294 294 294 Gains on debt repurchases 536 536 536 Other income 55 292 1 348 (285 ) 63 Total other income 70 1,303 367 537 (659 ) 1,618 (285 ) 1,333 Expenses: Direct operating expenses 265 440 754 6 (659 ) 806 806 Overhead expenses 237 237 237 Operating expenses 265 440 754 243 (659 ) 1,043 1,043 Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment and amortization 76 76 Restructuring expenses 2 2 8 (2 ) 10 10 Total expenses 267 442 762 241 (659 ) 1, 053 76 1,129 Income (loss) from continuing operations, before income tax expense (benefit) (50 ) 881 526 230 1,587 (779 ) 808 Income tax expense (benefit)(3) (18 ) 311 186 81 560 (296 ) 264 Net income (loss) from continuing operations (32 ) 570 340 149 1,027 (483 ) 544 Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes (220 ) (220 ) (220 ) Net income (loss) $ (32 ) $ 570 $ 340 $ (71 ) $ $ 807 $ (483 ) $ 324 (1) The eliminations in servicing revenue and direct operating expense represent the elimination of intercompany servicing revenue where the Business Services segment performs the loan servicing function for the FFELP Loans segment. (2) Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP: Year Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) Net Impact ofDerivativeAccounting Net Impact ofGoodwill andAcquiredIntangibles Net Impact ofSecuritizationAccounting Total Net interest income (loss) $ 78 $ $ (941 ) $ (863 ) Less: provisions for loan losses (445 ) (445 ) Net interest income (loss) after provisions for loan losses 78 (496 ) (418 ) Total other income (loss) (580 ) 295 (285 ) Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment and amortization 76 76 Total Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP $ (502 ) $ (76 ) $ (201 ) (779 ) Income tax benefit (296 ) Net loss $ (483 ) (3) Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segment. 41 Table of Contents Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP The three adjustments required to reconcile from our Core Earnings results to our GAAP results of operations relate to differing treatments for: (1) our use of derivatives instruments to hedge our economic risks that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment or do qualify for hedge accounting treatment but result in ineffectiveness (2) the accounting for goodwill and acquired intangible assets and (3) the off balance sheet treatment of certain securitization transactions. The following table reflects aggregate adjustments associated with these areas. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP: Net impact of derivative accounting $ (540 ) $ 83 $ (502 ) Net impact of goodwill and acquired intangibles (24 ) (699 ) (76 ) Net impact of securitization accounting (201 ) Net income tax effect 220 118 296 Total Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP $ (344 ) $ (498 ) $ (483 ) 1) Derivative Accounting: Core Earnings exclude periodic unrealized gains and losses that are caused primarily by the mark to market valuations on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under GAAP. To a lesser extent, these periodic unrealized gains and losses are also a result of ineffectiveness recognized related to effective hedges. These unrealized gains and losses occur in our Consumer Lending, FFELP Loans and Other business segments. Under GAAP, for our derivatives that are held to maturity, the cumulative net unrealized gain or loss over the life of the contract will equal $0 except for Floor Income Contracts where the cumulative unrealized gain will equal the amount for which we sold the contract. In our Core Earnings presentation, we recognize the economic effect of these hedges, which generally results in any net settlement cash paid or received being recognized ratably as an interest expense or revenue over the hedged items life. The accounting for derivatives requires that changes in the fair value of derivative instruments be recognized currently in earnings, with no fair value adjustment of the hedged item, unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. We believe that our derivatives are effective economic hedges, and as such, are a critical element of our interest rate and foreign currency risk management strategy. However, some of our derivatives, primarily Floor Income Contracts and certain basis swaps, do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and the stand alone derivative must be marked to market in the income statement with no consideration for the corresponding change in fair value of the hedged item. These gains and losses recorded in Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net are primarily caused by interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate volatility and changing credit spreads during the period as well as the volume and term of derivatives not receiving hedge accounting treatment. Our Floor Income Contracts are written options that must meet more stringent requirements than other hedging relationships to achieve hedge effectiveness. Specifically, our Floor Income Contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment because the pay down of principal of the student loans underlying the Floor Income embedded in those student loans does not exactly match the change in the notional amount of our written Floor Income Contracts. Additionally, the term and the interest rate index of the Floor Income Contract is different than that of the student loans. Under derivatives accounting treatment, the upfront payment is deemed a liability and changes in fair value are recorded through income throughout the life of the contract. The change in the value of Floor Income Contracts is primarily caused by changing interest rates that cause the amount of Floor Income earned on the underlying student loans and paid to the counterparties to vary. This is economically offset by the change in value of the student loan portfolio earning Floor Income but that offsetting change in value is not recognized. We believe the Floor Income Contracts are economic hedges because they effectively fix the amount of Floor Income earned over the contract period, thus eliminating the timing and uncertainty that changes 42 Table of Contents in interest rates can have on Floor Income for that period. Therefore, for purposes of Core Earnings, we have removed the unrealized gains and losses related to these contracts and added back the amortization of the net premiums received on the Floor Income Contracts. The amortization of the net premiums received on the Floor Income Contracts for Core Earnings is reflected in student loan interest income. Under GAAP accounting, the premium received on the Floor Income Contracts is recorded as revenue in the gains (losses) on derivatives and hedging activities, net line item by the end of the contracts life. Basis swaps are used to convert floating rate debt from one floating interest rate index to another to better match the interest rate characteristics of the assets financed by that debt. We primarily use basis swaps to hedge our student loan assets that are primarily indexed to a commercial paper, Prime or Treasury bill index. In addition, we use basis swaps to convert debt indexed to the Consumer Price Index to three month LIBOR debt. The accounting for derivatives requires that when using basis swaps, the change in the cash flows of the hedge effectively offset both the change in the cash flows of the asset and the change in the cash flows of the liability. Our basis swaps hedge variable interest rate risk; however, they generally do not meet this effectiveness test because the index of the swap does not exactly match the index of the hedged assets as required for hedge accounting treatment. Additionally, some of our FFELP Loans can earn at either a variable or a fixed interest rate depending on market interest rates and therefore swaps economically hedging these FFELP Loans do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting treatment. As a result, under GAAP, these swaps are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value reflected currently in the income statement. The table below quantifies the adjustments for derivative accounting on our net income. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Core Earnings derivative adjustments: Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net, included in other income(1) $ (959 ) $ (361 ) $ (604 ) Plus: Realized losses on derivative and hedging activities, net(1) 806 815 322 Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net (153 ) 454 (282 ) Amortization of net premiums on Floor Income Contracts in net interest income for Core Earnings (355 ) (317 ) (197 ) Other pre change in derivatives accounting adjustments (32 ) (54 ) (23 ) Total net impact derivative accounting(2) $ (540 ) $ 83 $ (502 ) (1) See Reclassification of Realized Gains (Losses) on Derivative and Hedging Activities below for a detailed breakdown of the components of realized losses on derivative and hedging activities. (2) Negative amounts are subtracted from Core Earnings to arrive at GAAP net income and positive amounts are added to Core Earnings to arrive at GAAP net income. 43 Table of Contents Reclassification of Realized Gains (Losses) on Derivative and Hedging Activities Derivative accounting requires net settlement income/expense on derivatives and realized gains/losses related to derivative dispositions (collectively referred to as realized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities) that do not qualify as hedges to be recorded in a separate income statement line item below net interest income. Under our Core Earnings presentation, these gains and losses are reclassified to the income statement line item of the economically hedged item. For our Core Earnings net interest margin, this would primarily include: (a) reclassifying the net settlement amounts related to our Floor Income Contracts to student loan interest income and (b) reclassifying the net settlement amounts related to certain of our basis swaps to debt interest expense. The table below summarizes the realized losses on derivative and hedging activities and the associated reclassification on a Core Earnings basis. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Reclassification of realized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities: Net settlement expense on Floor Income Contracts reclassified to net interest income $ (902 ) $ (888 ) $ (717 ) Net settlement income (expense) on interest rate swaps reclassified to net interest income 71 69 412 Foreign exchange derivatives gains/(losses) reclassified to other income (15 ) Net realized gains (losses) on terminated derivative contracts reclassified to other income 25 4 (2 ) Total reclassifications of realized (gains) losses on derivative and hedging activities (806 ) (815 ) (322 ) Add: Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net(1) (153 ) 454 (282 ) Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net $ (959 ) $ (361 ) $ (604 ) (1) Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net comprises the following unrealized mark to market gains (losses): Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Floor Income Contracts $ (267 ) $ 156 $ 483 Basis swaps 104 341 (413 ) Foreign currency hedges (32 ) (83 ) (255 ) Other 42 40 (97 ) Total unrealized gains (losses) on derivative andhedging activities, net $(153) $454 $(282) 44 Table of Contents Cumulative Impact of Derivative Accounting under GAAP compared to Core Earnings As of December 31, 2011, derivative accounting has reduced GAAP equity by approximately $1.0 billion as a result of approximately $1.0 billion (after tax) of cumulative net unrealized net losses recognized for GAAP, but not in Core Earnings. The following table rolls forward the cumulative impact to GAAP equity due to these unrealized net losses related to derivative accounting. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Beginning impact of derivative accounting on GAAP equity $ (676 ) $ (737 ) $ (452 ) Net impact of net unrealized gains/(losses) under derivative accounting (301 ) 61 (285 ) Ending impact of derivative accounting on GAAP equity $ (977 ) $ (676 ) $ (737 ) In addition, net Floor premiums received on Floor Income Contracts that have not been amortized into Core Earnings as of the respective year ends are presented in the table below. These net premiums will be recognized in Core Earnings in future periods and are presented below net of tax. As of December 31, 2011, the remaining amortization term of the net floor premiums was approximately 4.5 years. (Dollars in millions) December 31,2011 December 31,2010 December 31,2009 Unamortized net Floor premiums (net of tax) $ (772 ) $ (363 ) $ (421 ) 2) Goodwill and Acquired Intangibles: Our Core Earnings exclude goodwill and intangible impairment and the amortization of acquired intangibles. The following table summarizes the goodwill and acquired intangible adjustments. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Core Earnings goodwill and acquired intangibles adjustments: Goodwill and intangible impairment of acquired intangibles from continuing operations $ $ (660 ) $ (36 ) Goodwill and intangible impairment of acquired intangibles from discontinued operations, net of tax (1 ) Amortization of acquired intangibles from continuing operations (24 ) (39 ) (38 ) Amortization of acquired intangibles from discontinued operations, net of tax (1 ) Total Core Earnings goodwill and acquired intangibles adjustments(1) $ (24 ) $ (699 ) $ (76 ) (1) Negative amounts are subtracted from Core Earnings to arrive at GAAP net income and positive amounts are added to Core Earnings to arrive at GAAP net income. 45 Table of Contents 3) Securitization Accounting: On January 1, 2010, we adopted the new consolidation accounting guidance which consolidated our off balance sheet securitization trusts. As a result, from 2010 forward, there is no longer a difference between our GAAP and Core Earnings presentation for securitization accounting. (See Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies for further detail). Prior to the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, certain securitization transactions in our FFELP Loans and Consumer Lending business segments were accounted for as sales of assets. Under Core Earnings for the FFELP Loans and Consumer Lending business segments, we present all securitization transactions as long term non recourse financings. The upfront gains on sale from securitization transactions, as well as ongoing securitization servicing and Residual Interest revenue (loss) presented in accordance with GAAP, were excluded from Core Earnings and were replaced by interest income, provisions for loan losses, and interest expense as earned or incurred on the securitization loans. The additional net interest margin included in Core Earnings contained any related fees or costs such as Consolidation Loan Rebate Fees, premium and discount amortization as well as any Repayment Borrower Benefit yield adjustments. We also excluded transactions with our off balance sheet trusts from Core Earnings as they were considered intercompany transactions on a Core Earnings basis. While we believe that our Core Earnings presentation presents the economic substance of results from our loan portfolios, when compared to GAAP results, it understates earnings volatility from securitization gains, securitization servicing income and Residual Interest income. The following table summarizes Core Earnings securitization adjustments for the Consumer Lending and FFELP Loans business segments for the year ended December 31, 2009. Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2009 Core Earnings securitization adjustments: Net interest income on securitized loans, before provisions for loan losses and before intercompany transactions $ (942 ) Provisions for loan losses 445 Net interest income on securitized loans, after provisions for loan losses, before intercompany transactions (497 ) Intercompany transactions with off balance sheet trusts 1 Net interest income on securitized loans, after provisions for loan losses (496 ) Securitization servicing and Residual Interest revenue 295 Total Core Earnings securitization adjustments(1) $ (201 ) (1) Negative amounts are subtracted from Core Earnings to arrive at GAAP net income and positive amounts are added to Core Earnings to arrive at GAAP net income. 46 Table of Contents Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis Consumer Lending Segment The following table includes Core Earnings results for our Consumer Lending segment. Years Ended December 31, % Increase (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Core Earnings interest income: Private Education Loans $ 2,429 $ 2,353 $ 2,254 3 % 4 % Cash and investments 9 14 13 (36 ) 8 Total Core Earnings interest income 2,438 2,367 2,267 3 4 Total Core Earnings interest expense 804 758 721 6 5 Net Core Earnings interest income 1,634 1,609 1,546 2 4 Less: provisions for loan losses 1,179 1,298 1,399 (9 ) (7 ) Net Core Earnings interest income after provisions for loan losses 455 311 147 46 112 Servicing revenue 64 72 70 (11 ) 3 Other income (loss) (9 ) (100 ) Total income 55 72 70 (24 ) 3 Direct operating expenses 304 350 265 (13 ) 32 Restructuring expenses 3 12 2 (75 ) 500 Total expenses 307 362 267 (15 ) 36 Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) 203 21 (50 ) 867 142 Income tax expense (benefit) 75 8 (18 ) 838 144 Core Earnings (loss) $ 128 $ 13 $ (32 ) 885 % (141 )% Core Earnings were $128 million in 2011, compared with Core Earnings of $13 million in 2010. This increase was primarily the result of lower provision for loan losses and operating expenses. Highlights compared to 2010 included: Loan originations increased to $2.7 billion, up 19 percent from $2.3 billion. The portfolio, net of loan loss allowance, totaled $36.3 billion at December 31, 2011, compared with $35.7 billion at December 31, 2010. Net interest margin, before loan loss provision, improved to 4.1 percent, up from 3.9 percent. Delinquencies of 90 days or more (as a percentage of loans in repayment) improved to 4.9 percent, compared with 5.3 percent. The annual charge off rate (as a percentage of loans in repayment) improved to 3.7 percent, compared with 5.0 percent. 47 Table of Contents Consumer Lending Net Interest Margin The following table shows the Consumer Lending Core Earnings net interest margin along with reconciliation to the GAAP basis Consumer Lending net interest margin before provision for loan losses. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Core Earnings basis Private Education student loan yield 6.34 % 6.15 % 5.99 % Discount amortization .23 .29 .26 Core Earnings basis Private Education Loan net yield 6.57 6.44 6.25 Core Earnings basis Private Education Loan cost of funds (1.99 ) (1.79 ) (1.78 ) Core Earnings basis Private Education Loan spread 4.58 4.65 4.47 Core Earnings basis other asset spread impact (.49 ) (.80 ) (.62 ) Core Earnings basis Consumer Lending net interest margin(1) 4.09 % 3.85 % 3.85 % Core Earnings basis Consumer Lending net interest margin(1) 4.09 % 3.85 % 3.85 % Adjustment for GAAP accounting treatment (.08 ) .02 (.16 ) GAAP basis Consumer Lending net interest margin(1) 4.01 % 3.87 % 3.69 % (1) The average balances of our Consumer Lending Core Earnings basis interest earning assets for the respective periods are: (Dollars in millions) Private Education Loans $ 36,955 $ 36,534 $ 36,046 Other interest earning assets 3,015 5,204 4,072 Total Consumer Lending Core Earnings basis interest earning assets $ 39,970 $ 41,738 $ 40,118 The increase in the Core Earnings basis Consumer Lending net interest margin for 2011 over the prior year was primarily due to the decline in the average balance of our other asset portfolio. The size of the other asset portfolio, which is primarily securitization trust restricted cash and cash held at the Bank, has decreased significantly. This other asset portfolio earns a negative yield and as a result, when its relative weighting decreases compared to the Private Education Loan portfolio, the overall net interest margin increases. Private Education Loans Provision for Loan Losses and Charge Offs The following table summarizes the total Private Education Loans provisions for loan losses and charge offs on both a GAAP basis and a Core Earnings basis. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011(1) 2010 2009 Private Education Loan provision for loan losses, GAAP $ 1,179 $ 1,298 $ 967 Private Education Loan provision for loan losses, Core Earnings basis $ 1,179 $ 1,298 $ 1,399 Private Education Loan charge offs, GAAP $ 1,072 $ 1,291 $ 876 Private Education Loan charge offs, Core Earnings basis $ 1,072 $ 1,291 $ 1,299 (1) We recorded an additional $124 million of provision for Private Education Loan losses in the third quarter of 2011 in connection with adopting new accounting rules related to troubled debt restructurings (TDRs). For a complete discussion of the effect of these new rules on our provision for Private Education Loan losses, see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Allowance for Loan Losses. 48 Table of Contents In establishing the allowance for Private Education Loan losses as of December 31, 2011, we considered several factors with respect to our Private Education Loan portfolio. In particular, we continue to see improving credit quality and continuing positive delinquency and charge off trends in connection with this portfolio. Improving credit quality is seen in higher FICO scores and cosigner rates, as well as a more seasoned portfolio compared with the previous year. The delinquency rate has declined to 10.1 percent from 10.6 percent and the charge off rate has declined to 3.7 percent from 5.0 percent compared with the previous year. Apart from these overall improvements in credit quality, delinquency and charge off trends, Private Education Loans which defaulted between 2008 and 2011 for which we have previously charged off estimated losses have, to varying degrees, not met our post default recovery expectations to date and may continue not to do so. We have been charging off these periodic shortfalls in expected recoveries against our allowance for Private Education Loan losses and the related receivable for partially charged off Private Education Loans and we will continue to do so. Differences in actual future recoveries on these defaulted loans could affect our receivable for partially charged off Private Education Loans. In the third quarter of 2011, we increased our provision for Private Education Loan losses for the quarter in the amount of $143 million to reflect these uncertainties. Continuing historically high unemployment rates may negatively affect future Private Education Loan default and recovery expectations over our estimated two year loss confirmation period. Consequently, we have also given consideration to these factors in projecting charge offs for this period and establishing our allowance for Private Education Loan losses. We will continue to monitor defaults and recoveries in light of the continuing weak economy and high unemployment rates. For a more detailed discussion of our policy for determining the collectability of Private Education Loan and maintaining our allowance for Private Education Loan losses, see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Allowance for Loan Losses. Servicing Revenue and Other Income Consumer Lending Segment Servicing revenue for our Consumer Lending segment primarily includes late fees and forbearance fees. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, servicing revenue for our Consumer Lending segment totaled $64 million, $72 million and $70 million, respectively. Included in other income for the year ended December 31, 2011 was a $9 million mark to market loss related to classifying our entire $12 million portfolio of non U.S. dollar denominated student loans as held for sale. Operating Expenses Consumer Lending Segment Operating expenses for our Consumer Lending segment include costs incurred to originate Private Education Loans and to service and collect on our Private Education Loan portfolio. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, operating expenses for our Consumer Lending segment totaled $304 million, $350 million and $265 million, respectively. 2011 versus 2010 The decrease in operating expenses in the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with the year ago period was primarily the result of our cost cutting initiatives. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring related asset impairments, were 82 basis points and 96 basis points of average Private Education Loans in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 2010 versus 2009 Operating expenses increased $85 million from 2009, primarily as the result of a non recurring $11 million benefit in 2009 related to reversing a contingency reserve, an increase in collection and servicing costs from a higher number of loans in repayment and delinquency status and higher marketing and technology enhancement costs related to Private Education Loans in 2010. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring related asset impairments, were 96 basis points and 74 basis points, respectively, of average Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. 49 Table of Contents Business Services Segment The following tables include Core Earnings results for our Business Services segment. Years Ended December 31, % Increase (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Net interest income after provision $ 11 $ 17 $ 20 (35 )% (15 )% Servicing revenue: Intercompany loan servicing 739 648 659 14 (2 ) Third party loan servicing 82 77 53 6 45 Guarantor servicing 52 93 152 (44 ) (39 ) Other servicing 97 94 90 3 4 Total servicing revenue 970 912 954 6 (4 ) Contingency revenue 333 330 294 1 12 Other Business Services revenue 70 51 55 37 (7 ) Total other income 1,373 1,293 1,303 6 (1 ) Direct operating expenses 482 500 440 (4 ) 14 Restructuring expenses 3 7 2 (57 ) 250 Total expenses 485 507 442 (4 ) 15 Income from continuing operations, before income tax expense 899 803 881 12 (9 ) Income tax expense 330 288 311 15 (7 ) Core Earnings 569 515 570 10 (10 ) Less: net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (1 ) (100 ) Core Earnings attributable to SLM Corporation $ 570 $ 515 $ 570 11 % (10 )% Core Earnings were $570 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $515 million in the year ago period. The improvement was primarily driven by the acquisition of existing FFELP Loans from other lenders, including $25 billion acquired in the fourth quarter of 2010. Our Business Services segment earns intercompany loan servicing fees from servicing the FFELP Loans in our FFELP Loans segment. The average balance of this portfolio was $141 billion, $128 billion and $135 billion for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in intercompany loan servicing revenue from the year ago periods is primarily the result of the acquisition of an existing $25 billion FFELP Loan portfolio on December 31, 2010 partially offset by amortization of the underlying portfolio and FFELP Loans sold to ED as part of EDs Purchase Program in 2010. We are servicing approximately 3.6 million accounts under the ED Servicing Contract as of December 31, 2011. Third party loan servicing fees in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 included $63 million and $44 million, respectively, of servicing revenue related to the ED Servicing Contract. Our allocation of loans awarded for servicing under the ED contract increased from 22 percent to 26 percent for the contract year ending August 2012. The increase was driven primarily by our top ranking for default prevention performance results. The decrease in Guarantor servicing revenue compared with the year ago periods was primarily due to the elimination of FFELP in 2010, thereby eliminating any new Guarantor issuance fees we could earn. Outstanding FFELP Loans on which we earn additional fees also declined. Other servicing revenue includes account asset servicing revenue and Campus Solutions revenue. Account asset servicing revenue represents fees earned on program management, transfer and servicing agent services and 50 Table of Contents administration services for our various 529 college savings plans. Assets under administration in our 529 college savings plans totaled $37.5 billion as of December 31, 2011, a 9 percent increase from 2010. Campus Solutions revenue is earned from our Campus Solutions business whose services include comprehensive transaction processing solutions and associated technology that we provide to college financial aid offices and students to streamline the financial aid process. The following table presents the outstanding inventory of contingent collections receivables that our Business Services segment will collect on behalf of others. We expect the inventory of contingent collections receivables to decline over time as a result of the elimination of FFELP. December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Contingency: Student loans $ 11,553 $ 10,362 $ 8,762 Other 2,017 1,730 1,262 Total $ 13,570 $ 12,092 $ 10,024 Other Business Services revenue is primarily transaction fees that are earned in conjunction with our rewards program from participating companies based on member purchase activity, either online or in stores, depending on the contractual arrangement with the participating company. Typically, a percentage of the purchase price of the consumer members eligible purchases with participating companies is set aside in an account maintained by us on behalf of our members. In fourth quarter 2011, we terminated our credit card affiliation program with a third party bank and concurrently entered into an affiliation program with a new bank. In terminating the old program we recognized a $25 million gain which primarily represented prior cash advances we received that were previously recorded as deferred revenue. Revenues related to services performed on FFELP Loans accounted for 76 percent, 78 percent and 79 percent of total segment revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011, we launched Sallie Mae Insurance Services, which offers directly to college students and higher education institutions tuition, renters and student health insurance. We also include a Tuition Insurance Benefit with our Smart Option Student Loan. On September 1, 2011, we acquired SC Services & Associates, Inc., a provider of collections services to local governments and courts. This acquisition enhances and complements our other contingency collection businesses. Operating Expenses Business Services Segment For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, operating expenses for the Business Services segment totaled $482 million, $500 million and $440 million, respectively. 2011 versus 2010 Operating expenses for 2011 decreased from 2010, primarily as a result of our cost cutting initiatives. Included in operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011 is approximately $33 million in third party servicing costs associated with our acquisition of $25 billion of existing FFELP Loans at the end of 2010. During third quarter 2011, we began transitioning these loans to our own servicing platform and completed the transfer in October 2011. With the portfolio fully transitioned, the servicing costs associated with these loans will be significantly less in 2012. 51 Table of Contents 2010 versus 2009 Operating expenses increased $60 million from 2009 to 2010 primarily due to higher technology and other expenses related to preparation for higher volumes for the ED Servicing Contract as well as an increase in legal contingency expenses. FFELP Loans Segment The following table includes Core Earnings results for our FFELP Loans segment. Years Ended December 31, % Increase (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Core Earnings interest income: FFELP Loans $ 2,914 $ 2,766 $ 3,252 5 % (15 )% Cash and investments 5 9 26 (44 ) (65 ) Total Core Earnings interest income 2,919 2,775 3,278 5 (15 ) Total Core Earnings interest expense 1,472 1,407 2,238 5 (37 ) Net Core Earnings interest income 1,447 1,368 1,040 6 32 Less: provisions for loan losses 86 98 119 (12 ) (18 ) Net Core Earnings interest income after provisions for loan losses 1,361 1,270 921 7 38 Servicing revenue 85 68 75 25 (9 ) Other income 1 320 292 (100 ) 10 Total other income 86 388 367 (78 ) 6 Direct operating expenses 760 736 754 3 (2 ) Restructuring expenses 1 54 8 (98 ) 575 Total expenses 761 790 762 (4 ) 4 Income from continuing operations, before income tax expense 686 868 526 (21 ) 65 Income tax expense 252 311 186 (19 ) 67 Core Earnings $ 434 $ 557 $ 340 (22 )% 64 % Core Earnings from the FFELP Loans segment were $434 million in fiscal year 2011, compared with $557 million in the year ago period. The prior year had a $321 million gain from the sale of loans. Key financial measures include: Net interest margin of .98 percent in the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with .93 percent in the year ago period. The provision for loan losses of $86 million in the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased from $98 million in the year ago period. 52 Table of Contents FFELP Loans Net Interest Margin The following table shows the FFELP Loans Core Earnings net interest margin along with reconciliation to the GAAP basis FFELP Loans net interest margin. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Core Earnings basis FFELP student loan yield 2.59 % 2.57 % 2.68 % Hedged Floor Income .25 .23 .14 Unhedged Floor Income .12 .02 .22 Consolidation Loan Rebate Fees (.65 ) (.59 ) (.59 ) Repayment Borrower Benefits (.12 ) (.10 ) (.11 ) Premium amortization (.15 ) (.18 ) (.17 ) Core Earnings basis FFELP student loan net yield 2.04 1.95 2.17 Core Earnings basis FFELP student loan cost of funds (.98 ) (.93 ) (1.44 ) Core Earnings basis FFELP student loan spread 1.06 1.02 .73 Core Earnings basis FFELP other asset spread impact (.08 ) (.09 ) (.06 ) Core Earnings basis FFELP Loans net interest margin(1) .98 % .93 % .67 % Core Earnings basis FFELP Loans net interest margin(1) .98 % .93 % .67 % Adjustment for GAAP accounting treatment .34 .33 (.08 ) GAAP basis FFELP Loans net interest margin 1.32 % 1.26 % .59 % (1) The average balances of our FFELP Core Earnings basis interest earning assets for the respective periods are: (Dollars in millions) FFELP Loans $ 143,109 $ 142,043 $ 150,059 Other interest earning assets 5,194 5,562 5,126 Total FFELP Core Earnings basis interest earning assets $ 148,303 $ 147,605 $ 155,185 The increase in the Core Earnings basis FFELP Loans net interest margin of 5 basis points for 2011 compared with 2010 was primarily the result of an increase in Floor Income due to lower interest rates. The Core Earnings basis FFELP Loans net interest margin for 2010 increased by 26 basis points from 2009. This was primarily the result of a significant reduction in the cost of our ABCP Facility, a 24 basis point improvement in the CP/LIBOR Spread and a significantly higher margin on the loans within the EDs Loan Participation Purchase Program (the Participation Program) facility compared with the prior year. As of December 31, 2011, our FFELP Loan portfolio totaled approximately $138.1 billion, comprised of $50.4 billion of FFELP Stafford and $87.7 billion of FFELP Consolidation Loans. The weighted average life of these portfolios is 5.0 years and 9.2 years, respectively, assuming a Constant Prepayment Rate (CPR) of 5 percent and 3 percent, respectively. On December 23, 2011, the President signed the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012 into law. This law includes changes that permit FFELP lenders or beneficial holders to change the index on which the Special Allowance Payments (SAP) are calculated for FFELP Loans first disbursed on or after January 1, 2000. The law allows holders to elect to move the index from the Commercial Paper (CP) Rate to the one month LIBOR rate. Such elections must be made by April 1, 2012. As of December 31, 2011, we had $130 billion of loans where we intend to elect the change. This change will help us to better match lender payments with our financing costs. We currently expect the new formula to be developed and available for use in the second quarter of 2012. 53 Table of Contents During the fourth quarter 2011, the Administration announced a Special Direct Consolidation Loan Initiative. The initiative provides an incentive to borrowers who have at least one student loan owned by the Department of Education and at least one held by a FFELP lender to consolidate the FFELP lenders loans into the Direct Loan program by providing a 0.25 percentage point interest rate reduction on the FFELP loans that are eligible for consolidation. The program is available from January 17, 2012 through June 30, 2012. We currently do not foresee the initiative having a significant impact on our FFELP segment. On December 31, 2010, we closed on our agreement to purchase an interest in $26.1 billion of securitized federal student loans and related assets from the Student Loan Corporation (SLC), a subsidiary of Citibank, N.A. The purchase price was approximately $1.1 billion and included the residual interest in 13 of SLCs 14 FFELP loan securitizations and its interest in SLC Funding Note Issuer. We service these assets and administer the securitization trusts. Because we have determined that we are the primary beneficiary of these trusts we have consolidated these trusts onto our balance sheet. Floor Income The following table analyzes the ability of the FFELP Loans in our portfolio to earn Floor Income after December 31, 2011 and 2010, based on interest rates as of those dates. December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 (Dollars in billions) FixedBorrowerRate VariableBorrowerRate Total FixedBorrowerRate VariableBorrowerRate Total Student loans eligible to earn Floor Income $ 118.3 $ 17.7 $ 136.0 $ 124.5 $ 21.0 $ 145.5 Less: post March 31, 2006 disbursed loans required to rebate Floor Income (62.7 ) (1.2 ) (63.9 ) (66.1 ) (1.3 ) (67.4 ) Less: economically hedged Floor Income Contracts (41.5 ) (41.5 ) (39.2 ) (39.2 ) Student loans eligible to earn Floor Income $ 14.1 $ 16.5 $ 30.6 $ 19.2 $ 19.7 $ 38.9 Student loans earning Floor Income $ 14.1 $ 2.3 $ 16.4 $ 19.2 $ 1.3 $ 20.5 We have sold the above referenced Floor Income contracts to economically hedge the potential Floor Income from specifically identified pools of FFELP Consolidation Loans that are eligible to earn Floor Income. The following table presents a projection of the average balance of FFELP Consolidation Loans for which Fixed Rate Floor Income has been economically hedged through the sale of Floor Income Contracts for the period January 1, 2012 to June 30, 2016. The Floor Income Contracts related to these loans do not qualify as effective hedges under GAAP accounting. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in billions) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Average balance of FFELP Consolidation Loans whose Floor Income is economically hedged $ 38.3 $ 32.6 $ 28.3 $ 27.2 $ 10.4 54 Table of Contents FFELP Loans Provision for Loan Losses and Charge Offs The following table summarizes the total FFELP Loan provision for loan losses and charge offs on both a GAAP basis and a Core Earnings basis. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 FFELP Loan provision for loan losses, GAAP $ 86 $ 98 $ 106 FFELP Loan provision for loan losses, Core Earnings basis $ 86 $ 98 $ 119 FFELP Loan charge offs, GAAP $ 78 $ 87 $ 79 FFELP Loan charge offs, Core Earnings basis $ 78 $ 87 $ 94 Servicing Revenue and Other Income FFELP Loans Segment The following table summarizes the components of Core Earnings other income for our FFELP Loans segment. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Servicing revenue $ 85 $ 68 $ 75 Gains on loans and investments, net 325 284 Other 1 (5 ) 8 Total other income, net $ 86 $ 388 $ 367 Servicing revenue for our FFELP Loans segment primarily consists of borrower late fees. The gains on loans and investments in 2010 and 2009 related primarily to the sale of $20.4 billion and $18.5 billion loans, respectively, of FFELP Loans to ED as part of the ED Purchase Program. Operating Expenses FFELP Loans Segment Operating expenses for our FFELP Loans segment primarily include the contractual rates we pay to service loans in term asset backed securitization trusts or a similar rate if a loan is not in a term financing facility (which is presented as an intercompany charge from the Business Services segment who services the loans), the fees we pay for third party loan servicing and costs incurred to acquire loans. The intercompany revenue charged from the Business Services segment and included in those amounts was $739 million, $648 million and $659 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These amounts exceed the actual cost of servicing the loans. 2011 versus 2010 The increase in operating expenses from the prior year was primarily the result of the increase in servicing costs related to the $25 billion loan portfolio acquisition on December 31, 2010. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring related asset impairments, were 53 basis points and 51 basis points of average FFELP Loans in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 2010 versus 2009 Operating expenses decreased $18 million from the prior year, primarily due to the effect of our cost cutting initiative in connection with the passage of HCERA. This was partially offset by a one time fee paid to acquire 55 Table of Contents the SLC portfolio, an increase in legal contingency expenses and costs related to closing and selling two loan originations centers in 2010. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring related asset impairments, were 51 basis points and 50 basis points of average Core Earnings basis FFELP Loans in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Other Segment The Other segment primarily consists of the financial results related to the repurchase of debt, the corporate liquidity portfolio and all overhead. We also include results from smaller wind down and discontinued operations within this segment. These are the Purchased Paper businesses and mortgage and other loan businesses. The Other segment includes our remaining businesses that do not pertain directly to the primary segments identified above. Overhead expenses include costs related to executive management, the board of directors, accounting, finance, legal, human resources, stock based compensation expense and certain information technology costs related to infrastructure and operations. The following table includes Core Earnings results for our Other segment. Years EndedDecember 31, % Increase (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Net interest loss after provision $ (58 ) $ (35 ) $ (66 ) 66 % (47 )% Gains on debt repurchases 64 317 536 (80 ) (41 ) Other (8 ) 14 1 (157 ) 1,300 Total income 56 331 537 (83 ) (38 ) Direct operating expenses 13 12 6 8 100 Overhead expenses: Corporate overhead 163 128 138 27 (7 ) Unallocated information technology costs 117 130 99 (10 ) 31 Total overhead expenses 280 258 237 9 9 Total operating expenses 293 270 243 9 11 Restructuring expenses 2 12 (2 ) (83 ) 700 Total expenses 295 282 241 5 17 Income (loss) from continuing operations, before income tax expense (benefit) (297 ) 14 230 (2,221 ) (94 ) Income tax expense (benefit) (109 ) 4 81 (2,825 ) (95 ) Net income (loss) from continuing operations (188 ) 10 149 (1,980 ) (93 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 33 (67 ) (220 ) 149 (70 ) Core Earnings net loss $ (155 ) $ (57 ) $ (71 ) 172 % (20 )% Purchased Paper Business Our Purchased Paper businesses are presented as discontinued operations for the current and prior periods (see Consolidated Earnings Summary GAAP basis for a further discussion). We sold our Purchased Paper Non Mortgage business, resulting in a $23 million after tax gain, in the third quarter of 2011. Gains on Debt Repurchases We began repurchasing our outstanding debt in the second quarter of 2008. We repurchased $894 million, $4.9 billion and $3.4 billion face amount of our senior unsecured notes in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Since the second quarter of 2008, we repurchased $11.1 billion face amount of our senior unsecured notes in the aggregate, with maturity dates ranging from 2008 to 2016. 56 Table of Contents Other Income 2011 had $26 million of impairment recorded related to our investments in leveraged leases. The impairment was primarily related to American Airlines filing for bankruptcy in the fourth quarter of 2011. As a result of their bankruptcy filing we fully impaired our related leveraged lease investments. We also have $13 million in operating leases at December 31, 2011 with American Airlines which we have determined are not impaired. As of December 31, 2011, our total remaining investment in airline leases is $40 million. Overhead Corporate overhead is comprised of costs related to executive management, the board of directors, accounting, finance, legal, human resources and stock based compensation expense. Unallocated information technology costs are related to infrastructure and operations. 2011 versus 2010 The increase in overhead from 2010 to 2011 was primarily the result of a change in the terms of our stock based compensation plans, additional expense related to the termination of our defined benefit pension plan, and restructuring related consulting expenses incurred in the first half of 2011. In the first quarter of 2011, we changed our stock based compensation plans so that retirement eligible employees would not forfeit unvested stock based compensation upon their retirement. This change had the effect of accelerating the future stock based compensation expenses associated with these unvested stock grants into the current period for those retirement eligible employees. We also recognized $16 million of additional expense in 2011 related to the termination of our defined benefit pension plan due to changes in estimates related to the employee termination benefits as well as changes in interest rates. 2010 versus 2009 Operating expenses increased $27 million from 2009 to 2010. This increase in corporate overhead was primarily attributable to increased technology costs associated with disaster recovery modernization, enterprise architecture and information security upgrades. Financial Condition This section provides additional information regarding the changes related to our loan portfolio assets and related liabilities as well as credit performance indicators related to our loan portfolio. Many of these disclosures will show both GAAP basis as well as Core Earnings basis disclosures. Because certain trusts were not consolidated prior to the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, these trusts were treated as off balance sheet for GAAP purposes but we considered them on balance sheet for Core Earnings purposes. Subsequent to the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, this difference no longer exists because all of our trusts are treated as on balance sheet for GAAP purposes. Below and elsewhere in the document, Core Earnings basis disclosures include all historically (pre January 1, 2010) off balance sheet trusts as though they were on balance sheet. We believe that providing Core Earnings basis disclosures is meaningful because when we evaluate the performance and risk characteristics of the Company we have always considered the effect of any off balance sheet trusts as though they were on balance sheet. 57 Table of Contents Average Balance Sheets GAAP The following table reflects the rates earned on interest earning assets and paid on interest bearing liabilities and reflects our net interest margin on a consolidated basis. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance Rate Balance Rate Balance Rate Average Assets FFELP Loans $ 143,109 2.42 % $ 142,043 2.36 % $ 128,538 2.41 % Private Education Loans 36,955 6.57 36,534 6.44 23,154 6.83 Other loans 233 9.16 323 9.20 561 9.98 Cash and investments 10,636 .18 12,729 .20 11,046 .24 Total interest earning assets 190,933 3.11 % 191,629 3.00 % 163,299 2.91 % Non interest earning assets 5,308 5,931 8,693 Total assets $ 196,241 $ 197,560 $ 171,992 Average Liabilities and Equity Short term borrowings $ 31,413 .89 % $ 38,634 .86 % $ 44,485 1.84 % Long term borrowings 156,151 1.36 150,768 1.29 118,699 1.87 Total interest bearing liabilities 187,564 1.28 % 189,402 1.20 % 163,184 1.86 % Non interest bearing liabilities 3,679 3,280 3,719 Equity 4,998 4,878 5,089 Total liabilities and equity $ 196,241 $ 197,560 $ 171,992 Net interest margin 1.85 % 1.82 % 1.05 % Rate/Volume Analysis GAAP The following rate/volume analysis shows the relative contribution of changes in interest rates and asset volumes. Increase(Decrease) Change Due To(1) (Dollars in millions) Rate Volume 2011 vs. 2010 Interest income $ 176 $ 197 $ (21 ) Interest expense 126 149 (23 ) Net interest income $ 50 $ 63 $ (13 ) 2010 vs. 2009 Interest income $ 996 $ 149 $ 847 Interest expense (760 ) (1,194 ) 434 Net interest income $ 1,756 $ 1,416 $ 340 (1) Changes in income and expense due to both rate and volume have been allocated in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each. The changes in income and expense are calculated independently for each line in the table. The totals for the rate and volume columns are not the sum of the individual lines. 58 Table of Contents Summary of our Student Loan Portfolio Ending Student Loan Balances, net December 31, 2011 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELPLoans PrivateEducationLoans Total Total student loan portfolio: In school(1) $ 3,100 $ $ 3,100 $ 2,263 $ 5,363 Grace, repayment and other(2) 46,618 86,925 133,543 35,830 169,373 Total, gross 49,718 86,925 136,643 38,093 174,736 Unamortized premium/(discount) 839 835 1,674 (873 ) 801 Receivable for partially charged off loans 1,241 1,241 Allowance for losses (117 ) (70 ) (187 ) (2,171 ) (2,358 ) Total student loan portfolio $ 50,440 $ 87,690 $ 138,130 $ 36,290 $ 174,420 % of total FFELP 37 % 63 % 100 % % of total 29 % 50 % 79 % 21 % 100 % December 31, 2010 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP PrivateEducationLoans Total Total student loan portfolio: In school(1) $ 6,333 $ $ 6,333 $ 3,752 $ 10,085 Grace, repayment and other(2) 49,068 91,537 140,605 33,780 174,385 Total, gross 55,401 91,537 146,938 37,532 184,470 Unamortized premium/(discount) 971 929 1,900 (894 ) 1,006 Receivable for partially charged off loans 1,040 1,040 Allowance for losses (120 ) (69 ) (189 ) (2,022 ) (2,211 ) Total student loan portfolio $ 56,252 $ 92,397 $ 148,649 $ 35,656 $ 184,305 % of FFELP 38 % 62 % 100 % % of total 31 % 50 % 81 % 19 % 100 % (1) Loans for borrowers still attending school and are not yet required to make payments on the loan. (2) Includes loans in deferment or forbearance. 59 Table of Contents Average Student Loan Balances (net of unamortized premium/discount) Year Ended December 31, 2011 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP PrivateEducationLoans Total Total(1) $ 53,163 $ 89,946 $ 143,109 $ 36,955 $ 180,064 % of FFELP 37 % 63 % 100 % % of total 29 % 50 % 79 % 21 % 100 % Year Ended December 31, 2010 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP PrivateEducationLoans Total Total(1) $ 61,034 $ 81,009 $ 142,043 $ 36,534 $ 178,577 % of FFELP 43 % 57 % 100 % % of total 34 % 46 % 80 % 20 % 100 % Year Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP PrivateEducationLoans Total GAAP basis $ 58,492 $ 70,046 $ 128,538 $ 23,154 $ 151,692 Off balance sheet 6,365 15,156 21,521 12,892 34,413 Total Core Earnings basis $ 64,857 $ 85,202 $ 150,059 $ 36,046 $ 186,105 % of GAAP basis FFELP 46 % 54 % 100 % % of Core Earnings basis FFELP 43 % 57 % 100 % % of total 35 % 46 % 81 % 19 % 100 % (1) Upon the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, we consolidated all of our off balance sheet securitization trusts. 60 Table of Contents Student Loan Activity Year Ended December 31, 2011 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP Total PrivateEducationLoans TotalPortfolio Beginning balance $ 56,252 $ 92,397 $ 148,649 $ 35,656 $ 184,305 Acquisitions and originations 814 802 1,616 2,942 4,558 Capitalized interest and premium/discount amortization 1,506 1,535 3,041 1,269 4,310 Consolidations to third parties (2,741 ) (1,058 ) (3,799 ) (69 ) (3,868 ) Sales (754 ) (754 ) (754 ) Repayments/defaults/other (4,637 ) (5,986 ) (10,623 ) (3,508 ) (14,131 ) Ending balance $ 50,440 $ 87,690 $ 138,130 $ 36,290 $ 174,420 Year Ended December 31, 2010 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP Total PrivateEducationLoans TotalPortfolio Beginning balance GAAP basis $ 52,675 $ 68,379 $ 121,054 $ 22,753 $ 143,807 Consolidation of off balance sheet loans(1) 5,500 14,797 20,297 12,341 32,638 Beginning balance total portfolio 58,175 83,176 141,351 35,094 176,445 Acquisitions and originations 14,349 76 14,425 2,434 16,859 Capitalized interest and premium/discount amortization 1,324 1,357 2,681 1,462 4,143 Consolidations to third parties (2,092 ) (793 ) (2,885 ) (46 ) (2,931 ) Loan acquisition on December 31, 2010 11,237 13,652 24,889 24,889 Sales (21,054 ) (71 ) (21,125 ) (21,125 ) Repayments/defaults/other (5,687 ) (5,000 ) (10,687 ) (3,288 ) (13,975 ) Ending balance $ 56,252 $ 92,397 $ 148,649 $ 35,656 $ 184,305 (1) On January 1, 2010, upon adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance, all off balance sheet loans are included in the GAAP basis. 61 Table of Contents GAAP BasisYear Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP Total PrivateEducationLoans Total On Balance SheetPortfolio Beginning balance $ 52,476 $ 71,744 $ 124,220 $ 20,582 $ 144,802 Consolidations to third parties (1,113 ) (518 ) (1,631 ) (8 ) (1,639 ) Acquisitions and originations(1) 25,677 1,150 26,827 4,343 31,170 Net acquisitions and originations 24,564 632 25,196 4,335 29,531 Securitization related(2) 645 645 645 Sales (19,300 ) (19,300 ) (19,300 ) Repayments/defaults/resales/other (5,710 ) (3,997 ) (9,707 ) (2,164 ) (11,871 ) Ending balance $ 52,675 $ 68,379 $ 121,054 $ 22,753 $ 143,807 Off Balance SheetYear Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP Total PrivateEducationLoans Total Off Balance SheetPortfolio Beginning balance $ 7,143 $ 15,531 $ 22,674 $ 12,917 $ 35,591 Consolidations to third parties (413 ) (138 ) (551 ) (18 ) (569 ) Acquisitions and originations(1) 135 208 343 498 841 Net acquisitions and originations (278 ) 70 (208 ) 480 272 Securitization related(2) (645 ) (645 ) (645 ) Repayments/defaults/resales/other (720 ) (804 ) (1,524 ) (1,056 ) (2,580 ) Ending balance $ 5,500 $ 14,797 $ 20,297 $ 12,341 $ 32,638 Core Earnings Basis PortfolioYear Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP Total PrivateEducationLoans Total CoreEarnings BasisPortfolio Beginning balance $ 59,619 $ 87,275 $ 146,894 $ 33,499 $ 180,393 Consolidations to third parties (1,526 ) (656 ) (2,182 ) (26 ) (2,208 ) Acquisitions and originations(1) 25,812 1,358 27,170 4,841 32,011 Net acquisitions and originations 24,286 702 24,988 4,815 29,803 Securitization related(2) Sales (19,300 ) (19,300 ) (19,300 ) Repayments/defaults/resales/other (6,430 ) (4,801 ) (11,231 ) (3,220 ) (14,451 ) Ending balance $ 58,175 $ 83,176 $ 141,351 $ 35,094 $ 176,445 (1) Includes accrued interest receivable capitalized to principal during the period. (2) Represents loans within securitization trusts that we are required to consolidate under GAAP once the trusts loan balances are below the clean up call threshold. 62 Table of Contents Private Education Loan Originations Total Private Education Loan originations increased 19 percent from 2010 to $2.7 billion in the year ended December 31, 2011. The following table summarizes our Private Education Loan originations. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Total Private Education Loan originations $ 2,737 $ 2,307 $ 3,176 Consumer Lending Portfolio Performance Private Education Loan Delinquencies and Forbearance The tables below present our Private Education Loan delinquency trends. GAAP BasisPrivate Education Loan Delinquencies December 31,2011 December 31,2010 December 31,2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 6,522 $ 8,340 $ 8,910 Loans in forbearance(2) 1,386 1,340 967 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 27,122 89.9 % 24,888 89.4 % 12,421 86.4 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 1,076 3.6 1,011 3.6 647 4.5 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 520 1.6 471 1.7 340 2.4 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 1,467 4.9 1,482 5.3 971 6.7 Total Private Education Loans in repayment 30,185 100 % 27,852 100 % 14,379 100 % Total Private Education Loans, gross 38,093 37,532 24,256 Private Education Loan unamortized discount (873 ) (894 ) (559 ) Total Private Education Loans 37,220 36,638 23,697 Private Education Loan receivable for partially charged off loans 1,241 1,040 499 Private Education Loan allowance for losses (2,171 ) (2,022 ) (1,443 ) Private Education Loans, net $ 36,290 $ 35,656 $ 22,753 Percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 79.2 % 74.2 % 59.3 % Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 10.1 % 10.6 % 13.6 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 4.4 % 4.6 % 6.3 % Loans in repayment greater than 12 months as a percentage of loans in repayment(4) 72.4 % 64.3 % 55.4 % (1) Deferment includes borrowers who have returned to school or are engaged in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation. (2) Loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period generally during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors, consistent with established loan program servicing policies and procedures. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. (4) Based on number of months in an active repayment status for which a scheduled monthly payment was due. 63 Table of Contents Off Balance SheetPrivate Education LoanDelinquencies(5) December 31,2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 2,546 Loans in forbearance(2) 453 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 8,987 90.0 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 332 3.3 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 151 1.5 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 517 5.2 Total Private Education Loans in repayment 9,987 100 % Total Private Education Loans, gross 12,986 Private Education Loan unamortized discount (349 ) Total Private Education Loans 12,637 Private Education Loan receivable for partially charged off loans 229 Private Education Loan allowance for losses (524 ) Private Education Loans, net $ 12,342 Percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 76.9 % Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 10.0 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 4.3 % Loans in repayment greater than 12 months as a percentage of loans in repayment(4) 56.3 % (1) Deferment includes borrowers who have returned to school or are engaged in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation. (2) Loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period generally during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors, consistent with established loan program servicing policies and procedures. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. (4) Based on number of months in an active repayment status for which a scheduled monthly payment was due. (5) On January 1, 2010, upon adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance, all off balance sheet loans are included in GAAP basis. 64 Table of Contents Core Earnings BasisPrivate Education Loan Delinquencies December 31,2011 December 31,2010 December 31,2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 6,522 $ 8,340 $ 11,456 Loans in forbearance(2) 1,386 1,340 1,420 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 27,122 89.9 % 24,888 89.4 % 21,408 87.9 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 1,076 3.6 1,011 3.6 979 4.0 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 520 1.6 471 1.7 491 2.0 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 1,467 4.9 1,482 5.3 1,488 6.1 Total Private Education Loans in repayment 30,185 100 % 27,852 100 % 24,366 100 % Total Private Education Loans, gross 38,093 37,532 37,242 Private Education Loan unamortized discount (873 ) (894 ) (908 ) Total Private Education Loans 37,220 36,638 36,334 Private Education Loan receivable for partially charged off loans 1,241 1,040 728 Private Education Loan allowance for losses (2,171 ) (2,022 ) (1,967 ) Private Education Loans, net $ 36,290 $ 35,656 $ 35,095 Percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 79.2 % 74.2 % 65.4 % Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 10.1 % 10.6 % 12.1 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 4.4 % 4.6 % 5.5 % Loans in repayment greater than 12 months as a percentage of loans in repayment(4) 72.4 % 64.3 % 55.8 % (1) Deferment includes borrowers who have returned to school or are engaged in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation. (2) Loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period generally during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors, consistent with established loan program servicing policies and procedures. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. (4) Based on number of months in an active repayment status for which a scheduled monthly payment was due. 65 Table of Contents Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses The following table summarizes changes in the allowance for Private Education Loan losses. Activity in Allowance for Private Education Loans GAAP BasisYears Ended December 31, Off Balance SheetYears Ended December 31, Core Earnings BasisYears Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011(1) 2010 2009 2011 2010(2) 2009 2011(1) 2010 2009 Allowance at beginning of period $ 2,022 $ 1,443 $ 1,308 $ $ 524 $ 505 $ 2,022 $ 1,967 $ 1,813 Provision for Private Education Loan losses(1) 1,179 1,298 967 432 1,179 1,298 1,399 Charge offs (1,072 ) (1,291 ) (876 ) (423 ) (1,072 ) (1,291 ) (1,299 ) Reclassification of interest reserve(3) 42 48 44 10 42 48 54 Consolidation of securitization trusts(2) 524 (524 ) Allowance at end of period $ 2,171 $ 2,022 $ 1,443 $ $ $ 524 $ 2,171 $ 2,022 $ 1,967 Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment 3.7 % 5.0 % 7.2 % % % 4.4 % 3.7 % 5.0 % 6.0 % Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment and forbearance 3.6 % 4.8 % 6.7 % % % 4.2 % 3.6 % 4.8 % 5.6 % Allowance as a percentage of the ending total loan balance(4) 5.5 % 5.2 % 5.8 % % % 4.0 % 5.5 % 5.2 % 5.2 % Allowance as a percentage of ending loans in repayment 7.2 % 7.3 % 10.0 % % % 5.2 % 7.2 % 7.3 % 8.1 % Allowance coverage of charge offs 2.0 1.6 1.6 1.2 2.0 1.6 1.5 Ending total loans(4) $ 39,334 $ 38,572 $ 24,755 $ $ $ 13,215 $ 39,334 $ 38,572 $ 37,970 Average loans in repayment $ 28,790 $ 25,596 $ 12,137 $ $ $ 9,597 $ 28,790 $ 25,596 $ 21,734 Ending loans in repayment $ 30,185 $ 27,852 $ 14,379 $ $ $ 9,987 $ 30,185 $ 27,852 $ 24,366 (1) See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Allowance for Loan Losses for a discussion regarding the impact of adopting new accounting guidance related to TDRs in the third quarter of 2011, which increased provisions for loan losses by $124 million in the third quarter of 2011. (2) On January 1, 2010, upon the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance, all off balance sheet loans are included in the GAAP basis. (3) Represents the additional allowance related to the amount of uncollectible interest reserved within interest income that is transferred in the period to the allowance for loan losses when interest is capitalized to a loans principal balance. (4) Ending total loans represents gross Private Education Loans, plus the receivable for partially charged off loans. 66 Table of Contents The following table provides the detail for our traditional and non traditional Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans. Years Ended December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) Traditional Non Traditional Total Traditional Non Traditional Total Traditional Non Traditional Total Ending total loans(1) $ 35,233 $ 4,101 $ 39,334 $ 34,177 $ 4,395 $ 38,572 $ 33,223 $ 4,747 $ 37,970 Ending loans in repayment 27,467 2,718 30,185 25,043 2,809 27,852 21,453 2,913 24,366 Private Education Loan allowance for losses 1,542 629 2,171 1,231 791 2,022 1,056 911 1,967 Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment 2.8 % 12.3 % 3.7 % 3.6 % 16.8 % 5.0 % 3.6 % 21.4 % 6.0 % Allowance as a percentage of ending total loan balance(1) 4.4 % 15.3 % 5.5 % 3.6 % 18.0 % 5.2 % 3.2 % 19.2 % 5.2 % Allowance as a percentage of ending loans in repayment 5.6 % 23.1 % 7.2 % 4.9 % 28.2 % 7.3 % 4.9 % 31.3 % 8.1 % Allowance coverage of charge offs 2.1 1.9 2.0 1.5 1.7 1.6 1.6 1.5 1.5 Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 8.6 % 26.0 % 10.1 % 8.8 % 27.4 % 10.6 % 9.5 % 31.4 % 12.1 % Delinquencies greater than 90 days as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 4.0 % 13.6 % 4.9 % 4.2 % 15.0 % 5.3 % 4.6 % 17.5 % 6.1 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 4.2 % 6.6 % 4.4 % 4.4 % 6.1 % 4.6 % 5.3 % 7.1 % 5.5 % Loans that entered repayment during the period(2) $ 1,514 $ 110 $ 1,624 $ 2,510 $ 187 $ 2,697 $ 2,966 $ 261 $ 3,227 Percentage of Private Education Loans with a cosigner 65 % 29 % 62 % 63 % 28 % 59 % 61 % 28 % 57 % Average FICO at origination 726 624 717 725 623 715 725 623 713 (1) Ending total loans represents gross Private Education Loans, plus the receivable for partially charged off loans. (2) Includes loans that are required to make a payment for the first time. As part of concluding on the adequacy of the allowance for loan loss, we review key allowance and loan metrics. The most significant of these metrics considered are the allowance coverage of charge offs ratio; the allowance as a percentage of total loans and of loans in repayment; and delinquency and forbearance percentages. 67 Table of Contents Receivable for Partially Charged Off Private Education Loans At the end of each month, for loans that are 212 days past due, we charge off the estimated loss of a defaulted loan balance. Actual recoveries are applied against the remaining loan balance that was not charged off. We refer to this remaining loan balance as the receivable for partially charged off loans. If actual periodic recoveries are less than expected, the difference is immediately charged off through the allowance for loan losses with an offsetting reduction in the receivable for partially charged off Private Education Loans. If actual periodic recoveries are greater than expected, they will be reflected as a recovery through the allowance for Private Education Loan losses once the cumulative recovery amount exceeds the cumulative amount originally expected to be recovered. There was $143 million in provision for Private Education Loan losses recorded in 2011 to reflect possible additional future charge offs related to the receivable for partially charged off Private Education Loans (see Consumer Lending Segment Private Education Loans Provision for Loan Losses and Charge Offs for a further discussion). The following table summarizes the activity in the receivable for partially charged off loans. Activity in Receivable for Partially Charged Off Loans GAAP Basis Off Balance Sheet Core Earnings Basis Years EndedDecember 31, Years EndedDecember 31, Years EndedDecember 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010(4) 2009 2011 2010 2009 Receivable at beginning of period $ 1,040 $ 499 $ 222 $ $ 229 $ 92 $ 1,040 $ 728 $ 314 Expected future recoveries of current period defaults(1) 391 459 324 156 391 459 480 Recoveries(2) (155 ) (104 ) (43 ) (17 ) (155 ) (104 ) (60 ) Charge offs(3) (35 ) (43 ) (4 ) (2 ) (35 ) (43 ) (6 ) Consolidation of securitization trusts(4) 229 (229 ) Receivable at end of period $ 1,241 $ 1,040 $ 499 $ $ $ 229 $ 1,241 $ 1,040 $ 728 (1) Remaining loan balance expected to be collected from contractual loan balances partially charged off during the period. This is the difference between the defaulted loan balance and the amount of the defaulted loan balance that was charged off. (2) Current period cash collections. (3) Represents the current period recovery shortfall the difference between what was expected to be collected and what was actually collected. (4) Upon the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, we consolidated all of our off balance sheet securitization trusts. Use of Forbearance as a Private Education Loan Collection Tool Forbearance involves granting the borrower a temporary cessation of payments (or temporary acceptance of smaller than scheduled payments) for a specified period of time. Using forbearance extends the original term of the loan. Forbearance does not grant any reduction in the total repayment obligation (principal or interest). While in forbearance status, interest continues to accrue and is capitalized to principal when the loan re enters repayment status. Our forbearance policies include limits on the number of forbearance months granted consecutively and the total number of forbearance months granted over the life of the loan. In some instances, we require good faith payments before granting forbearance. Exceptions to forbearance policies are permitted when such exceptions are judged to increase the likelihood of collection of the loan. Forbearance as a collection tool is used most effectively when applied based on a borrowers unique situation, including historical information and judgments. We leverage updated borrower information and other decision support tools to best determine who will be granted forbearance based on our expectations as to a borrowers ability and willingness to repay their obligation. This strategy is aimed at mitigating the overall risk of the portfolio as well as encouraging cash resolution of delinquent loans. Forbearance may be granted to borrowers who are exiting their grace period to provide additional time to obtain employment and income to support their obligations, or to current borrowers who are faced with a 68 Table of Contents hardship and request forbearance time to provide temporary payment relief. In these circumstances, a borrowers loan is placed into a forbearance status in limited monthly increments and is reflected in the forbearance status at month end during this time. At the end of their granted forbearance period, the borrower will enter repayment status as current and is expected to begin making their scheduled monthly payments on a go forward basis. Forbearance may also be granted to borrowers who are delinquent in their payments. In these circumstances, the forbearance cures the delinquency and the borrower is returned to a current repayment status. In more limited instances, delinquent borrowers will also be granted additional forbearance time. The table below reflects the historical effectiveness of using forbearance. Our experience has shown that three years after being granted forbearance for the first time, 66 percent of the loans are current, paid in full, or receiving an in school grace or deferment, and 20 percent have defaulted. The default experience associated with loans which utilize forbearance is considered in our allowance for loan losses. The monthly average number of loans granted forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance remained steady at 5.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to the year ago quarter. As of December 31, 2011, 2.6 percent of loans in current status were delinquent as of the end of the prior month, but were granted a forbearance that made them current as of December 31, 2011 (borrowers made payments on approximately 22 percent of these loans immediately prior to being granted forbearance). Tracking by First Time in Forbearance Compared to All Loans Entering Repayment Status distribution36 months afterbeing grantedforbearancefor the first time Status distribution36 months afterentering repayment(all loans) Status distribution36 months afterentering repayment forloans never enteringforbearance In school/grace/deferment 9.7 % 9.0 % 5.2 % Current 49.5 58.0 65.8 Delinquent 31 60 days 3.1 2.0 0.4 Delinquent 61 90 days 1.9 1.1 0.2 Delinquent greater than 90 days 4.8 2.7 0.3 Forbearance 4.3 3.3 Defaulted 19.7 10.8 6.0 Paid 7.0 13.1 22.1 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % The tables below show the composition and status of the Core Earnings basis Private Education Loan portfolio aged by number of months in active repayment status (months for which a scheduled monthly payment was due). As indicated in the tables, the percentage of loans in forbearance status decreases the longer the loans have been in active repayment status. At December 31, 2011, loans in forbearance status as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance were 6.9 percent for loans that have been in active repayment status for less than 25 months. The percentage drops to 1.3 percent for loans that have been in active repayment status for more than 48 months. Approximately 80 percent of our Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans in forbearance status has been in active repayment status less than 25 months. 69 Table of Contents (Dollars in millions) Monthly Scheduled Payments Due Not Yet inRepayment December 31, 2011 0 to 12 13 to 24 25 to 36 37 to 48 More than 48 Total Loans in school/grace/deferment $ $ $ $ $ $ 6,522 $ 6,522 Loans in forbearance 920 194 126 66 80 1,386 Loans in repayment current 6,866 6,014 5,110 3,486 5,646 27,122 Loans in repayment delinquent 31 60 days 506 212 158 83 117 1,076 Loans in repayment delinquent 61 90 days 245 100 78 41 56 520 Loans in repayment delinquent greater than 90 days 709 317 205 102 134 1,467 Total $ 9,246 $ 6,837 $ 5,677 $ 3,778 $ 6,033 $ 6,522 38,093 Unamortized discount (873 ) Receivable for partially charged off loans 1,241 Allowance for loan losses (2,171 ) Total Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans, net $ 36,290 Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 10.0 % 2.8 % 2.2 % 1.8 % 1.3 % % 4.4 % (Dollars in millions) Monthly Scheduled Payments Due Not Yet inRepayment December 31, 2010 0 to 12 13 to 24 25 to 36 37 to 48 More than 48 Total Loans in school/grace/deferment $ $ $ $ $ $ 8,340 $ 8,340 Loans in forbearance 980 167 92 47 54 1,340 Loans in repayment current 8,342 5,855 4,037 2,679 3,975 24,888 Loans in repayment delinquent 31 60 days 537 209 117 63 85 1,011 Loans in repayment delinquent 61 90 days 258 92 55 27 39 471 Loans in repayment delinquent greater than 90 days 815 336 156 75 100 1,482 Total $ 10,932 $ 6,659 $ 4,457 $ 2,891 $ 4,253 $ 8,340 37,532 Unamortized discount (894 ) Receivable for partially charged off loans 1,040 Allowance for loan losses (2,022 ) Total Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans, net $ 35,656 Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 9.0 % 2.5 % 2.1 % 1.6 % 1.3 % % 4.6 % (Dollars in millions) Monthly Scheduled Payments Due Not Yet inRepayment December 31, 2009 0 to 12 13 to 24 25 to 36 37 to 48 More than 48 Total Loans in school/grace/deferment $ $ $ $ $ $ 11,456 $ 11,456 Loans in forbearance 1,144 139 69 31 37 1,420 Loans in repayment current 8,817 4,730 3,119 1,878 2,864 21,408 Loans in repayment delinquent 31 60 days 642 159 79 40 59 979 Loans in repayment delinquent 61 90 days 316 81 41 23 30 491 Loans in repayment delinquent greater than 90 days 999 251 110 53 75 1,488 Total $ 11,918 $ 5,360 $ 3,418 $ 2,025 $ 3,065 $ 11,456 37,242 Unamortized discount (908 ) Receivable for partially charged off loans 728 Allowance for loan losses (1,967 ) Total Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans, net $ 35,095 Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 9.6 % 2.6 % 2.0 % 1.6 % 1.2 % % 5.5 % 70 Table of Contents The table below stratifies the portfolio of Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans in forbearance by the cumulative number of months the borrower has used forbearance as of the dates indicated. As detailed in the table below, 4 percent of loans currently in forbearance have cumulative forbearance of more than 24 months. December 31,2011 December 31,2010 December 31,2009 (Dollars in millions) ForbearanceBalance % ofTotal ForbearanceBalance % ofTotal ForbearanceBalance % ofTotal Cumulative number of months borrower has used forbearance Up to 12 months $ 887 64 % $ 958 71 % $ 1,050 74 % 13 to 24 months 446 32 343 26 332 23 More than 24 months 53 4 39 3 38 3 Total $ 1,386 100 % $ 1,340 100 % $ 1,420 100 % Private Education Loan Repayment Options Certain loan programs allow borrowers to select from a variety of repayment options depending on their loan type and their enrollment/loan status, which include the ability to extend their repayment term or change their monthly payment. The chart below provides the optional repayment offerings in addition to the standard level principal and interest payments as of December 31, 2011. Loan Program (Dollars in millions) Signature andOther Smart Option CareerTraining Total $ in Repayment $ 24,212 $ 4,196 $ 1,777 $ 30,185 $ in Total 31,484 4,765 1,844 38,093 Payment method by enrollment status: In school/Grace Deferred (1) Deferred(1), Interest only or fixed $25/month $ Interest only or fixed 25/month Repayment Level principal andinterest or graduated Level principal and interest Level principal andinterest (1) Deferred includes loans for which no payments are required and interest charges are capitalized into the loan balance. The graduated repayment program that is part of Signature and Other Loans includes an interest only payment feature that may be selected at the option of the borrower. Borrowers elect to participate in this program at the time they enter repayment following their grace period. This program is available to borrowers in repayment, after their grace period, who would like a temporary lower payment from the required principal and interest payment amount. Borrowers participating in this program pay monthly interest with no amortization of their principal balance for up to 48 payments after entering repayment (dependent on the loan product type). The maturity date of the loan is not extended when a borrower participates in this program. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, borrowers in repayment owing approximately $7.2 billion (24 percent of loans in repayment) and $7.5 billion (27 percent of loans in repayment), respectively, were enrolled in the interest only program. Of these amounts, 11 percent and 12 percent were non traditional loans as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 71 Table of Contents FFELP Loan Portfolio Performance FFELP Loan Delinquencies and Forbearance The tables below present our FFELP Loan delinquency trends GAAP BasisFFELP Loan Delinquencies December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 22,887 $ 28,214 $ 35,079 Loans in forbearance(2) 19,575 22,028 14,121 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 77,093 81.9 % 80,026 82.8 % 57,528 82.4 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 5,419 5.8 5,500 5.7 4,250 6.1 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 3,438 3.7 3,178 3.3 2,205 3.1 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 8,231 8.6 7,992 8.2 5,844 8.4 Total FFELP Loans in repayment 94,181 100 % 96,696 100 % 69,827 100 % Total FFELP Loans, gross 136,643 146,938 119,027 FFELP Loan unamortized premium 1,674 1,900 2,187 Total FFELP Loans 138,317 148,838 121,214 FFELP Loan allowance for losses (187 ) (189 ) (161 ) FFELP Loans, net $ 138,130 $ 148,649 $ 121,053 Percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 68.9 % 65.8 % 58.7 % Delinquencies as a percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 18.1 % 17.2 % 17.6 % FFELP Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 17.2 % 18.6 % 16.8 % (1) Loans for borrowers who may still be attending school or engaging in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation, as well as loans for borrowers who have requested and qualify for other permitted program deferments such as military, unemployment, or economic hardship. (2) Loans for borrowers who have used their allowable deferment time or do not qualify for deferment, that need additional time to obtain employment or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. 72 Table of Contents Off Balance SheetFFELP LoanDelinquencies(4) December 31,2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 3,312 Loans in forbearance(2) 2,726 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 11,304 82.5 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 804 5.9 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 439 3.2 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 1,160 8.4 Total FFELP Loans in repayment 13,707 100 % Total FFELP Loans, gross 19,745 FFELP Loan unamortized premium 577 Total FFELP Loans 20,322 FFELP Loan allowance for losses (25 ) FFELP Loans, net $ 20,297 Percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 69.4 % Delinquencies as a percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 17.5 % FFELP Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 16.6 % Core Earnings BasisFFELP Loan Delinquencies December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 22,887 $ 28,214 $ 38,391 Loans in forbearance(2) 19,575 22,028 16,847 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 77,093 81.9 % 80,026 82.8 % 68,832 82.4 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 5,419 5.8 5,500 5.7 5,054 6.0 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 3,438 3.7 3,178 3.3 2,644 3.2 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 8,231 8.6 7,992 8.2 7,004 8.4 Total FFELP Loans in repayment 94,181 100 % 96,696 100 % 83,534 100 % Total FFELP Loans, gross 136,643 146,938 138,772 FFELP Loan unamortized premium 1,674 1,900 2,764 Total FFELP Loans 138,317 148,838 141,536 FFELP Loan allowance for losses (187 ) (189 ) (186 ) FFELP Loans, net $ 138,130 $ 148,649 $ 141,350 Percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 68.9 % 65.8 % 60.2 % Delinquencies as a percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 18.1 % 17.2 % 17.6 % FFELP Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 17.2 % 18.6 % 16.8 % (1) Loans for borrowers who may still be attending school or engaging in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation, as well as loans for borrowers who have requested and qualify for other permitted program deferments such as military, unemployment, or economic hardship. (2) Loans for borrowers who have used their allowable deferment time or do not qualify for deferment, that need additional time to obtain employment or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. (4) On January 1, 2010, upon the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance, all off balance sheet loans are included in GAAP basis. 73 Table of Contents Allowance for FFELP Loan Losses The following table summarizes changes in the allowance for FFELP Loan losses. Activity in Allowance for FFELP Loans GAAP BasisYears Ended December 31, Off Balance SheetYears Ended December 31, Core Earnings BasisYears Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010(1) 2009 2011 2010 2009 Allowance at beginning of period $ 189 $ 161 $ 138 $ $ 25 $ 27 $ 189 $ 186 $ 165 Provision for FFELP Loan losses 86 98 106 13 86 98 119 Charge offs (78 ) (87 ) (79 ) (15 ) (78 ) (87 ) (94 ) Student loan sales and securitization activity (10 ) (8 ) (4 ) (10 ) (8 ) (4 ) Consolidation of securitization trusts(1) 25 (25 ) Allowance at end of period $ 187 $ 189 $ 161 $ $ $ 25 $ 187 $ 189 $ 186 Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment .08 % .11 % .11 % % % .10 % .08 % .11 % .11 % Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment and forbearance .07 % .09 % .10 % % % .09 % .07 % .09 % .09 % Allowance as a percentage of the ending total loans, gross .14 % .13 % .14 % % % .13 % .14 % .13 % .13 % Allowance as a percentage of ending loans in repayment .20 % .20 % .23 % % % .18 % .20 % .20 % .22 % Allowance coverage of charge offs 2.4 2.2 2.0 1.7 2.4 2.2 2.0 Ending total loans, gross $ 136,643 $ 146,938 $ 119,027 $ $ $ 19,745 $ 136,643 $ 146,938 $ 138,772 Average loans in repayment $ 94,359 $ 82,255 $ 69,020 $ $ $ 14,293 $ 94,359 $ 82,255 $ 83,313 Ending loans in repayment $ 94,181 $ 96,696 $ 69,827 $ $ $ 13,707 $ 94,181 $ 96,696 $ 83,534 (1) Upon the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, we consolidated all of our off balance sheet securitization trusts. 74 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Funding and Liquidity Risk Management The following Liquidity and Capital Resources discussion concentrates on our Consumer Lending and FFELP Loans segments. Our Business Services and Other segments require minimal capital. We define liquidity risk as the potential inability to meet our contractual and contingent financial obligations as they come due, as well as the potential inability to fund Private Education Loan originations. Our primary liquidity objective is to ensure our ongoing ability to meet our funding needs for our businesses throughout market cycles, including during periods of financial stress. Our two primary liquidity needs are funding the originations of Private Education Loans and retiring unsecured debt upon maturity. To achieve that objective we analyze and monitor our liquidity needs, maintain excess liquidity and access diverse funding sources including the issuance of unsecured debt, the issuance of secured debt primarily through asset backed securitizations and or other financing facilities and through deposits at Sallie Mae Bank (the Bank), our Utah industrial bank subsidiary. We define liquidity as cash and high quality liquid securities that we can use to meet our funding requirements as they arise. Our primary liquidity risk relates to our ability to fund new originations and raise replacement funding at a reasonable cost as our unsecured debt matures. In addition, we must continue to obtain funding at reasonable rates to meet our other business obligations and to continue to grow our business. Key risks associated with our liquidity relate to our ability to access the capital markets and access them at reasonable rates. This ability may be affected by our credit ratings, as well as the overall availability of funding sources in the marketplace. In addition, credit ratings may be important to customers or counterparties when we compete in certain markets and when we seek to engage in certain transactions, including over the counter derivatives. Credit ratings and outlooks are opinions subject to ongoing review by the ratings agencies and may change from time to time based on our financial performance, industry dynamics and other factors. Other factors that influence our credit ratings include the ratings agencies assessment of the general operating environment, our relative positions in the markets in which we compete, reputation, liquidity position, the level and volatility of earnings, corporate governance and risk management policies, capital position and capital management practices. A negative change in our credit rating could have a negative effect on our liquidity because it would raise the cost and availability of funding and potentially require additional cash collateral or restrict cash currently held as collateral on existing borrowings or derivative collateral arrangements. It is our objective to improve our credit ratings so that we can continue to efficiently access the capital markets even in difficult economic and market conditions. Recent market volatility has elevated the potential cost of capital markets issuance. Regardless, we continue to expect to fund our ongoing liquidity needs, including the origination of new Private Education Loans and the repayment of $1.8 billion of senior unsecured notes to mature in 2012, primarily through our current cash and investment position and the collection of additional bank deposits, the very predictable operating cash flows provided by earnings and repayment of principal on unencumbered student loan assets and distributions from our securitization trusts (including servicing fees which are priority payments within the trusts). We may also draw down on FFELP ABCP Facilities and the facility with the Federal Home Loan Bank in Des Moines (the FHLB DM Facility); and we may also issue term ABS and unsecured debt. Currently, new Private Education Loan originations are initially funded through deposits and subsequently securitized to term on a programmatic basis. We have $1.5 billion of cash at the Bank as of December 31, 2011 available to fund future originations. We no longer originate FFELP Loans and therefore no longer have liquidity requirements for new FFELP Loan originations. The acquisition of loan portfolios may require additional funding. Additionally, it is our intent to refinance, primarily through securitizations, the FFELP Loans that are currently in the ED Conduit Program by its January 2014 maturity date. We currently have $21.4 billion of collateral in the ED Conduit Program. While the assets in 75 Table of Contents this facility can be put to ED at the conclusion of the program thus eliminating a call on our liquidity, we intend to refinance these assets in the term ABS market prior to the facilitys expiration. In addition, capacity is maintained in our FFELP ABCP Facility and our FHLB DM Facility to finance a portion of this collateral should term financing not be achieved or available. Sources of Liquidity and Available Capacity The following tables detail our main sources of primary liquidity and our main sources of secondary liquidity (unused secured credit facilities contingent upon obtaining eligible collateral). (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 Sources of primary liquidity: Unrestricted cash and liquid investments: Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,794 $ 4,342 Investments 71 85 Total unrestricted cash and liquid investments(1) $ 2,865 $ 4,427 Unencumbered FFELP Loans $ 994 $ 1,441 Sources of secondary liquidity contingent on obtaining eligible collateral: Unused secured credit facilities: FFELP ABCP Facilities and FHLB DM Facility(2) $ 11,312 $ 12,601 (1) At December 31, 2011 and 2010, ending balances include $1.5 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, of cash and liquid investments at the Bank. This cash will be used primarily to originate or acquire student loans at the Bank. Our ability to pay dividends from the Bank is subject to capital and liquidity requirements applicable to the Bank. (2) Current borrowing capacity under the FFELP ABCP Facilities and FHLB DM Facility is determined based on qualifying collateral from the unencumbered FFELP Loans reported in primary liquidity above. Additional borrowing capacity would primarily be used to fund FFELP Loan portfolio acquisitions and to refinance FFELP Loans used as collateral in the ED Conduit Program Facility. The total amount we can borrow is contingent upon obtaining eligible collateral. If we use our unencumbered FFELP Loans as collateral to borrow against these facilities, the remaining amount we could borrow is reduced accordingly. Average Balances Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Sources of primary liquidity: Unrestricted cash and liquid investments: Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,623 $ 6,078 $ 5,713 Investments 95 94 145 Total unrestricted cash and liquid investments(1) $ 3,718 $ 6,172 $ 5,858 Unused bank lines of credit $ $ 2,069 $ 4,014 Unencumbered FFELP Loans $ 1,399 $ 1,897 $ 3,507 Sources of secondary liquidity contingent on obtaining eligible collateral: Unused secured credit facilities: FFELP ABCP Facilities and FHLB DM Facility(2) $ 11,356 $ 12,947 $ 1,802 (1) For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, average balances include $1.2 billion, $2.3 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, of cash and liquid investments at the Bank. This cash will be used primarily to originate or acquire student loans at the Bank. Our ability to pay dividends from the Bank is subject to capital and liquidity requirements applicable to the Bank. (2) Current borrowing capacity under the FFELP ABCP Facilities and FHLB DM Facility is determined based on qualifying collateral from the unencumbered FFELP Loans reported in primary liquidity above. Additional borrowing capacity would primarily be used to fund FFELP Loan portfolio acquisitions and to refinance FFELP Loans used as collateral in the ED Conduit Program Facility. The total amount we can borrow is contingent upon obtaining eligible collateral. If we use our unencumbered FFELP Loans as collateral to borrow against these facilities, the remaining amount we could borrow is reduced accordingly. 76 Table of Contents In addition to the assets listed in the table above, we hold a number of other unencumbered assets, consisting primarily of Private Education Loans and other assets. At December 31, 2011, we had a total of $20.2 billion of unencumbered assets (which includes the assets that comprise our primary liquidity and are available to serve as collateral for our secondary liquidity), excluding goodwill and acquired intangibles. Total unencumbered student loans, net, comprised $12.0 billion of our unencumbered assets of which $11.0 billion and $1.0 billion related to Private Education Loans, net, and FFELP Loans, net, respectively. For further discussion of our various sources of liquidity, such as the ED Conduit Program, the Sallie Mae Bank, our continued access to the ABS market, our asset backed financing facilities, the lending agreement we entered into with the FHLB DM and our issuance of unsecured debt, see Note 6 Borrowings to our consolidated financial statements. The following table reconciles encumbered and unencumbered assets and their net impact on total tangible equity. (Dollars in billions) December 31,2011 December 31,2010 Net assets of consolidated variable interest entities (encumbered assets) $ 12.9 $ 13.1 Tangible unencumbered assets(1) 20.2 22.3 Unsecured debt (24.1 ) (26.9 ) Mark to market on unsecured hedged debt(2) (1.9 ) (1.4 ) Other liabilities, net (2.3 ) (2.6 ) Total tangible equity $ 4.8 $ 4.5 (1) Excludes goodwill and acquired intangible assets. (2) At December 31, 2011 and 2010, there were $1.6 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively, of net gains on derivatives hedging this debt in unencumbered assets, which partially offset these losses. 2011 Transactions During 2011, we issued a $2.0 billion senior unsecured bond. Additionally, we issued a total of $2.4 billion in FFELP ABS and $2.1 billion in Private Education Loan ABS. We expect to be a programmatic issuer of ABS throughout 2012. In the fourth quarter 2011, we closed on a $3.4 billion Private Education Loan asset backed commercial paper facility that matures in January 2014. This facility was used to finance the call of Private Education Loan asset backed securities in the fourth quarter 2011 and in early 2012 at a significant discount to the bonds par amount. This resulted in a reduced cost of funds compared to that of the called bonds. In 2011 we repurchased $894 million face amount of our senior unsecured notes in the aggregate, with maturity dates ranging from 2011 to 2014, which resulted in a realized Core Earnings gain of $64 million. On June 17, 2011, September 16, 2011, and December 16, 2011, we paid a quarterly dividend of $.10 per share on our common stock, the first dividends paid since early 2007. In April 2011, we authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of outstanding common stock in open market transactions and terminated all previous authorizations. During the second and third quarters of 2011, we repurchased 19.1 million shares for an aggregate purchase price of $300 million. With this action, we fully utilized this share repurchase authorization. 2012 Transactions The following financing transactions have taken place in 2012: On January 13, 2012, the FFELP ABCP Facility was amended to increase the amount available to $7.5 billion, reflecting an increase of $2.5 billion over the previously scheduled facility reduction. In addition, 77 Table of Contents the amendment extends the final maturity date by one year to January 9, 2015 and increases the amount available at future step down dates. On January 19, 2012, we issued $765 million of FFELP ABS. On January 27, 2012, we issued a two part $1.5 billion senior unsecured bond. $750 million has a five year term, the remaining $750 million has a ten year term. On February 9, 2012, we issued $547 million of Private Education Loan ABS. In addition, on January 26, 2012, we increased our quarterly dividend on our common stock to $0.125 per share. The next such quarterly dividend will be paid on March 16, 2012. We also authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of outstanding common stock. Counterparty Exposure Counterparty exposure related to financial instruments arises from the risk that a lending, investment or derivative counterparty will not be able to meet its obligations to us. Risks associated with our lending portfolio are discussed in Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition FFELP Loan Portfolio Performance and Consumer Lending Portfolio Performance. Our investment portfolio is composed of very short term securities issued by a diversified group of highly rated issuers limiting our counterparty exposure. Additionally, our investing activity is governed by Board approved limits on the amount that is allowed to be invested with any one issuer based on the credit rating of the issuer, further minimizing our counterparty exposure. Counterparty credit risk is considered when valuing investments and considering impairment. Related to derivative transactions, protection against counterparty risk is generally provided by International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) Credit Support Annexes (CSAs). CSAs require a counterparty to post collateral if a potential default would expose the other party to a loss. All derivative contracts entered into by SLM Corporation and the Bank are covered under such agreements and require collateral to be exchanged based on the net fair value of derivatives with each counterparty. Our securitization trusts require collateral in all cases if the counterpartys credit rating is withdrawn or downgraded below a certain level. Additionally, securitizations involving foreign currency notes issued after November 2005 also require the counterparty to post collateral to the trust based on the fair value of the derivative, regardless of credit rating. The trusts are not required to post collateral to the counterparties. In all cases, our exposure is limited to the value of the derivative contracts in a gain position net of any collateral we are holding. We consider counterparties credit risk when determining the fair value of derivative positions on our exposure net of collateral. We have liquidity exposure related to collateral movements between us and our derivative counterparties. Movements in the value of the derivatives, which are primarily affected by changes in interest rate and foreign exchange rates, may require us to return cash collateral held or may require us to access primary liquidity to post collateral to counterparties. If our credit ratings are downgraded from current levels, we may be required to segregate additional unrestricted cash collateral into restricted accounts. 78 Table of Contents The table below highlights exposure related to our derivative counterparties at December 31, 2011. (Dollars in millions) SLM Corporationand Sallie Mae BankContracts Securitization TrustContracts(1) Exposure, net of collateral $ 113 $ 807 Percent of exposure to counterparties with credit ratings below S&P AA or Moodys Aa3 98 % 32 % Percent of exposure to counterparties with credit ratings below S&P A or Moodys A3 0 % 0 % (1) Current turmoil in the European markets has led to increased disclosure of exposure to those markets. Of the total net exposure, $691 million is related to financial institutions located in France; of this amount, $498 million carries a guarantee from the French government. $690 million of the $691 million exposure relates to derivatives held at our securitization trusts. Counterparties to these derivatives are required to post collateral when their credit rating is withdrawn or downgraded below a certain level. As of December 31, 2011, no collateral was required to be posted. Adjustments are made to our derivative valuations for counterparty credit risk. The adjustments made at December 31, 2011 related to derivatives with French financial institutions (including those that carry a guarantee from the French government) decreased the derivative asset value by $179 million. Credit risks for all derivative counterparties are assessed internally on a continual basis. Core Earnings Basis Borrowings The following tables present the ending balances of our Core Earnings basis borrowings at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, and average balances and average interest rates of our Core Earnings basis borrowings for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. The average interest rates include derivatives that are economically hedging the underlying debt but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. (See Core Earnings Definition and Limitations Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP Reclassification of Realized Gains (Losses) on Derivative and Hedging Activities of this Item 7). Ending Balances December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) ShortTerm LongTerm Total ShortTerm LongTerm Total ShortTerm LongTerm Total Unsecured borrowings: Senior unsecured debt $ 1,801 $ 15,199 $ 17,000 $ 4,361 $ 15,742 $ 20,103 $ 5,185 $ 22,797 $ 27,982 Brokered deposits 1,733 1,956 3,689 1,387 3,160 4,547 842 4,795 5,637 Retail and other deposits 2,123 2,123 1,370 1,370 204 204 Other(1) 1,329 1,329 887 887 1,268 1,268 Total unsecured borrowings 6,986 17,155 24,141 8,005 18,902 26,907 7,499 27,592 35,091 Secured borrowings: FFELP Loans securitizations 107,905 107,905 113,671 113,671 64 103,724 103,788 Private Education Loans securitizations 19,297 19,297 21,409 21,409 20,624 20,624 ED Conduit Program Facility 21,313 21,313 24,484 24,484 14,314 14,314 ED Participation Program Facility 9,006 9,006 FFELP ABCP Facility 4,445 4,445 5,853 5,853 8,801 8,801 Private Education Loans ABCP Facility 1,992 1,992 Acquisition financing(2) 916 916 1,064 1,064 FHLB DM Facility 1,210 1,210 900 900 Total secured borrowings 22,523 134,555 157,078 25,384 141,997 167,381 23,384 133,149 156,533 Total $ 29,509 $ 151,710 $ 181,219 $ 33,389 $ 160,899 $ 194,288 $ 30,883 $ 160,741 $ 191,624 (1) Other primarily consists of the obligation to return cash collateral held related to derivative exposure. (2) Relates to the acquisition of $25 billion of student loans at the end of 2010. 79 Table of Contents Secured borrowings comprised 87 percent of our Core Earnings basis debt outstanding at December 31, 2011 versus 86 percent at December 31, 2010. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) AverageBalance AverageRate AverageBalance AverageRate AverageBalance AverageRate Unsecured borrowings: Senior unsecured debt $ 19,562 2.34 % $ 24,480 1.70 % $ 31,863 1.77 % Brokered deposits 3,660 2.35 5,123 2.65 4,754 3.50 Retail and other deposits 1,684 1.11 644 1.16 128 .59 Other(1) 1,187 .17 1,159 .19 1,263 .28 Total unsecured borrowings 26,093 2.16 31,406 1.79 38,008 1.94 Secured borrowings: FFELP Loans securitizations 110,474 .93 100,967 .87 105,069 1.15 Private Education Loans securitizations 20,976 2.17 21,367 2.13 17,731 1.83 ED Conduit Program Facility 22,869 .75 15,096 .70 7,340 .75 ED Participation Program Facility 13,537 .81 14,174 1.43 FFELP ABCP Facility 4,989 1.05 6,623 1.24 15,401 2.79 Private Education Loans ABCP Facility 272 2.08 838 5.56 Acquisition financing(2) 998 4.81 3 5.28 FHLB DM Facility 893 .25 403 .35 Total secured borrowings 161,471 1.09 157,996 1.03 160,553 1.41 Total $ 187,564 1.24 % $ 189,402 1.16 % $ 198,561 1.51 % (1) Other primarily consists of the obligation to return cash collateral held related to derivative exposure. (2) Relates to the acquisition of $25 billion of student loans at the end of 2010. Contractual Cash Obligations The following table provides a summary of our obligations associated with long term notes at December 31, 2011. For further discussion of these obligations, see Note 6 Borrowings. (Dollars in millions) 1 Yearor Less 2 to 3Years 4 to 5Years Over5 Years Total Long term notes: Senior unsecured debt $ $ 5,354 $ 3,012 $ 6,833 $ 15,199 Unsecured term bank deposits 1,956 1,956 Secured borrowings(1) 12,795 26,933 18,949 75,878 134,555 Total contractual cash obligations(2) $ 12,795 $ 34,243 $ 21,961 $ 82,711 $ 151,710 (1) Includes long term beneficial interests of $127.2 billion of notes issued by consolidated VIEs in conjunction with our securitization transactions and included in long term notes in the consolidated balance sheet. Timing of obligations is estimated based on our current projection of prepayment speeds of the securitized assets. (2) The aggregate principal amount of debt that matures in each period is $12.9 billion, $34.5 billion, $22.1 billion and $83.3 billion, respectively. Specifically excludes derivative market value adjustments of $2.7 billion for long term notes. Interest obligations on notes are predominantly variable in nature, resetting quarterly based on 3 month LIBOR. Unrecognized tax benefits were $40 million and $39 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. For additional information, see Note 15 Income Taxes. 80 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations addresses our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP). Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies includes a summary of the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results may differ from these estimates under varying assumptions or conditions. On a quarterly basis, management evaluates its estimates, particularly those that include the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments and are often about matters that are inherently uncertain. The most significant judgments, estimates and assumptions relate to the following critical accounting policies that are discussed in more detail below. Allowance for Loan Losses In determining the allowance for loan losses, we estimate the principal amount of loans that will default over the next two years (two years being the expected period between a loss event and default) and how much we will recover over time related to the defaulted amount. Our historical experience indicates that, on average, the time between the date that a borrower experiences a default causing event (e.g., the loss trigger event) and the date that we charge off the unrecoverable portion of that loan is two years. Additionally, we estimate an allowance amount sufficient to cover life of loan expected losses for loans classified as a troubled debt restructuring (see further discussion below). In the first quarter of 2011, we implemented a new model to estimate the Private Education Loan default amount. Both the prior model and new model are considered migration models. Our prior allowance model (in place through December 31, 2010) segmented the portfolio into categories of similar risk characteristics of which we consider school type, credit scores, existence of a cosigner, loan status and loan seasoning as the key credit quality indicators. Our new model uses these credit quality indicators, but incorporates a more granular segmentation of seasoning data into the calculation. Another change in the new allowance model relates to the historical period of experience that we use as a starting point for projecting future defaults. Our new model is based upon a seasonal average, adjusted to the most recent three to six months of actual collection experience as the starting point and applies expected macroeconomic changes and collection procedure changes to estimate expected losses caused by loss events incurred as of the balance sheet date. Our previous model primarily used a one year historical default experience period and incorporated the estimated impact of macroeconomic factors and collection procedure changes on a qualitative basis. Our current model places a greater emphasis on the more recent default experience rather than the default experience for older historical periods, as we believe the recent default experience is more indicative of the probable losses incurred in the loan portfolio today. While we incorporated the new model in the first quarter of 2011, the overall process for calculating the appropriate amount of allowance for Private Education Loan loss did not change. Significantly more judgment has been required over the last several years, compared with years prior, in light of the U.S. economy and its effect on our customers ability to pay their obligations. We believe that the current model more accurately reflects recent borrower behavior, loan performance, and collection performance, as well as expectations about economic factors. There was no adjustment to our allowance for loan loss upon implementing this new default projection model in the first quarter of 2011. Similar to estimating defaults, we begin with historical borrower payment behavior to estimate the timing and amount of future recoveries on Private Education Loan defaults. We use judgment in determining whether historical performance is representative of what we expect to recover in the future. In contrast to the overall improvements in credit quality, delinquency and charge off trends we saw in 2011, Private Education Loans which defaulted between 2008 and 2011 for which we have previously charged off estimated losses have, to varying degrees, not met our recovery expectations to date and may continue not to do so. (See Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis Consumer Lending Segment Private Education Loans Provision for Loan Losses and Charge offs of this Item 7, for further discussion.) 81 Table of Contents On July 1, 2011, we adopted Accounting Standards Update No. 2011 02, Receivables (Topic 310), A Creditors Determination of Whether a Restructuring Is a Troubled Debt Restructuring. This new guidance clarifies when a loan restructuring constitutes a troubled debt restructuring. In applying the new guidance we have determined that certain Private Education Loans for which we have granted forbearance of greater than three months are classified as troubled debt restructurings. If a loan meets the criteria for troubled debt accounting then an allowance for loan loss is established which represents the present value of the losses that are expected to occur over the remaining life of the loan. This accounting results in a higher allowance for loan losses than our previously established allowance for these loans as our previous allowance for these loans represented an estimate of charge offs expected to occur over the next two years (two years being our loss confirmation period). The new accounting guidance was effective as of July 1, 2011 but was required to be applied retrospectively to January 1, 2011. This resulted in $124 million of additional provision for loan losses in the third quarter of 2011 from approximately $3.8 billion of student loans being classified as troubled debt restructurings. This new accounting guidance is only applied to certain borrowers who use their fourth or greater month of forbearance during the time period this new guidance is effective. This new accounting guidance has the effect of accelerating the recognition of expected losses related to our Private Education Loan portfolio. The increase in the provision for losses as a result of this new accounting guidance does not reflect a decrease in credit expectations of the portfolio or an increase in the expected life of loan losses related to this portfolio. We believe forbearance is an accepted and effective collections and risk management tool for Private Education Loans. We plan to continue to use forbearance and as a result, we expect to have additional loans classified as troubled debt restructurings in the future (see Financial Condition Consumer Lending Portfolio Performance Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses of this Item 7. for a further discussion on the use of forbearance as a collection tool). FFELP Loans are insured as to their principal and accrued interest in the event of default subject to a Risk Sharing level based on the date of loan disbursement. These insurance obligations are supported by contractual rights against the United States. For loans disbursed after October 1, 1993, and before July 1, 2006, we receive 98 percent reimbursement on all qualifying default claims. For loans disbursed on or after July 1, 2006, we receive 97 percent reimbursement. For loans disbursed prior to October 1, 1993, we receive 100 percent reimbursement. The allowance for FFELP Loan losses uses historical experience of borrower default behavior and a two year loss confirmation period to estimate the credit losses incurred in the loan portfolio at the reporting date. We apply the default rate projections, net of applicable Risk Sharing, to each category for the current period to perform our quantitative calculation. Once the quantitative calculation is performed, we review the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses and determine if qualitative adjustments need to be considered. Premium and Discount Amortization The most judgmental estimate for premium and discount amortization on student loans is the Constant Prepayment Rate (CPR), which measures the rate at which loans in the portfolio pay down principal compared to their stated terms. Loan consolidation, default, term extension and other prepayment factors affecting our CPR estimates are affected by changes in our business strategy, changes in our competitors business strategies, FFELP legislative changes, interest rates and changes to the current economic and credit environment. When we determine the CPR we begin with historical prepayment rates due to consolidation activity, defaults, payoffs and term extensions from the utilization of forbearance. We make judgments about which historical period to start with and then make further judgments about whether that historical experience is representative of future expectations and whether additional adjustment may be needed to those historical prepayment rates. In the past the consolidation of FFELP Loans and Private Education Loans significantly affected our CPRs and updating those assumptions often resulted in material adjustments to our amortization expense. As a result of the passage of HCERA, there is no longer the ability to consolidate under the FFELP. In addition, due to the current U.S. economic and credit environment, we, as well as many other industry competitors, have suspended our Private Education Loans consolidation program. As a result, we do not expect to consolidate FFELP Loans 82 Table of Contents in the future and do not currently expect others to actively consolidate our FFELP loans. As a result, we expect CPRs related to our FFELP Loans to remain relatively stable over time. See Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis FFELP Loans Segment of this Item 7, for discussion of the potential impact of a recent Special Direct Consolidation Loan Initiative. We expect that in the future both we and our competitors will begin to consolidate Private Education Loans. This is built into the CPR assumption we use for Private Education Loans. However, it is difficult to accurately project the timing and level at which this consolidation activity will begin and our assumption may need to be updated by a material amount in the future based on changes in the economy and marketplace. The level of defaults is a significant component of our FFELP Loan and Private Education Loan CPR. This component of the FFELP Loan and Private Education Loan CPR is estimated in the same manner as discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Allowance for Loan Loss of this Item 7 the only difference is for premium and discount amortization purposes the estimate of defaults is a life of loan estimate whereas for allowance for loan loss it is a two year estimate. Fair Value Measurement The most significant assumptions used in fair value measurements, including those related to credit and liquidity risk, are as follows: 1. Investments Our investments primarily consist of overnight/weekly maturity instruments with high credit quality counterparties. However, we consider credit and liquidity risk involving specific instruments in determining their fair value and, when appropriate, have adjusted the fair value of these instruments for the effect of credit and liquidity risk. These assumptions have further been validated by the successful maturity of these investments in the period immediately following the end of the reporting period. 2. Derivatives When determining the fair value of derivatives, we take into account counterparty credit risk for positions where we are exposed to the counterparty on a net basis by assessing exposure net of collateral held. The net exposure for each counterparty is adjusted based on market information available for that specific counterparty, including spreads from credit default swaps. Additionally, when the counterparty has exposure to us related to our derivatives, we fully collateralize the exposure, minimizing the adjustment necessary to the derivative valuations for our own credit risk. Trusts that contain derivatives are not required to post collateral to counterparties as the credit quality and securitized nature of the trusts minimizes any adjustments for the counterpartys exposure to the trusts. Adjustments related to credit risk reduced the overall value of our derivatives by $190 million as of December 31, 2011. We also take into account changes in liquidity when determining the fair value of derivative positions. We adjusted the fair value of certain less liquid positions downward by approximately $111 million to take into account a significant reduction in liquidity as of December 31, 2011, related primarily to basis swaps indexed to interest rate indices with inactive markets. A major indicator of market inactivity is the widening of the bid/ask spread in these markets. In general, the widening of counterparty credit spreads and reduced liquidity for derivative instruments as indicated by wider bid/ask spreads will reduce the fair value of derivatives. In addition, certain cross currency interest rate swaps hedging foreign currency denominated reset rate and amortizing notes in our trusts contain extension features that coincide with the remarketing dates of the notes. The valuation of the extension feature requires significant judgment based on internally developed inputs. 3. Student Loans Our FFELP Loans and Private Education Loans are accounted for at cost or at the lower of cost or fair value if the loan is held for sale. The fair values of our student loans are disclosed in Note 13 Fair Value Measurements. For both FFELP Loans and Private Education Loans accounted for at cost, fair value is determined by modeling loan level cash flows using stated terms of the assets and internally developed assumptions to determine aggregate portfolio yield, net present value and average life. The significant assumptions used to project cash flows are prepayment speeds, default rates, cost of funds, the amount funded by debt versus equity, and required return on equity. In addition, the Floor Income component of our FFELP Loan portfolio is valued through discounted cash 83 Table of Contents flow and option models using both observable market inputs and internally developed inputs. Significant inputs into the models are not generally market observable. They are either derived internally through a combination of historical experience and managements qualitative expectation of future performance (in the case of prepayment speeds, default rates, and capital assumptions) or are obtained through external broker quotes (as in the case of cost of funds). When possible, market transactions are used to validate the model. In most cases, these are either infrequent or not observable. For FFELP Loans classified as held for sale and accounted for at the lower of cost or market, the fair value is based on the committed sales price of the various loan purchase programs established by ED. For further information regarding the effect of our use of fair values on our results of operations, see Note 13 Fair Value Measurements. Transfers of Financial Assets and the Variable Interest Entity (VIE) Consolidation Model Changes in Accounting Principles effective January 1, 2010 The new consolidation accounting adopted on January 1, 2010 significantly changed the consolidation model for Variable Interest Entities (VIEs). This new rule, among other things, (1) eliminated the exemption for QSPEs, (2) provided a new approach for determining who should consolidate a VIE that is more focused on control rather than economic interest, (3) changed when it is necessary to reassess who should consolidate a VIE and (4) required additional disclosure. Under these new rules, if we have a variable interest in a VIE and we have determined that we are the primary beneficiary of the VIE then we will consolidate the VIE. We are considered the primary beneficiary if we have both: (1) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIEs economic performance and (2) the obligation to absorb losses or receive benefits of the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE. There is considerable judgment that has to be used as it relates to determining the primary beneficiary of the VIEs with which we are associated. There are no bright line tests. Rather, the assessment of who has the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly affects the VIEs economic performance and who has the obligation to absorb losses or receive benefits of the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE is very qualitative and judgmental in nature. However, based on our current relationship with our securitization trusts and other financing vehicles which are considered VIEs, we believe the assessment is more straightforward. As it relates to our securitized assets, we are the servicer of those securitized assets (which means we have the power to direct the activities of the trust) and we own the Residual Interest (which means we have the loss and gain obligation that could potentially be significant to the VIE) of the securitization trusts. As a result we are the primary beneficiary of our securitization trusts and other financing vehicles. See Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies for further details regarding the adoption of these new rules on January 1, 2010. Derivative Accounting The most significant judgments related to derivative accounting are: (1) concluding the derivative is an effective hedge and qualifies for hedge accounting and (2) determining the fair value of certain derivatives and hedged items. To qualify for hedge accounting a derivative must be concluded to be a highly effective hedge upon designation and on an ongoing basis. There are no bright line tests on what is considered a highly effective hedge. We use a historical regression analysis to prove ongoing and prospective hedge effectiveness. See previous discussion under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Fair Value Measurement of this Item 7 for significant judgments related to the valuation of derivatives. Although some of our valuations are more judgmental than others, we compare the fair values of our derivatives that we calculate to those provided by our counterparties on a monthly basis. We view this as a critical control which helps validate these judgments. Any significant differences with our counterparties are identified and resolved appropriately. 84 Table of Contents Goodwill and Intangible Assets In determining annually (or more frequently if required) whether goodwill is impaired, we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit, which is the same as or one level below a business segment, is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform additional goodwill impairment testing. The more likely than not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. If this more likely than not threshold is met, then we will complete a quantitative goodwill impairment analysis which consists of a comparison of the fair value of the reporting unit to our carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, a goodwill impairment analysis will be performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. If we determine that this event has occurred, we perform an analysis to determine the fair value of the business unit. There are significant judgments involved in determining the fair value of a business unit, including assumptions regarding estimates of future cash flows from existing and new business activities, customer relationships, the value of existing customer contracts, the value of other tangible and intangible assets, as well as assumptions regarding what we believe a third party would be willing to pay for all of the assets and liabilities of the business unit. This calculation requires us to estimate the appropriate discount and growth rates to apply to those projected cash flows and the appropriate control premium to apply to arrive at the final fair value. The business units for which we must estimate the fair value are not publicly traded and often there is not comparable market data available for that individual business to aid in its valuation. We use a third party appraisal firm to provide an opinion on the fair values we conclude upon. Risk Management Our Approach The products, services and markets in which we operate, as well as the various regulatory authorities and regimes to which our businesses, financial condition and lending practices are subject, continue to undergo dramatic change. We recognize that to maintain our reputation with customers and protect the interests of our shareholders and other key constituencies we must continually refresh our understanding of each of our business models, identify and manage the risks related to each of these businesses. Risk management, assessment and oversight responsibilities exist and are documented, reviewed and coordinated at various levels of the Company. Risk Oversight Our Board of Directors and its standing committees oversee our overall strategic direction, including setting our risk management philosophy, tolerance and parameters; and establishing procedures for assessing the risks our businesses face as well as the risk management practices our management team develop and utilize. We escalate to our Board of Directors any significant departures from established tolerances and parameters and review new and emerging risks. In 2011, our Board of Directors invested significant time and effort in continuing to consider and address changes in our risk profile resulting from the end of FFELP in 2010. Particular attention was paid to the strategic redirection of our businesses into consumer lending products and various strategies for expanding our business services opportunities. The format of our strategic business plan, key performance measures and related risk tolerances and parameters and escalation procedures were revised accordingly. Our Board of Directors also directed our Legal, Compliance and Internal Audit groups to work with management and the Board to review and report on the state of existing Board and management risk practices and procedures and to undertake such improvements as the Board of Directors or its committees may direct. The standing committees of our Board of Directors and their current risk oversight portfolios are as follows: Executive Committee has full authority of our Board of Directors to take action when the Board is not in session and includes all board committee chairs, lead outside director, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and 85 Table of Contents Chairman. Key risk functions include working with management to establish and present to our Board of Directors acceptable risk tolerances and parameters for the Company; periodic review and allocation of oversight of particular risks to the committees of the Board for oversight and reporting to the Board of Directors; and advance review with the Audit Committee of all our earnings releases, periodic reports and managements opinions on business outlook and financial guidance. Finance and Operations Committee assists the Board of Directors through its oversight and reporting on capital management, funding/liquidity strategy, acquisitions, and business operation matters. Key risk functions include monitoring our managements performance within agreed risk parameters and tolerances with respect to all aspects of our operational and financial risk profile, including our Private Education Loan programs and new product initiatives; credit, interest rate and currency risks; investment, asset, and liability management policies and contingency funding plan. Audit Committee assists the Board of Directors through its oversight and reporting on the integrity of our financial statements and internal controls processes. Key risk functions include periodically reviewing our financial statements and public disclosures and financial and disclosure policies and underlying assumptions; the qualifications, performance and independence of our independent auditors and Internal Audit group; managements efforts and effectiveness in managing legal and regulatory compliance and litigation risks; the risk assessment, audit plans and conduct of the Internal Audit group; our information security practices and procedures; and compliance with material aspects of the our Code of Business Conduct and related policies regarding independence and transactions with affiliates. Compensation and Personnel Committee assists the Board of Directors through its oversight and reporting matters of executive compensation and personnel. Key risk functions include the approval of compensation, benefits and employment arrangements for our CEO, other senior executive officers and the independent members of the Board; approval of all equity based plans; general oversight of all benefit, compensation and incentive plans applicable to executive management; consideration of the risk management review of compensation practices conducted at least annually by our Chief Credit and Chief Compliance Officers; advising on various human resources matters, including succession planning and talent management. Nominating and Governance Committee assists the Board of Directors through its oversight and reporting of appropriate standards for governance, board operations and qualifications and recommendations of directors. Key risk functions include establishing appropriate standards for corporate governance and guidelines, conducting our Board of Directors annual self assessment survey and taking actions regarding its results as relates to improving the operations of the Board of Directors, the qualifications of its directors and succession planning at the Board of Directors and CEO levels. Strategy Committee This committee engages the CEO and senior management from time to time to develop and prepare for the Board of Directors annual strategic planning process and facilitate the exchange of information and ideas with our management team in their development of proposals to be considered and approved by the Board of Directors regarding our long term strategic agenda and initiatives. The committee has no separate or delegated authority from that of our Board of Directors. Risk Assessment Our Internal Audit Department monitors our various risk management and compliance efforts, identifies areas that may require increased focus and resources, and reports significant control issues and recommendations to executive management and the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. At least annually, Internal Audit performs a risk assessment to identify our top risks and to help develop the annual internal audit plan. Risks are rated on significance and likelihood of occurrence and communicated to our management team members who allocate appropriate attention and resources. The risk assessment focuses on those risks most relevant to us and our subsidiaries (including the Bank). The assessment process includes completion of an anonymous survey by our officers followed by interviews with and reports to senior leadership. 86 Table of Contents Risk Management Our senior executive management team, individually and through participation in or more of our internal risk management committees, are ultimately responsible for the management of risk across our businesses. Each of these committees or their senior executive sponsors have specified periodic reporting and issue escalation obligations to our Board of Directors and their standing committees. Our key internal risk management committees currently include: Disclosure Committee reviews and approves content of periodic SEC reporting documents, earnings releases and related disclosure policies and procedures. Loan Loss Reserve Committee oversees the sufficiency of our loan loss reserves and considers current or emerging issues affecting delinquency and default trends which may result in adjustments in our allowances for loan losses. Critical Accounting Assumptions Committee oversees critical accounting assumptions, as well as key judgments and estimates, utilized in preparation of our financial statements. Asset and Liability Committee oversees our investment portfolio and strategy and our compliance with our investment policy. Corporate Credit Committee oversees the overall credit and portfolio management strategy, policy review and monitoring. Corporate Compliance Committee oversees regulatory compliance risk management activities for Sallie Mae and its affiliates. ICE Steering Committee oversees our Internal Controls Excellence (ICE) initiative and Sarbanes Oxley compliance and sponsors periodic forums in which the top internal control deficiencies are discussed and analyzed to ensure the control deficiencies are identified, understood by all relevant affected parties, and have established resolution plans supported by adequate resources. Customer Products and Services Assessment Committee considers all matters relating to risks affecting us and our wholly and majority owned subsidiaries associated with new, expanded, or modified products or services and makes recommendations regarding proposed products or service offerings based on their inherent risks and controls. Each business segment is primarily responsible and accountable for managing risks specific to its area utilizing formalized processes and procedures that have been developed by each division in collaboration with internal risk management partners to identify, monitor, manage and escalate the risks specific to that business segments activities. Our executive management team and internal risk management partners, including compliance, credit risk, human resources, legal, information technology, finance and accounting, and information security are responsible for providing our business segments with the training, systems and specialized expertise necessary to properly perform their risk management duties. Our Significant Risks Significant risks may be grouped into the following categories: (1) funding and liquidity; (2) operational; (3) political/reputational; (4) market; (5) credit; and (6) legal and compliance. More specific descriptions of the particular risks of each type we currently face are discussed in Item 1A Risk Factors above. Funding and Liquidity Risk Management Funding and liquidity risk involves our potential inability to fund liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, fund asset growth and business operations, and meet contractual obligations at reasonable market 87 Table of Contents rates. Our primary liquidity objective is to ensure our ongoing ability to meet our funding needs for our businesses throughout market cycles, including during periods of financial stress. Our two primary liquidity risks involve our ongoing ability to originate Private Education Loans and retire indebtedness as it matures. Key objectives associated with our funding liquidity needs relate to our ability to access the capital markets at reasonable rates and to continue to maintain retail deposits and funding sources through the Bank. Our funding and liquidity risk management activities are centralized within our Corporate Finance department, which is responsible for planning and executing our funding activities and strategies. We analyze and monitor our liquidity risk, maintain excess liquidity and access diverse funding sources depending on current market conditions. Funding and liquidity risks are overseen and recommendations approved primarily through our internal Asset and Liability Committee. The Finance and Operations Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for periodically reviewing and approving our funding and liquidity positions and contingency funding plan. Our Board of Directors also receives regular reports on our performance against funding and liquidity plans at each meeting. Operational Risk Management Operational risk arises from the potential that inadequate information systems, operational problems, breaches in internal controls, fraud, or unforeseen catastrophes will result in unexpected losses. The cornerstone of our annual operational risk management program involves our Board of Directors approval of our annual strategic business plan and managements recommendations for how to grow our business while focused on managing risks to acceptable parameters. Our Board of Directors receives operations reports (which includes operating metrics and performance against annual plan) from our Chief Executive and Chief Operating Officers at each regularly scheduled meeting. Additionally, the Finance & Operations Committee receives business development updates regarding our various business initiatives that provide information and metrics about each key component of business operations. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors receives periodic information security updates and reviews operational and systems related matters to insure their implementation produce no significant internal control issues. Operational risk exposures are managed through a combination of business line management and enterprise wide oversight. Our Chief Operating Officer (COO) is responsible for all of our business operations (credit, servicing, collections, and technology). Management committees, comprised of senior managers and subject matter experts, focus on particular aspects of operational risk. Enterprise wide oversight is conducted by a number of our internal risk management committees listed above. Most comprehensively, the Customer Products and Services Assessment Committee confirms that in connection with new, expanded, or modified products or services it recommends for approval that all significant risks are properly identified; adequate controls are in place to monitor risks to established, prudent limits; and monitoring of risk management activities, exposures, and issues are performed. Market Risk Management Market risk is the risk to our financial condition resulting from adverse movements in market rates or prices, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads or equity prices. We are exposed to various types of market risk, in particular interest rate risk and other risks that arise through the management of our investment portfolio. Market risk exposures are managed through our internal Asset and Liability Committee. The responsibilities of this committee include: maintaining oversight and responsibility for all risks associated with managing our assets and liabilities, and recommending limits to be included in our risk appetite and investment structure. These activities are closely tied to those related to the management of our funding and liquidity risks. Consequently, the Finance and Operations Committee of the Board of Directors is also responsible for periodically reviewing and approving our investment and asset and liability management policies and contingency funding plan. The Finance and Operations Committee as well as our Chief Financial Officer report to the full Board of Directors on matters of market risk management. 88 Table of Contents Political and Reputation Risk Management Political and reputation risk is the risk that changes in laws and regulations or actions affecting impacting our reputation could affect the profitability and sustainability of our business. Management proactively assesses and manages political and reputation risk. Our government relations team of employees manages our review and response to all formal inquiries from members of Congress, state legislators, and their staff, including providing targeted messaging that reinforces our public policy goals. We review and consider political and reputational risks on an integrated basis in connection with the risk management oversight activities conducted in the various aspects of our business on matters as diverse as the launch of new products and services, our credit underwriting activities and how we fund our operations. Our public relations, marketing and media teams constantly monitor our perception in print, electronic and social media; actively provide assistance and support to our customers and other constituencies and maintain and promote the value of our considerable corporate brand. Significant political and reputation risks are reported to and monitored by the Finance and Operations Committee of our Board of Directors. Our Legal, Government Relations and Compliance groups efforts are coordinated through our General Counsel and regularly meet and collaborate with our Media and Investor Relations teams to provide more coordinated monitoring and management of our political and reputational risks. Credit and Counterparty Risk Management Credit and counterparty risk is the risk of loss stemming from one partys failure to repay a loan or otherwise meet a contractual obligation. We have credit or counterparty risk exposure with borrowers and co borrowers with whom we have made Private Education Loans, the various counterparties with whom we have entered into derivative contracts, the various issuers with whom we make investments, and with several higher education institutions related to academic facilities loans secured by real estate. Credit and counterparty risks are overseen by our Chief Credit Officer, his staff and the internal risk management committee he chairs. Our Chief Credit Officer reports regularly to our Board of Directors, Finance and Operations and Audit Committees with respect to the various matters of which each have oversight. The credit risk related to Private Education Loans are managed within a credit risk infrastructure which includes (i) a well defined underwriting and collection policy framework; (ii) an ongoing monitoring and review process of portfolio segments and trends; (iii) assignment and management of credit authorities and responsibilities; and (iv) establishment of an allowance for loan losses that covers estimated losses based upon portfolio and economic analysis. Credit and counterparty risk related to derivative contracts is managed by reviewing counterparties for credit strength on an ongoing basis and via our credit policies, which place limits on the amount of exposure we may take with any one counterparty and, in most cases, require collateral to secure the position. The credit and counterparty risk associated with derivatives is measured based on the replacement cost should the counterparties with contracts in a gain position to the Company fail to perform under the terms of the contract. Compliance and Legal Risk Management Compliance risk is the operational risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, financial loss or damage to reputation resulting from failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, other regulatory requirements, or codes of conduct and other standards of self regulatory organizations applicable to us. Legal risk arises, in part, from the potential that unenforceable contracts, lawsuits or adverse judgments can disrupt or otherwise negatively affect our operations or condition. These risks are inherent in all of our businesses. Both compliance and legal risk are sub sets of operational risk but are recognized as a separate and complementary risk category given their importance in our business. We can be exposed to regulatory and compliance risk in key areas such as our private education lending, collections or loan servicing businesses if compliance with legal and regulatory requirements is not properly implemented, documented or tested, as well as when an oversight program does not include appropriate audit and control features. 89 Table of Contents The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors has oversight over the establishment of standards related to our monitoring and control of regulatory and compliance risks and the qualification of employees overseeing these risk management functions. The Audit Committee annually approves our Corporate Compliance Plan, has responsibility for considering significant breaches of our Code of Business Conduct and receives regular reports from executive management team members responsible for the regulatory and compliance risk management functions. Primary ownership and responsibility for regulatory and compliance risk is placed with the business segments to manage their specific regulatory and compliance risks. Our Compliance group supports these activities by providing extensive training, monitoring and testing of the processes, policies and procedures utilized by our business segments, maintaining consumer lending regulatory and information security policies and procedures, and working in close coordination with our Legal group. Our Corporate Compliance Committee serves as a regular internal forum where key compliance issues and risks are discussed and business, compliance and legal professional review testing of existing regulatory compliance procedures and approve new or revised procedures. Our Code of Business Conduct and the on going training our employees receive in many compliance areas provide a framework for our employees to conduct themselves with the highest integrity. We instill a risk conscious culture through communications, training, policies and procedures. We have strengthened the linkage between the management performance process and individual compensation to encourage employees to work toward corporate wide compliance goals. Common Stock The following table summarizes our common share repurchases and issuances. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Common stock repurchased 19,054,115 Average purchase price per share $ 15.77 $ $ Shares repurchased related to employee stock based compensation plans(1) 3,024,662 1,097,647 263,640 Average purchase price per share $ 15.71 $ 13.44 $ 20.29 Authority remaining at end of period for repurchases 38,841,923 38,841,923 Common shares issued 3,886,217 1,803,683 536,134 (1) Comprises shares withheld from stock option exercises and vesting of restricted stock for employees tax withholding obligations and shares tendered by employees to satisfy option exercise costs. The closing price of our common stock on December 31, 2011 was $13.40. Our shareholders have authorized the issuance of 1.125 billion shares of common stock (par value of $.20). At December 31, 2011, 509 million shares were issued and outstanding and 34.9 million shares were unissued but encumbered for outstanding stock options for employee compensation and remaining authority for stock based compensation plans. The stock based compensation plans are described in Note 11, Stock Based Compensation Plans and Arrangements. In March 2011, we retired 70 million shares of common stock held in treasury. This retirement decreased the balance in treasury stock by $1.9 billion, with corresponding decreases of $14 million in common stock and $1.9 billion in additional paid in capital. There was no impact to total equity from this transaction. During 2009, we converted $339 million of our Series C Preferred Stock to common stock. As part of this conversion, we delivered to the holders of the preferred stock: (1) approximately 17 million shares (the number 90 Table of Contents of common shares they would most likely receive if the preferred stock they held mandatorily converted to common shares in the fourth quarter of 2010) plus (2) a discounted amount of the preferred stock dividends the holders of the preferred stock would have received if they held the preferred stock through the mandatory conversion date. The accounting treatment for this conversion resulted in additional dividends recorded as part of preferred stock dividends for the year of approximately $53 million. On December 15, 2010, the mandatory conversion date, the remaining 810,370 shares of our Series C Preferred Stock were converted into 41 million shares of common stock. Dividend and Share Repurchase Program On June 17, 2011, September 16, 2011, and December 16, 2011, we paid a quarterly dividend of $.10 per share on our common stock, the first dividends paid since early 2007. In April 2011, we authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of outstanding common stock in open market transactions and terminated all previous authorizations. During the second and third quarters of 2011, we repurchased 19.1 million shares for an aggregate purchase price of $300 million. With this action, we fully utilized this share repurchase authorization. On January 26, 2012, we increased the quarterly dividend on our common stock to $.125 per share. The next such quarterly dividend will be paid on March 16, 2012. We also authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of outstanding common stock in open market transactions. 91 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis Our interest rate risk management seeks to limit the impact of short term movements in interest rates on our results of operations and financial position. The following tables summarize the potential effect on earnings over the next 12 months and the potential effect on fair values of balance sheet assets and liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010, based upon a sensitivity analysis performed by management assuming a hypothetical increase in market interest rates of 100 basis points and 300 basis points while funding spreads remain constant. Additionally, as it relates to the effect on earnings, a sensitivity analysis was performed assuming the funding index increases 25 basis points while holding the asset index constant, if the funding index is different than the asset index. The earnings sensitivity is applied only to financial assets and liabilities, including hedging instruments, that existed at the balance sheet date and does not take into account new assets, liabilities or hedging instruments that may arise in 2012. As of December 31, 2011Impact on Annual Earnings If: As of December 31, 2010Impact on Annual Earnings If: Interest Rates: FundingSpreads Interest Rates: FundingSpreads (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Increase100 BasisPoints Increase300 BasisPoints Increase25 BasisPoints(1) Increase100 BasisPoints Increase300 BasisPoints Increase25 BasisPoints(1) Effect on Earnings Change in pre tax net income before unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities $ 3 $ 61 $ (419 ) $ (129 ) $ (140 ) $ (368 ) Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities 493 814 (16 ) 131 82 (28 ) Increase in net income before taxes $ 496 $ 875 $ (435 ) $ 2 $ (58 ) $ (396 ) Increase in diluted earnings per common share $ .965 $ 1.702 $ (.846 ) $ .004 $ (0.110 ) $ (.746 ) (1) If an asset is not funded with the same index/frequency reset of the asset then it is assumed the funding index increases 25 basis points while holding the asset index constant. 92 Table of Contents At December 31, 2011 Interest Rates: Change fromIncrease of100 BasisPoints Change fromIncrease of300 BasisPoints (Dollars in millions) Fair Value $ % $ % Effect on Fair Values Assets Total FFELP Loans $ 134,196 $ (665 ) % $ (1,335 ) (1 )% Private Education Loans 33,968 Other earning assets 9,871 (1 ) Other assets 8,943 (639 ) (7 ) (1,420 ) (16 )% Total assets gain/(loss) $ 186,978 $ (1,304 ) (1 )% $ (2,756 ) (1 )% Liabilities Interest bearing liabilities $ 171,152 $ (730 ) % $ (2,002 ) (1 )% Other liabilities 4,128 (617 ) (15 ) (801 ) (19 ) Total liabilities (gain)/loss $ 175,280 $ (1,347 ) (1 )% $ (2,803 ) (2 )% At December 31, 2010 Interest Rates: Change fromIncrease of100 BasisPoints Change fromIncrease of300 BasisPoints (Dollars in millions) Fair Value $ % $ % Effect on Fair Values Assets Total FFELP Loans $ 147,163 $ (649 ) % $ (1,318 ) (1 )% Private Education Loans 30,949 Other earning assets 11,641 (1 ) (2 ) Other assets 9,449 (565 ) (6 ) (996 ) (11 )% Total assets gain/(loss) $ 199,202 $ (1,215 ) (1 )% $ (2,316 ) (1 )% Liabilities Interest bearing liabilities $ 187,959 $ (704 ) % $ (1,938 ) (1 )% Other liabilities 3,136 (217 ) (7 ) 257 8 Total liabilities (gain)/loss $ 191,095 $ (921 ) % $ (1,681 ) (1 )% A primary objective in our funding is to minimize our sensitivity to changing interest rates by generally funding our floating rate student loan portfolio with floating rate debt. However, due to the ability of some FFELP loans to earn Floor Income, we can have a fixed versus floating mismatch in funding if the student loan earns at the fixed borrower rate and the funding remains floating. In addition, we can have a mismatch in the index (including the frequency of reset) of floating rate debt versus floating rate assets. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, certain FFELP Loans were earning Floor Income and we locked in a portion of that Floor Income through the use of Floor Income contracts. The result of these hedging transactions was to convert a portion of the fixed rate nature of student loans to variable rate, and to fix the relative spread between the student loan asset rate and the variable rate liability. In the preceding tables, under the scenario where interest rates increase 100 and 300 basis points, the change in pre tax net income before the unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities is primarily due to the impact of (i) our unhedged loans being in a fixed rate mode due to Floor Income, while being funded with 93 Table of Contents variable debt in low interest rate environments; and (ii) a portion of our variable assets being funded with fixed rate liabilities and equity. Item (i) will generally cause income to decrease when interest rates increase from a low interest rate environment, whereas item (ii) will generally offset this decrease. The variance in the change in pre tax income before unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives when comparing the 2011 analysis versus the 2010 analysis was the result of the SLC acquisition at December 31, 2010. In the 2010 analysis, the assets from the acquisition that earn Floor Income were reflected in the analysis at December 31, 2010, however, the Floor Income Contracts hedging these assets were not entered into until the first half of 2011. Therefore the 2010 analysis reflects a large decrease in this line from the loss of the unhedged Floor Income as rates were increased. In the 2011 analysis, this Floor Income had been hedged and the increase in the line resulted from a portion of our variable assets being funded with fixed rate debt. The large increase in the unrealized gains on derivatives and hedging activities line in the 2011 analysis versus the 2010 analysis, primarily is due to the impact of the additional Floor Income Contracts discussed above. Under the scenario in the tables above labeled Asset and Funding Index Mismatches, the main driver of the decrease in pre tax income before unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities is the result of LIBOR based debt funding commercial paper indexed assets. See Asset and Liability Funding Gap of this Item 7A for a further discussion. Increasing the spread between indices will also impact the unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives and hedging activities as it relates to basis swaps that hedge the mismatch between the asset and funding indices. In addition to interest rate risk addressed in the preceding tables, we are also exposed to risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. Foreign currency exchange risk is primarily the result of foreign currency denominated debt issued by us. When we issue foreign denominated corporate unsecured and securitization debt, our policy is to use cross currency interest rate swaps to swap all foreign currency denominated debt payments (fixed and floating) to U.S. dollar LIBOR using a fixed exchange rate. In the tables above, there would be an immaterial impact on earnings if exchange rates were to decrease or increase, due to the terms of the hedging instrument and hedged items matching. The balance sheet interest bearing liabilities would be affected by a change in exchange rates; however, the change would be materially offset by the cross currency interest rate swaps in other assets or other liabilities. In the current economic environment, volatility in the spread between spot and forward foreign exchange rates has resulted in material mark to market impacts to current period earnings which have not been factored into the above analysis. The earnings impact is noncash, and at maturity of the instruments the cumulative mark to market impact will be zero. Asset and Liability Funding Gap The tables below present our assets and liabilities (funding) arranged by underlying indices as of December 31, 2011. In the following GAAP presentation, the funding gap only includes derivatives that qualify as effective hedges (those derivatives which are reflected in net interest margin, as opposed to those reflected in the gains (losses) on derivatives and hedging activities, net line on the consolidated statements of income). The difference between the asset and the funding is the funding gap for the specified index. This represents our exposure to interest rate risk in the form of basis risk and repricing risk, which is the risk that the different indices may reset at different frequencies or may not move in the same direction or at the same magnitude. Management analyzes interest rate risk and in doing so includes all derivatives that are economically hedging our debt whether they qualify as effective hedges or not (Core Earnings basis). Accordingly, we are also presenting the asset and liability funding gap on a Core Earnings basis in the table that follows the GAAP presentation. 94 Table of Contents GAAP Basis Index (Dollars in billions) Frequency ofVariableResets Assets Funding(2) FundingGap 3 month Commercial paper(1) daily $ 129.6 $ $ 129.6 3 month Treasury bill weekly 7.6 7.6 Prime annual .7 .7 Prime quarterly 4.9 4.9 Prime monthly 21.8 21.8 Prime daily 2.8 (2.8 ) PLUS Index annual .5 .5 3 month LIBOR daily 3 month LIBOR quarterly 120.3 (120.3 ) 1 month LIBOR monthly 9.6 16.9 (7.3 ) CMT/CPI Index monthly/quarterly 1.6 (1.6 ) Non Discrete reset(3) monthly 32.8 (32.8 ) Non Discrete reset(4) daily/weekly 9.8 3.5 6.3 Fixed Rate(5) 8.8 15.4 (6.6 ) Total $ 193.3 $ 193.3 $ (1) See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis FFELP Loans Segment FFELP Loans Net Interest Margin for discussion regarding Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012 and the effect it will have on the FFELP student lender payment index in 2012. (2) Funding includes all derivatives that management considers economic hedges of interest rate risk and reflects how we internally manage our interest rate exposure. (3) Funding consists of auction rate securities, the ABCP Facilities, the ED Conduit Program facility and the FHLB DM facility. (4) Assets include restricted and unrestricted cash equivalents and other overnight type instruments. Funding includes retail and other deposits and the obligation to return cash collateral held related to derivatives exposures. (5) Assets include receivables and other assets (including goodwill and acquired intangibles). Funding includes other liabilities and stockholders equity (excluding series B Preferred Stock). The Funding Gaps in the above table are primarily interest rate mismatches in short term indices between our assets and liabilities. We address this issue typically through the use of basis swaps that typically convert quarterly reset three month LIBOR to other indices that are more correlated to our asset indices. These basis swaps do not qualify as effective hedges and as a result the effect on the funding index is not included in our interest margin and is therefore excluded from the GAAP presentation. 95 Table of Contents Core Earnings Basis Index (Dollars in billions) Frequency ofVariableResets Assets Funding(2) FundingGap 3 month Commercial paper(1) daily $ 129.6 $ $ 129.6 3 month Treasury bill weekly 7.6 1.8 5.8 Prime annual .7 .7 Prime quarterly 4.9 4.9 Prime monthly 21.8 4.5 17.3 Prime daily 2.8 (2.8 ) PLUS Index annual .5 .5 3 month LIBOR daily 20.2 (20.2 ) 3 month LIBOR quarterly 79.0 (79.0 ) 1 month LIBOR monthly 9.6 26.1 (16.5 ) 1 month LIBOR daily 8.0 (8.0 ) Non Discrete reset(3) monthly 32.9 (32.9 ) Non Discrete reset(4) daily/weekly 9.8 3.5 6.3 Fixed Rate(5) 6.1 11.8 (5.7 ) Total $ 190.6 $ 190.6 $ (1) See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis FFELP Loans Segment FFELP Loans Net Interest Margin for discussion regarding Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012 and the effect it will have on the FFELP student lender payment index in 2012. (2) Funding includes all derivatives that management considers economic hedges of interest rate risk and reflects how we internally manage our interest rate exposure. (3) Funding consists of auction rate securities, the ABCP Facilities, the ED Conduit Program facility and the FHLB DM facility. (4) Assets include restricted and unrestricted cash equivalents and other overnight type instruments. Funding includes retail and other deposits and the obligation to return cash collateral held related to derivatives exposures. (5) Assets include receivables and other assets (including goodwill and acquired intangibles). Funding includes other liabilities and stockholders equity (excluding series B Preferred Stock). We use interest rate swaps and other derivatives to achieve our risk management objectives. Our asset liability management strategy is to match assets with debt (in combination with derivatives) that have the same underlying index and reset frequency or when economical, have interest rate characteristics that we believe are highly correlated. For example, a large portion of our daily reset 3 month commercial paper indexed assets are funded with liabilities indexed to LIBOR. The use of funding with index types and reset frequencies that are different from our assets exposes us to interest rate risk in the form of basis and repricing risk. This could result in our cost of funds not moving in the same direction or with the same magnitude as the yield on our assets. While we believe this risk is low, as all of these indices are short term with rate movements that are highly correlated over a long period of time, market disruptions can lead to a temporary divergence between indices resulting in a negative impact to our earnings. 96 Table of Contents Weighted Average Life The following table reflects the weighted average life for our earning assets and liabilities at December 31, 2011. (Averages in Years) Weighted AverageLife Earning assets Student loans 7.6 Other loans 6.3 Cash and investments 0.1 Total earning assets 7.2 Borrowings Short term borrowings 0.3 Long term borrowings 7.0 Total borrowings 5.9 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. This discussion and analysis also contains forward looking statements and should also be read in conjunction with the disclosures and information contained in Forward Looking and Cautionary Statements and Item 1A Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Through this discussion and analysis, we intend to provide the reader with some narrative context for how our management views our consolidated financial statements, additional context within which to assess our operating results, and information on the quality and variability of our earnings, liquidity and cash flows. Overview Our primary business is to originate, service and collect loans we make to students and or their parents to finance the cost of their education. The core of our marketing strategy is to generate student loan originations by promoting our products on campus through the financial aid office and through direct marketing to students and their families. We also provide servicing, loan default aversion and defaulted loan collection services for loans owned by other institutions, including ED. We also provide processing capabilities to educational institutions, 529 college savings plan program management services and a consumer savings network. In addition we are the largest holder, servicer and collector of loans made under FFELP, a program that was discontinued in 2010. We monitor and assess our ongoing operations and results based on the following four reportable segments: (1) Consumer Lending, (2) Business Services, (3) FFELP Loans and (4) Other. Consumer Lending Segment In this segment, we originate, acquire, finance and service Private Education Loans. The Private Education Loans we make are largely to bridge the gap between the cost of higher education and the amount funded through financial aid, federal loans or borrowers resources. In this segment, we earn net interest income on the Private Education Loan portfolio (after provision for loan losses) as well as servicing fees, primarily late fees. As of December 31, 2011, we had $36.3 billion of Private Education Loans outstanding. In 2011, we originated $2.7 billion of Private Education Loans, up 19 percent from $2.3 billion in the prior year. Business Services Segment In our Business Services segment we provide loan servicing to our FFELP Loans segment, ED and other third parties. We provide servicing, default aversion and contingency collections work on behalf of ED, Guarantors of FFELP Loans, and other institutions. Our Campus Solutions business provides comprehensive transaction processing solutions and associated technology to college financial aid offices and students to streamline the financial aid process. We provide 529 college savings plan account asset servicing and other transaction processing activities. We offer, tuition, renters and student health insurance to college students and higher education institutions. FFELP Loans Segment Our FFELP Loans segment consists of our $138 billion FFELP Loan portfolio and underlying debt and capital funding these loans. Because we no longer originate FFELP Loans the portfolio is in runoff and is expected to amortize over approximately the next 20 years with a weighted average remaining life of 7.6 years. 25 Table of Contents We actively seek to acquire FFELP Loan portfolios to leverage our servicing scale and expertise to generate incremental earnings and cash flow. Of our total FFELP Loan portfolio, 94 percent was funded with non recourse, long term debt; 76 percent of our FFELP Loan portfolio being funded to term by securitization trusts, 15 percent funded through the ED Conduit Program which terminates on January 19, 2014, and 3 percent funded in our multi year ABCP facility. This segment is expected to generate a stable net interest margin and significant amounts of cash as the FFELP portfolio amortizes. Other Our Other segment primarily consists of the financial results related to activities of our holding company, including the repurchase of debt, the corporate liquidity portfolio and all overhead. We also include results from smaller wind down and discontinued operations within this segment. Key Financial Measures Our operating results are primarily driven by net interest income from our student loan portfolios (which includes financing costs), provision for loan losses, the revenues and expenses generated by our service businesses, and gains and losses on loan sales and debt repurchases. We manage and assess the performance of each business segment separately as each is focused on different customers and each derives its revenue from different activities and services. A brief summary of our key financial measures are listed below. Net Interest Income The most significant portion of our earnings is generated by the spread earned between the interest income we receive on assets in our student loan portfolios and the interest expense of funding these loans. We report these earnings as net interest income. Net interest income in our Consumer Lending and FFELP Loans segments are driven by significantly different factors. Consumer Lending Segment Net interest income in this segment is determined by the Private Education Loan asset yields, which are determined by interest rates established by us based upon the credit of the borrower and any co borrower and the level of price competition in the Private Education Loan market less our cost of funds. Our Private Education Loans earn variable rate interest and are funded primarily with variable rate liabilities. The Consumer Lending segments Core Earnings net interest margin was 4.1 percent in 2011 compared with 3.9 percent in 2010. Our cost of funds can be influenced by a number of factors including the quality of the loans in our portfolio, our corporate credit rating, general economic conditions, investor demand for Private Education Loan ABS and corporate unsecured debt and competition in the deposit market. At December 31, 2011, 56 percent of our Private Education Loan portfolio was funded with non recourse, long term debt; 51 percent of our Private Education Loans being funded to term by securitization trusts. FFELP Loans Segment Net interest income will be the primary source of cash flow generated by this segment over the next 20 years as this portfolio runs off. Historically, interest earned on our FFELP Loans was primarily indexed to commercial paper rates and our cost of funds was indexed to three month LIBOR, creating the possibility of significant basis and repricing risk related to these assets. Recent changes to the applicable law will allow us, beginning in the second quarter of 2012, to index interest earned to one month LIBOR rather than commercial paper rates, significantly reducing basis and repricing risk on $130 billion of our FFELP Loans. The FFELP Loans segments Core Earnings net interest margin was 0.98 percent in 2011 compared with 0.93 percent in 2010. The major source of variability in net interest income is expected to be Floor Income. Pursuant to the terms of the FFELP, certain FFELP Loans, in certain situations, continue to earn interest at the stated fixed rate of 26 Table of Contents interest even if underlying debt costs decrease. We refer to this additional spread income as Floor Income. This Floor Income can be volatile as rates on underlying debt move up and down. We generally hedge this risk by selling Floor Income Contracts which lock in the value of the Floor Income over the term of the contract. Additional cash flow should be generated within this segment as many of our secured financing vehicles are over collateralized, creating the potential for additional cash flow to be distributed to us over time as the loans amortize. Provisions for Loan Losses Management estimates and maintains an allowance for loan losses generally at a level sufficient to cover charge offs expected over the next two years, plus additional allowance to cover life of loan expected losses for loans classified as a troubled debt restructuring. The provision is an income statement item that reduces segment revenues. Generally the allowance rises when charge offs are expected to increase and falls when charge offs are expected to decline. Our loss exposure and resulting provision for losses is smaller for FFELP Loans than for Private Education Loans because we bear a maximum of 3 percent loss exposure on our FFELP Loans whereas we bear the full credit exposure on our Private Education Loans. Our provision for losses in our FFELP Loans segment was $86 million in 2011 compared with $98 million in 2010. Losses in our Consumer Lending segment are primarily driven by risk characteristics such as school type, loan status (in school, grace, forbearance, repayment and delinquency), loan seasoning (number of months in active repayment for which a scheduled payment was due), underwriting criteria (e.g., credit scores), existence or absence of a cosigner and the current economic environment. Our provision for loan losses in our Consumer Lending segment was $1.2 billion in 2011 compared with $1.3 billion in 2010. Charge Offs and Delinquencies When we conclude a loan is uncollectable, the unrecoverable portion of the loan is charged against the allowance for loan losses in the applicable lending segment. Information regarding charge offs provides relevant information over time with respect to the actual performance of our loan portfolios as compared against the provisions for loan losses on those portfolios. Management focuses on the overall level of delinquencies as well as the progression of loans from early to late stage delinquency. The FFELP segment charge off rate was 0.08 percent of loans in repayment in 2011 compared with 0.11 percent in 2010. The Consumer Lending segments charge off rate was 3.7 percent of loans in repayment in 2011 compared with 5.0 percent of loans in repayment in 2010. Delinquencies are a very important indicator of the potential future credit performance. Private Education Loan delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment decreased from 10.6 percent at December 31, 2010 to 10.1 percent at December 31, 2011. Servicing and Contingency Revenues We earn servicing revenues from servicing student loans, Campus Solutions, and from account asset servicing related to 529 college savings plans. We earn contingency revenue related to default aversion and contingency collections work we perform primarily on federal loans. The fees we recognize are primarily driven by our success in collecting or rehabilitating defaulted loans, the number of transactions processed and the underlying volume of loans we are servicing on behalf of others. Other Income / (Loss) In managing our loan portfolios and funding sources we periodically engage in sales of loans and the repurchase of our outstanding debt. In each case, depending on market conditions, we may incur gains or losses from these transactions that affect our results from operations. 27 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The operating expenses reported for our Consumer Lending and Business Services segments are those that are directly attributable to the generation of revenues by those segments. The operating expenses for the FFELP Loans segment primarily represent an intercompany servicing charge from the Business Services segment and do not reflect our actual underlying costs incurred to service the loans. We have included corporate overhead expenses and certain information technology costs (together referred to as Overhead) in our Other segment rather than allocate those expenses by segment. These overhead expenses include costs related to executive management, the board of directors, accounting, finance, legal, human resources, stock based compensation expense and certain information technology costs related to infrastructure and operations. Core Earnings We report financial results on a GAAP basis and also present certain Core Earnings performance measures. Our management, equity investors, credit rating agencies and debt capital providers use these Core Earnings measures to monitor our business performance. Core Earnings is the basis in which we prepare our segment disclosures as required by GAAP under ASC 280 Segment Reporting (see Note 16 Segment Reporting). For a full explanation of the contents and limitations of Core Earnings, see Core Earnings Definition and Limitations of this Item 7. 2011 Summary of Results We continue to operate in a challenging macroeconomic environment marked by high unemployment and uncertainty which contributes added uncertainty to Private Education Loan repayment and default patterns. On July 1, 2010, the HCERA eliminated FFELP Loan originations, a major source of our net income. All federal loans to students are now made through the DSLP and as discussed above, we no longer originate FFELP Loans. In addition, on July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd Frank Act that represents a comprehensive change to banking laws, imposing significant new regulation on almost every aspect of the U.S. financial services industry. A discussion of HCERA and the Dodd Frank Act can be found in Item 1 Business and in Item 1A Risk Factors in our 2011 Form 10 K. Despite this environment, we were able to achieve significant accomplishments during 2011 as discussed below. GAAP 2011 net income was $633 million ($1.18 diluted earnings per share), versus net income of $530 million ($.94 diluted earnings per share) in the prior year. The changes in GAAP net income are driven by the same Core Earnings items discussed below as well as changes in mark to market unrealized gains and losses on derivative contracts and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets that are recognized in GAAP but not in core earnings results. In 2011, we had a $623 million increase in unrealized mark to market losses on derivative contracts and $660 million less goodwill and intangible asset impairment compared with 2010. Core Earnings for the year were $977 million ($1.83 diluted earnings per share) compared to $1.03 billion ($1.92 diluted earnings per share) in 2010. Core Earnings were down due to a decrease in gains on loan sales and debt repurchases from the prior year ($574 million or $.69 per diluted share in 2010). Excluding these gains on loan sales and debt repurchases in 2010, Core Earnings were up $521 million year over year due to improvements in net interest income, loan loss provision, expenses and discontinued operations. During 2011, we raised $2 billion of unsecured debt and issued $2.4 billion of FFELP ABS and $2.1 billion of Private Education Loan ABS. We also repurchased $894 million of debt and realized Core Earnings gains of $64 million in 2011, compared with $4.9 billion and $317 million in 2010. 28 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter 2011, we also closed a $3.4 billion Private Education Loan asset backed commercial paper facility that matures in January 2014. This facility was used to finance the call of Private Education Loan asset backed securities at significant discounts to the par value. We also achieved a key management objective of again being able to return capital to our shareholders. During the second and third quarters of 2011, we repurchased 19.1 million common shares on the open market as part of our previously announced $300 million share repurchase program authorization. We have fully utilized this authorization. We declared and paid a $.10 per share dividend during the second, third and fourth quarters of 2011. 2011 Management Objectives In 2011 we set out five major goals to create shareholder value. They were: (1) reduce our operating expenses; (2) prudently grow Consumer Lending segment assets and revenue; (3) increase Business Services segment revenue; (4) maximize cash flows from FFELP Loans; and (5) reinstate dividends and or share repurchases. We believe we achieved each of these objectives in 2011. The following describes our performance relative to each of our 2011 goals. Reduce Operating Expenses The elimination of FFELP by HCERA greatly reduced our revenue generating capabilities. In 2010 we originated $14 billion of loans, 84 percent of them FFELP Loans; in 2011 we originated $2.7 billion of new loans, all of them Private Education Loans. As a result of the decline in our FFELP related revenue, we determined we must effectively match our cost structure to our ongoing business. As such, we set a goal of having a quarterly operating expense of $250 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 (by comparison, our 2010 fourth quarter operating expenses were $308 million). We achieved this goal as our fourth quarter 2011 operating expenses were $243 million. Prudently Grow Consumer Lending Segment Assets and Revenue Successfully growing Private Education Loan lending is the key component of our long term plan to grow shareholder value. We achieved this goal by originating increasing numbers of high quality Private Education Loans, with higher net interest margins and lower charge offs and provision for loan losses. Originations were 19 percent higher in 2011 compared with 2010 with average FICO and cosigner rates higher compared with the prior year. Core Earnings net interest margin increased from 3.9 percent to 4.1 percent. Charge offs decreased to 3.7 percent of loans in repayment from 5.0 percent in 2010. Provision for loan loss decreased to $1.18 billion from $1.3 billion in 2010. Increase Business Services Segment Revenue Our Business Services segment comprises several businesses with customers related to FFELP that will experience revenue declines and several businesses with customers that provide growth opportunities. Our growth businesses are ED servicing, ED collections, other school based asset type servicing and collections, Campus Solutions, Sallie Mae Insurance Services, transaction processing and 529 college savings plan account asset servicing. We achieved this goal as our Business Services segment revenue increased from $1.3 billion in 2010 to $1.4 billion in 2011. Our allocation of new customer loans awarded for servicing under our ED Servicing Contract increased from 22 percent to 26 percent for the current contract year ending August 15, 2012. The increase was driven primarily by our top ranking for default prevention performance results. We are servicing approximately 3.6 million accounts under the ED Servicing Contract as of December 31, 2011. Campus Solutions added 44 new refund disbursement clients in 2011. We also announced a Sallie Mae Bank No Fee Student Checking Account with Debit as an enhanced refund disbursement choice for schools and students. This new option complements existing Campus Solutions refund disbursement choices that include electronic deposit to the bank account of the students choice, debit card or a check. 29 Table of Contents Assets under management in 529 college savings plans total $37.5 billion and grew 9 percent year over year. We recently were selected to continue as the program manager for New Yorks 529 College Savings Program under a seven year contract, which is currently being negotiated. New York has the largest direct 529 plan in the country. We launched Sallie Mae Insurance Services in 2011, offering college students and higher education institutions tuition, renters and student health insurance. We acquired SC Services & Associates, Inc., a provider of collections services to local governments and courts to enhance and complement our other contingency collection businesses. Maximize Cash Flows from FFELP Loans We have a $138 billion portfolio of FFELP Loans that is expected to generate significant amounts of cash flow and earnings in the coming years. We planned to improve our net interest margin, further minimize income volatility and opportunistically purchase additional FFELP Loan portfolios such as the portfolio we purchased at the end of 2010. We achieved this goal in 2011 by acquiring $1.6 billion of FFELP loans and improving our net interest margin from 93 basis points in 2010 to 98 basis points in 2011. Reinstate Dividends and or Share Repurchases We achieved our objective of either paying dividends or repurchasing shares, or both by the second half of 2011. Beginning in June, we began to pay quarterly dividends of $.10 per share on our common stock, the first since 2007. In April 2011, we authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of outstanding common stock in open market transactions and terminated all previous authorizations. During the second and third quarters of 2011, we paid $300 million to repurchase 19.1 million common shares on the open market. 2012 Outlook We expect the operating strength we demonstrated in 2011 to continue in 2012. We plan to increase Core Earnings primarily through improving Private Education Loan portfolio performance and lower operating expenses. Loan originations are also expected to increase in 2012. We expect to remain an active participant in the capital markets in 2012. Our term ABS activity will feature multiple transactions backed by both FFELP collateral, primarily reducing the ED Conduit Facility, as well as Private Education Loan collateral. We will remain an opportunistic issuer in the unsecured debt markets primarily to facilitate asset liability management activities. Recent transactions in all of the above mentioned categories have been met with strong demand and provide term financing which is a key component of our business model. Recognizing the strong financial position we are in, the Board of Directors approved a 25 percent increase in our quarterly dividend and a $500 million share repurchase program in January 2012. Despite this significant return of capital to our shareholders from earnings, we expect to end 2012 with a stronger balance sheet and better capital ratios. Credit losses within our Private Education Loan portfolio are primarily driven by the quality of loans entering repayment, improving underlying portfolio quality, the quality of new originations and the general economic environment. The fourth quarter 2011 repayment cohort, at $1.5 billion, was the smallest in the last five years, and had better FICO scores and higher cosigner rates than in previous years which should result in lower future losses. The underlying portfolio has continued to improve with 62 percent of the loans cosigned, less than 10 percent non traditional and over 72 percent of our customers currently in repayment having made more than 12 payments. In addition, the loans originated in 2011 had an average FICO score of 748 and were 91 percent cosigned; these statistics are our highest ever for a loan origination cohort. As a result, we believe that charge offs and provision for loan losses will continue their downward trend. 30 Table of Contents 2012 Management Objectives In 2012 we have set out five major goals to create shareholder value. They are: (1) prudently grow Consumer Lending segment assets and revenue; (2) sustain Business Services segment revenue; (3) maximize cash flows from FFELP Loans; (4) reduce our operating expenses; and (5) improve our financial strength. Here is how we plan to achieve these objectives: Prudently Grow Consumer Lending Segment Assets and Revenues We will continue to pursue managed growth in our Private Education Loan portfolio in 2012, currently targeting $3.2 billion in new originations for the year compared to $2.7 billion in 2011. We will also be increasing our efforts to improve our return on these assets projecting even lower charge off rates and provision for loan losses, continuing to build on the improvements we have been demonstrating in these measures since 2009. Sustain Business Services Segment Revenue Our Business Services segment generates the vast majority of its revenue from servicing and collecting on our FFELP Loan portfolio and FFELP Loans for others. As a result of the elimination of FFELP in 2010, servicing and collection revenues derived from FFELP related sources are in decline. In 2012 we will work to offset these declines through two primary means pursuing additional growth and expansion of our non FFELP related servicing and collection businesses and seeking to increase the FFELP related loan servicing and collection work we do for third parties. In 2012 we are targeting significant growth in the number of customers we service for ED under our ED servicing and collection contracts, as well as in the total assets under management in our 529 college savings plans. We will explore both complementary and diversified strategies to expand demand for our services in and beyond the student loan market. We will also more aggressively seek to leverage our existing FFELP servicing platforms to be able to provide lower cost FFELP servicing to others while increasing segment revenues from these sources. Maximize Cash Flows from FFELP Loans In 2012 we will continue to focus on opportunistically purchasing additional FFELP Loan portfolios from other lenders. As cash flows from our existing FFELP Loans decline over coming years, it also becomes increasingly important that we actively manage and continue to reduce operating and overhead costs attributable to the maintenance and management of this segment. Continuing to reduce these operating and overhead costs will also increase net income for our Business Services segment. Reduce Operating Expenses We achieved our 2011 management objective of having a quarterly operating expense of $250 million or less in the fourth quarter of 2011. In 2012 we will strive to sustain or improve on this quarterly run rate for the full fiscal year. Improve Our Financial Strength In January 2012 we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.125 per share and a new $500 million common share repurchase program. Of equal note, it is managements objective for 2012 to provide these increased shareholder distributions while at the same time ending 2012 with a balance sheet and capital positions as strong or stronger than those with which we ended in 2011. 31 Table of Contents Results of Operations We present the results of operations first on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. As discussed earlier, we have four business segments, Consumer Lending, Business Services, FFELP Loans and Other. Since these segments operate in distinct business environments, the discussion following the Consolidated Earnings Summary is presented on a segment basis and is shown on a Core Earnings basis. See Item 1 Business Business Segments for further discussion on the components of each segment. 32 Table of Contents GAAP Statements of Income Increase (Decrease) Years Ended December 31, 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2011 2010 2009 $ % $ % Interest income FFELP Loans $ 3,461 $ 3,345 $ 3,094 $ 116 3 % $ 251 8 % Private Education Loans 2,429 2,353 1,582 76 3 771 49 Other loans 21 30 56 (9 ) (30 ) (26 ) (46 ) Cash and investments 19 26 26 (7 ) (27 ) Total interest income 5,930 5,754 4,758 176 3 996 21 Total interest expense 2,401 2,275 3,035 126 6 (760 ) (25 ) Net interest income 3,529 3,479 1,723 50 1 1,756 102 Less: provisions for loan losses 1,295 1,419 1,119 (124 ) (9 ) 300 27 Net interest income after provisions for loan losses 2,234 2,060 604 174 8 1,456 241 Other income (loss): Securitization servicing and Residual Interest revenue 295 (295 ) (100 ) Gains (losses) on loans and investments, net (35 ) 325 284 (360 ) (111 ) 41 14 Losses on derivative and hedging activities, net (959 ) (361 ) (604 ) (598 ) 166 243 (40 ) Servicing revenue 381 405 440 (24 ) (6 ) (35 ) (8 ) Contingency revenue 333 330 294 3 1 36 12 Gains on debt repurchases 38 317 536 (279 ) (88 ) (219 ) (41 ) Other income 68 6 88 62 1,033 (82 ) (93 ) Total other income (loss) (174 ) 1,022 1,333 (1,196 ) (117 ) (311 ) (23 ) Expenses: Operating expenses 1,100 1,208 1,043 (108 ) (9 ) 165 16 Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment and amortization expense 24 699 76 (675 ) (97 ) 623 820 Restructuring expenses 9 85 10 (76 ) (89 ) 75 750 Total expenses 1,133 1,992 1,129 (859 ) (43 ) 863 76 Income from continuing operations, before income tax expense 927 1,090 808 (163 ) (15 ) 282 35 Income tax expense 328 493 264 (165 ) (33 ) 229 87 Net income from continuing operations 599 597 544 2 53 10 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 33 (67 ) (220 ) 100 149 153 (70 ) Net income 632 530 324 102 19 206 64 Less: net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (1 ) (1 ) (100 ) Net income attributable to SLM Corporation 633 530 324 103 19 206 64 Preferred stock dividends 18 72 146 (54 ) (75 ) (74 ) (51 ) Net income attributable to SLM Corporation common stock $ 615 $ 458 $ 178 $ 157 34 % $ 280 157 % Basic earnings (loss) per common share attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations $ 1.13 $ 1.08 $ .85 $ .05 5 % $ .23 27 % Discontinued operations .06 (.14 ) (.47 ) .20 143 .33 (70 ) Total $ 1.19 $ .94 $ .38 $ .25 27 % $ .56 147 % Diluted earnings (loss) per common share attributable to SLM Corporation: Continuing operations $ 1.12 $ 1.08 $ .85 $ .04 4 % $ .23 27 % Discontinued operations .06 (.14 ) (.47 ) .20 143 .33 (70 ) Total $ 1.18 $ .94 $ .38 $ .24 26 % $ .56 147 % Dividends per common share $ .30 $ $ $ .30 100 % $ % 33 Table of Contents Consolidated Earnings Summary GAAP basis Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2010 For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, net income was $633 million, or $1.18 diluted earnings per common share, and $530 million, or $.94 diluted earnings per common share, respectively. The increase in net income for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared with the prior year period was primarily due to $660 million of goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, which were partially non tax deductible, recorded in the year ago period, a $124 million decrease in the provisions for loan losses, a $100 million increase in income from discontinued operations and $108 million of lower operating expenses. These improvements were partially offset by a $598 million increase in net losses on derivative and hedging activities, a $279 million decrease in gains on debt repurchases and a $360 million decrease in net gains on loans and investments. The primary contributors to each component of net income for the current year compared with the year ago period are as follows: Net interest income increased by $50 million primarily from incremental net interest income earned on $25 billion of securitized FFELP loans acquired on December 31, 2010. Provisions for loan losses decreased by $124 million, as the $124 million of additional provision related to the implementation of new accounting guidance for troubled debt restructurings (TDRs) in the third quarter of 2011 (see Consumer Lending Segment Private Education Loans Provision for Loan Losses and Charge offs for further discussion), was more than offset by overall improvements in credit quality and delinquency and charge off trends. Gains on loans and investments, net, declined $360 million as a result of a $321 million gain recognized in the fourth quarter of 2010 from the sale of FFELP Loans to ED as part of the EDs Loan Purchase Commitment Program (the Purchase Program) which ended in 2010. Also, in 2011 we recorded $26 million of impairment on certain aircraft leases which were primarily related to leveraged lease investments with American Airlines, which filed for bankruptcy in the fourth quarter of 2011. 2011 also has a $9 million mark to market loss related to classifying our entire $12 million portfolio of non U.S. dollar denominated student loans as held for sale. Net losses on derivatives and hedging activities increased by $598 million primarily due to interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations, affecting the valuations of our Floor Income Contracts, basis swaps and foreign currency hedges during the period. Valuations of derivative instruments vary based upon many factors including changes in interest rates, credit risk, foreign currency fluctuations and other market factors. As a result, net gains and losses on derivatives and hedging activities may vary significantly in future periods. Servicing revenue decreased by $24 million primarily due to the end of FFELP in 2010, thereby eliminating Guarantor issuance fees we earn on new FFELP Loans. Outstanding FFELP Loans on which we earn additional fees also declined. Gains on debt repurchases decreased $279 million as we repurchased less debt in the current period. Debt repurchase activity will fluctuate based on market fundamentals and our liability management strategy. Other income increased by $62 million primarily as a result of a $25 million gain from the termination and replacement of a credit card affiliation contract and $27 million from an increase in foreign currency translation gains. The foreign currency translation gains relate to a portion of our foreign currency denominated debt that does not receive hedge accounting treatment. These gains were partially offset by losses on derivative and hedging activities, net line item in the consolidated statements of income related to the derivatives used to economically hedge these debt investments. Operating expenses decreased $108 million primarily as a result of our on going cost savings initiative. 34 Table of Contents Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment and amortization expense declined $675 million compared with the prior year primarily due to the $660 million impairment recognized in the third quarter of 2010 in response to the passage of the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (HCERA), which resulted in the elimination of the FFELP and significantly reduced the future earnings for several of our reporting units. Restructuring expenses decreased $76 million primarily as a result of the substantial completion of our plan for restructuring initiated in response to legislation ending FFELP in 2010. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were 35 percent and 45 percent, respectively. The improvement in the effective tax rate was primarily driven by the impact of non tax deductible goodwill impairments recorded in 2010. Net income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $33 million compared with a net loss from discontinued operations of $67 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The change was primarily driven by a $23 million after tax gain realized from the sale of our Purchased Paper Non Mortgage portfolio in the third quarter of 2011 compared to $52 million of after tax impairments recognized in 2010. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2009 For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, net income was $530 million, or $.94 diluted earnings per common share, and $324 million, or $.38 diluted earnings per common share, respectively. The increase in net income for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared with the prior year was primarily due to a $1.5 billion increase in net interest income after provisions for loan losses and a $243 million decrease in net losses on derivative and hedging activities. These improvements were partially offset by a $660 million goodwill and intangible asset impairment charge in 2010, a $165 million increase in operating expenses, a $219 million decrease in gains on debt repurchases and a decrease in securitization servicing and Residual Interest revenue of $295 million. The primary contributors to each of the identified drivers of changes in income from continuing operations before income tax expense for the year over year period are as follows: Net interest income after provisions for loan losses increased by $1.5 billion in the year ended December 31, 2010 from the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in net interest income and provisions for loan losses was partially due to the adoption as of January 1, 2010 of the new consolidation accounting guidance which resulted in the consolidation of $35.0 billion of assets and $34.4 billion of liabilities in certain securitizations trusts. (See Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies for a further discussion of the effect of adopting the new consolidation accounting guidance). The consolidation of these securitization trusts as of January 1, 2010 resulted in $998 million of additional net interest income and $355 million of additional provisions for loan losses for the year ended December 31, 2010. Excluding the effect of the trusts being consolidated as of January 1, 2010, net interest income increased $758 million from the year ended 2009 and provisions for loan losses decreased $55 million from the year ended 2009. The increase in net interest income, excluding the effect of the new consolidation accounting guidance, was primarily the result of an increase in the FFELP Loans net interest margin primarily due to an improvement in our funding costs, a 24 basis point tightening of the CP/LIBOR spread and the effect of not receiving hedge accounting treatment for derivatives used to economically hedge risk affecting net interest income. The decrease in the provisions for loan losses relates to the Private Education Loan loss provision, which decreased as a result of the improving performance of the portfolio. Securitization servicing and Residual Interest revenue was no longer recorded in fiscal year 2010 due to the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance; however, we recognized $295 million in the prior year. 35 Table of Contents Gains on loans and investments, net, increased $41 million from the prior year primarily related to the gains on sales of additional FFELP Loans to ED as part of EDs Loan Purchase Commitment Program (the Purchase Program). These gains will not occur in the future as the Purchase Program ended in 2010. Losses on derivatives and hedging activities, net, declined by $243 million in 2010 compared with 2009, primarily due to interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations, which primarily affected the valuations of our Floor Income Contracts, basis swaps and foreign currency hedges during the period. Valuations of derivative instruments vary based upon many factors including changes in interest rates, credit risk, foreign currency fluctuations and other market factors. As a result, net gains and losses on derivatives and hedging activities may vary significantly in future periods. Servicing revenue decreased by $35 million primarily due to HCERA becoming effective as of July 1, 2010, thereby eliminating our ability to earn additional Guarantor issuance fees on new FFELP Loans, as well as to a decline in outstanding FFELP Loans for which we were earning additional fees. Contingency revenue increased $36 million primarily from increased collections on defaulted FFELP Loans. Gains on debt repurchases decreased $219 million year over year while the principal amount of debt repurchased increased to $4.9 billion, as compared with the $3.4 billion repurchased in fiscal year 2009. Debt repurchase activity will fluctuate based on market fundamentals and our liability management strategy. Other income declined by $82 million primarily due to a $71 million decrease in foreign currency translation gains. The foreign currency translation gains relate to a portion of our foreign currency denominated debt that does not receive hedge accounting treatment. These gains were partially offset by the losses on derivative and hedging activities, net line item on the income statement related to the derivatives used to economically hedge these debt instruments. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring related asset impairments of $19 million in 2010, increased $146 million year over year primarily due to an increase in legal contingency expense, costs related to the ED Servicing Contract, higher collection and servicing costs from a higher number of loans in repayment and in delinquent status, and higher marketing and technology enhancement costs related to Private Education Loans. Goodwill and intangible asset impairment and amortization increased $623 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, primarily due to the $660 million of impairment recognized as a result of the passage of HCERA and its negative effects on the anticipated cash flows for certain of our reporting units and the reduced market values of these units. The amortization of acquired intangibles for continuing operations and for discontinued operations each remained relatively unchanged for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For additional discussion regarding the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets see Note 5 Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets. Restructuring expenses increased $69 million in the year ended December 31, 2010, which is a result of a $75 million increase in restructuring expenses in continuing operations partially offset by a $6 million decrease in restructuring expenses attributable to discontinued operations. The following details our ongoing restructuring efforts: On March 30, 2010, President Obama signed into law H.R. 4872, HCERA, which included the SAFRA Act. Effective July 1, 2010, this legislation eliminated FFELP and requires all new federal loans to be made through the DSLP. The new law did not alter or affect the terms and conditions of existing FFELP Loans. We have and will continue to restructure our operations in response to this change in law which has and will continue to result in a significant reduction of operating costs due to the elimination of positions and facilities associated with the origination of FFELP Loans. Restructuring expenses associated with continuing operations under this restructuring plan were $83 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. We expect to incur an estimated $10 million of additional restructuring expenses. 36 Table of Contents In response to the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007 (CCRAA) and challenges in the capital markets, we also initiated a restructuring plan in the fourth quarter of 2007. Under this ongoing plan, restructuring expenses associated with continuing operations of $2 million and $10 million were recognized in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This restructuring plan was essentially completed in the fourth quarter of 2009. Income tax expense from continuing operations increased $229 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared with the prior year. The effective tax rates for fiscal years 2010 and 2009 were 45 percent and 33 percent, respectively. The change in the effective tax rate was primarily driven by the impact of non deductible goodwill impairments recorded in 2010 and state tax rate changes recorded in both periods. Net loss from discontinued operations in the year ended December 31, 2010 was $67 million compared with a net loss from discontinued operations of $220 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we sold our Purchased Paper Mortgage/Properties business for $280 million which resulted in an after tax loss of $95 million. As a result of this sale, the results of operations of this business were presented in discontinued operations in the fourth quarter of 2009. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we began actively marketing our Purchased Paper Non Mortgage business for sale and began presenting its results in discontinued operations. We recorded an after tax loss of $52 million from discontinued operations in the fourth quarter of 2010, primarily due to adjusting the value of this business to its estimated fair value. We sold our Purchased Paper Non Mortgage business in the third quarter of 2011. Our Purchased Paper businesses are presented in discontinued operations for the current and prior periods. The additional losses for both years that are more than the losses discussed above relate to ongoing impairment recorded as a result of the weakened economys effect on our ability to collect the receivables. Core Earnings Definition and Limitations We prepare financial statements in accordance with GAAP. However, we also evaluate our business segments on a basis that differs from GAAP. We refer to this different basis of presentation as Core Earnings. We provide this Core Earnings basis of presentation on a consolidated basis for each business segment because this is what we internally review when making management decisions regarding our performance and how we allocate resources. We also refer to this information in our presentations with credit rating agencies, lenders and investors. Because our Core Earnings basis of presentation corresponds to our segment financial presentations, we are required by GAAP to provide Core Earnings disclosure in the notes to our consolidated financial statements for our business segments. For additional information, see Note 16 Segment Reporting. Core Earnings are not a substitute for reported results under GAAP. We use Core Earnings to manage each business segment because Core Earnings reflect adjustments to GAAP financial results for three items, discussed below, that create significant volatility mostly due to timing factors generally beyond the control of management. Accordingly, we believe that Core Earnings provide management with a useful basis from which to better evaluate results from ongoing operations against the business plan or against results from prior periods. Consequently, we disclose this information as we believe it provides investors with additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely assessed by management. The three items adjusted for in our Core Earnings presentations are (1) our use of derivatives instruments to hedge our economic risks that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment or do qualify for hedge accounting treatment but result in ineffectiveness (2) the accounting for goodwill and acquired intangible assets and (3) the off balance sheet treatment of certain securitization transactions. 37 Table of Contents While GAAP provides a uniform, comprehensive basis of accounting, for the reasons described above, our Core Earnings basis of presentation does not. Core Earnings are subject to certain general and specific limitations that investors should carefully consider. For example, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting. Our Core Earnings are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Accordingly, our Core Earnings presentation does not represent a comprehensive basis of accounting. Investors, therefore, may not be able to compare our performance with that of other financial services companies based upon Core Earnings. Core Earnings results are only meant to supplement GAAP results by providing additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely used by management, our board of directors, rating agencies, lenders and investors to assess performance. Specific adjustments that management makes to GAAP results to derive our Core Earnings basis of presentation are described in detail in the section entitled Core Earnings Definition and Limitations Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP of this Item 7. The following tables show Core Earnings for each business segment and our business as a whole along with the adjustments made to the income/expense items to reconcile the amounts to our reported GAAP results as required by GAAP and reported in Note 16 Segment Reporting. 38 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2011 (Dollars in millions) ConsumerLending BusinessServices FFELPLoans Other Eliminations(1) Total CoreEarnings Adjustments(2) TotalGAAP Interest income: Student loans $ 2,429 $ $ 2,914 $ $ $ 5,343 $ 547 $ 5,890 Other loans 21 21 21 Cash and investments 9 11 5 5 (11 ) 19 19 Total interest income 2,438 11 2,919 26 (11 ) 5,383 547 5,930 Total interest expense 804 1,472 54 (11 ) 2,319 82 2,401 Net interest income 1,634 11 1,447 (28 ) 3,064 465 3,529 Less: provisions for loan losses 1,179 86 30 1,295 1,295 Net interest income afterprovisions for loan losses 455 11 1,361 (58 ) 1,769 465 2,234 Servicing revenue 64 970 85 1 (739 ) 381 381 Contingency revenue 333 333 333 Gains on debt repurchases 64 64 (26 ) 38 Other income (loss) (9 ) 70 1 (9 ) 53 (979 ) (926 ) Total other income (loss) 55 1,373 86 56 (739 ) 831 (1,005 ) (174 ) Expenses: Direct operating expenses 304 482 760 12 (739 ) 819 819 Overhead expenses 281 281 281 Operating expenses 304 482 760 293 (739 ) 1,100 1,100 Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment and amortization 24 24 Restructuring expenses 3 3 1 2 9 9 Total expenses 307 485 761 295 (739 ) 1,109 24 1,133 Income (loss) from continuing operations, before income tax expense (benefit) 203 899 686 (297 ) 1,491 (564 ) 927 Income tax expense (benefit)(3) 75 330 252 (109 ) 548 (220 ) 328 Net income (loss) from continuing operations 128 569 434 (188 ) 943 (344 ) 599 Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes 33 33 33 Net income (loss) 128 569 434 (155 ) 976 (344 ) 632 Less: loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) Net income (loss) attributable to SLM Corporation $ 128 $ 570 $ 434 $ (155 ) $ $ 977 $ (344 ) $ 633 (1) The eliminations in servicing revenue and direct operating expense represent the elimination of intercompany servicing revenue where the Business Services segment performs the loan servicing function for the FFELP Loans segment. (2) Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP: Year Ended December 31, 2011 (Dollars in millions) Net ImpactofDerivativeAccounting Net Impact ofGoodwill andAcquiredIntangibles Total Net interest income after provisions for loan losses $ 465 $ $ 465 Total other loss (1,005 ) (1,005 ) Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairmentand amortization 24 24 Total Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP $ (540 ) $ (24 ) (564 ) Income tax benefit (220 ) Net loss $ (344 ) (3) Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segment. 39 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 (Dollars in millions) ConsumerLending BusinessServices FFELPLoans Other Eliminations(1) Total CoreEarnings Adjustments(2) TotalGAAP Interest income: Student loans $ 2,353 $ $ 2,766 $ $ $ 5,119 $ 579 $ 5,698 Other loans 30 30 30 Cash and investments 14 17 9 3 (17 ) 26 26 Total interest income 2,367 17 2,775 33 (17 ) 5,175 579 5,754 Total interest expense 758 1,407 45 (17 ) 2,193 82 2,275 Net interest income (loss) 1,609 17 1,368 (12 ) 2,982 497 3,479 Less: provisions for loan losses 1,298 98 23 1,419 1,419 Net interest income (loss) after provisions for loan losses 311 17 1,270 (35 ) 1,563 497 2,060 Servicing revenue 72 912 68 1 (648 ) 405 405 Contingency revenue 330 330 330 Gains on debt repurchases 317 317 317 Other income (loss) 51 320 13 384 (414 ) (30 ) Total other income 72 1,293 388 331 (648 ) 1,436 (414 ) 1,022 Expenses: Direct operating expenses 350 500 736 12 (648 ) 950 950 Overhead expenses 258 258 258 Operating expenses 350 500 736 270 (648 ) 1,208 1,208 Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment and amortization 699 699 Restructuring expenses 12 7 54 12 85 85 Total expenses 362 507 790 282 (648 ) 1,293 699 1,992 Income from continuing operations, before income tax expense 21 803 868 14 1,706 (616 ) 1,090 Income tax expense(3) 8 288 311 4 611 (118 ) 493 Net income from continuing operations 13 515 557 10 1,095 (498 ) 597 Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes (67 ) (67 ) (67 ) Net income (loss) $ 13 $ 515 $ 557 $ (57 ) $ $ 1,028 $ (498 ) $ 530 (1) The eliminations in servicing revenue and direct operating expense represent the elimination of intercompany servicing revenue where the Business Services segment performs the loan servicing function for the FFELP Loans segment. (2) Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP: Year Ended December 31, 2010 (Dollars in millions) Net ImpactofDerivativeAccounting Net Impact ofGoodwill andAcquiredIntangibles Total Net interest income after provisions for loan losses $ 497 $ $ 497 Total other loss (414 ) (414) Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairmentand amortization 699 699 Total Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP $ 83 $ (699 ) (616) Income tax benefit (118) Net loss $ (498) (3) Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segment. 40 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) ConsumerLending BusinessServices FFELPLoans Other Eliminations(1) Total CoreEarnings Adjustments(2) TotalGAAP Interest income: Student loans $ 2,254 $ $ 3,252 $ $ $ 5,506 $ (830 ) $ 4,676 Other loans 56 56 56 Cash and investments 13 20 26 (10 ) (20 ) 29 (3 ) 26 Total interest income 2,267 20 3,278 46 (20 ) 5,591 (833 ) 4,758 Total interest expense 721 2,238 66 (20 ) 3,005 30 3,035 Net interest income (loss) 1,546 20 1,040 (20 ) 2,586 (863 ) 1,723 Less: provisions for loan losses 1,399 119 46 1,564 (445 ) 1,119 Net interest income (loss) after provisions for loan losses 147 20 921 (66 ) 1,022 (418 ) 604 Servicing revenue 70 954 75 (659 ) 440 440 Contingency revenue 294 294 294 Gains on debt repurchases 536 536 536 Other income 55 292 1 348 (285 ) 63 Total other income 70 1,303 367 537 (659 ) 1,618 (285 ) 1,333 Expenses: Direct operating expenses 265 440 754 6 (659 ) 806 806 Overhead expenses 237 237 237 Operating expenses 265 440 754 243 (659 ) 1,043 1,043 Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment and amortization 76 76 Restructuring expenses 2 2 8 (2 ) 10 10 Total expenses 267 442 762 241 (659 ) 1, 053 76 1,129 Income (loss) from continuing operations, before income tax expense (benefit) (50 ) 881 526 230 1,587 (779 ) 808 Income tax expense (benefit)(3) (18 ) 311 186 81 560 (296 ) 264 Net income (loss) from continuing operations (32 ) 570 340 149 1,027 (483 ) 544 Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes (220 ) (220 ) (220 ) Net income (loss) $ (32 ) $ 570 $ 340 $ (71 ) $ $ 807 $ (483 ) $ 324 (1) The eliminations in servicing revenue and direct operating expense represent the elimination of intercompany servicing revenue where the Business Services segment performs the loan servicing function for the FFELP Loans segment. (2) Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP: Year Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) Net Impact ofDerivativeAccounting Net Impact ofGoodwill andAcquiredIntangibles Net Impact ofSecuritizationAccounting Total Net interest income (loss) $ 78 $ $ (941 ) $ (863 ) Less: provisions for loan losses (445 ) (445 ) Net interest income (loss) after provisions for loan losses 78 (496 ) (418 ) Total other income (loss) (580 ) 295 (285 ) Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment and amortization 76 76 Total Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP $ (502 ) $ (76 ) $ (201 ) (779 ) Income tax benefit (296 ) Net loss $ (483 ) (3) Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segment. 41 Table of Contents Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP The three adjustments required to reconcile from our Core Earnings results to our GAAP results of operations relate to differing treatments for: (1) our use of derivatives instruments to hedge our economic risks that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment or do qualify for hedge accounting treatment but result in ineffectiveness (2) the accounting for goodwill and acquired intangible assets and (3) the off balance sheet treatment of certain securitization transactions. The following table reflects aggregate adjustments associated with these areas. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP: Net impact of derivative accounting $ (540 ) $ 83 $ (502 ) Net impact of goodwill and acquired intangibles (24 ) (699 ) (76 ) Net impact of securitization accounting (201 ) Net income tax effect 220 118 296 Total Core Earnings adjustments to GAAP $ (344 ) $ (498 ) $ (483 ) 1) Derivative Accounting: Core Earnings exclude periodic unrealized gains and losses that are caused primarily by the mark to market valuations on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under GAAP. To a lesser extent, these periodic unrealized gains and losses are also a result of ineffectiveness recognized related to effective hedges. These unrealized gains and losses occur in our Consumer Lending, FFELP Loans and Other business segments. Under GAAP, for our derivatives that are held to maturity, the cumulative net unrealized gain or loss over the life of the contract will equal $0 except for Floor Income Contracts where the cumulative unrealized gain will equal the amount for which we sold the contract. In our Core Earnings presentation, we recognize the economic effect of these hedges, which generally results in any net settlement cash paid or received being recognized ratably as an interest expense or revenue over the hedged items life. The accounting for derivatives requires that changes in the fair value of derivative instruments be recognized currently in earnings, with no fair value adjustment of the hedged item, unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. We believe that our derivatives are effective economic hedges, and as such, are a critical element of our interest rate and foreign currency risk management strategy. However, some of our derivatives, primarily Floor Income Contracts and certain basis swaps, do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and the stand alone derivative must be marked to market in the income statement with no consideration for the corresponding change in fair value of the hedged item. These gains and losses recorded in Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net are primarily caused by interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate volatility and changing credit spreads during the period as well as the volume and term of derivatives not receiving hedge accounting treatment. Our Floor Income Contracts are written options that must meet more stringent requirements than other hedging relationships to achieve hedge effectiveness. Specifically, our Floor Income Contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment because the pay down of principal of the student loans underlying the Floor Income embedded in those student loans does not exactly match the change in the notional amount of our written Floor Income Contracts. Additionally, the term and the interest rate index of the Floor Income Contract is different than that of the student loans. Under derivatives accounting treatment, the upfront payment is deemed a liability and changes in fair value are recorded through income throughout the life of the contract. The change in the value of Floor Income Contracts is primarily caused by changing interest rates that cause the amount of Floor Income earned on the underlying student loans and paid to the counterparties to vary. This is economically offset by the change in value of the student loan portfolio earning Floor Income but that offsetting change in value is not recognized. We believe the Floor Income Contracts are economic hedges because they effectively fix the amount of Floor Income earned over the contract period, thus eliminating the timing and uncertainty that changes 42 Table of Contents in interest rates can have on Floor Income for that period. Therefore, for purposes of Core Earnings, we have removed the unrealized gains and losses related to these contracts and added back the amortization of the net premiums received on the Floor Income Contracts. The amortization of the net premiums received on the Floor Income Contracts for Core Earnings is reflected in student loan interest income. Under GAAP accounting, the premium received on the Floor Income Contracts is recorded as revenue in the gains (losses) on derivatives and hedging activities, net line item by the end of the contracts life. Basis swaps are used to convert floating rate debt from one floating interest rate index to another to better match the interest rate characteristics of the assets financed by that debt. We primarily use basis swaps to hedge our student loan assets that are primarily indexed to a commercial paper, Prime or Treasury bill index. In addition, we use basis swaps to convert debt indexed to the Consumer Price Index to three month LIBOR debt. The accounting for derivatives requires that when using basis swaps, the change in the cash flows of the hedge effectively offset both the change in the cash flows of the asset and the change in the cash flows of the liability. Our basis swaps hedge variable interest rate risk; however, they generally do not meet this effectiveness test because the index of the swap does not exactly match the index of the hedged assets as required for hedge accounting treatment. Additionally, some of our FFELP Loans can earn at either a variable or a fixed interest rate depending on market interest rates and therefore swaps economically hedging these FFELP Loans do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting treatment. As a result, under GAAP, these swaps are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value reflected currently in the income statement. The table below quantifies the adjustments for derivative accounting on our net income. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Core Earnings derivative adjustments: Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net, included in other income(1) $ (959 ) $ (361 ) $ (604 ) Plus: Realized losses on derivative and hedging activities, net(1) 806 815 322 Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net (153 ) 454 (282 ) Amortization of net premiums on Floor Income Contracts in net interest income for Core Earnings (355 ) (317 ) (197 ) Other pre change in derivatives accounting adjustments (32 ) (54 ) (23 ) Total net impact derivative accounting(2) $ (540 ) $ 83 $ (502 ) (1) See Reclassification of Realized Gains (Losses) on Derivative and Hedging Activities below for a detailed breakdown of the components of realized losses on derivative and hedging activities. (2) Negative amounts are subtracted from Core Earnings to arrive at GAAP net income and positive amounts are added to Core Earnings to arrive at GAAP net income. 43 Table of Contents Reclassification of Realized Gains (Losses) on Derivative and Hedging Activities Derivative accounting requires net settlement income/expense on derivatives and realized gains/losses related to derivative dispositions (collectively referred to as realized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities) that do not qualify as hedges to be recorded in a separate income statement line item below net interest income. Under our Core Earnings presentation, these gains and losses are reclassified to the income statement line item of the economically hedged item. For our Core Earnings net interest margin, this would primarily include: (a) reclassifying the net settlement amounts related to our Floor Income Contracts to student loan interest income and (b) reclassifying the net settlement amounts related to certain of our basis swaps to debt interest expense. The table below summarizes the realized losses on derivative and hedging activities and the associated reclassification on a Core Earnings basis. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Reclassification of realized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities: Net settlement expense on Floor Income Contracts reclassified to net interest income $ (902 ) $ (888 ) $ (717 ) Net settlement income (expense) on interest rate swaps reclassified to net interest income 71 69 412 Foreign exchange derivatives gains/(losses) reclassified to other income (15 ) Net realized gains (losses) on terminated derivative contracts reclassified to other income 25 4 (2 ) Total reclassifications of realized (gains) losses on derivative and hedging activities (806 ) (815 ) (322 ) Add: Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net(1) (153 ) 454 (282 ) Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net $ (959 ) $ (361 ) $ (604 ) (1) Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net comprises the following unrealized mark to market gains (losses): Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Floor Income Contracts $ (267 ) $ 156 $ 483 Basis swaps 104 341 (413 ) Foreign currency hedges (32 ) (83 ) (255 ) Other 42 40 (97 ) Total unrealized gains (losses) on derivative andhedging activities, net $(153) $454 $(282) 44 Table of Contents Cumulative Impact of Derivative Accounting under GAAP compared to Core Earnings As of December 31, 2011, derivative accounting has reduced GAAP equity by approximately $1.0 billion as a result of approximately $1.0 billion (after tax) of cumulative net unrealized net losses recognized for GAAP, but not in Core Earnings. The following table rolls forward the cumulative impact to GAAP equity due to these unrealized net losses related to derivative accounting. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Beginning impact of derivative accounting on GAAP equity $ (676 ) $ (737 ) $ (452 ) Net impact of net unrealized gains/(losses) under derivative accounting (301 ) 61 (285 ) Ending impact of derivative accounting on GAAP equity $ (977 ) $ (676 ) $ (737 ) In addition, net Floor premiums received on Floor Income Contracts that have not been amortized into Core Earnings as of the respective year ends are presented in the table below. These net premiums will be recognized in Core Earnings in future periods and are presented below net of tax. As of December 31, 2011, the remaining amortization term of the net floor premiums was approximately 4.5 years. (Dollars in millions) December 31,2011 December 31,2010 December 31,2009 Unamortized net Floor premiums (net of tax) $ (772 ) $ (363 ) $ (421 ) 2) Goodwill and Acquired Intangibles: Our Core Earnings exclude goodwill and intangible impairment and the amortization of acquired intangibles. The following table summarizes the goodwill and acquired intangible adjustments. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Core Earnings goodwill and acquired intangibles adjustments: Goodwill and intangible impairment of acquired intangibles from continuing operations $ $ (660 ) $ (36 ) Goodwill and intangible impairment of acquired intangibles from discontinued operations, net of tax (1 ) Amortization of acquired intangibles from continuing operations (24 ) (39 ) (38 ) Amortization of acquired intangibles from discontinued operations, net of tax (1 ) Total Core Earnings goodwill and acquired intangibles adjustments(1) $ (24 ) $ (699 ) $ (76 ) (1) Negative amounts are subtracted from Core Earnings to arrive at GAAP net income and positive amounts are added to Core Earnings to arrive at GAAP net income. 45 Table of Contents 3) Securitization Accounting: On January 1, 2010, we adopted the new consolidation accounting guidance which consolidated our off balance sheet securitization trusts. As a result, from 2010 forward, there is no longer a difference between our GAAP and Core Earnings presentation for securitization accounting. (See Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies for further detail). Prior to the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, certain securitization transactions in our FFELP Loans and Consumer Lending business segments were accounted for as sales of assets. Under Core Earnings for the FFELP Loans and Consumer Lending business segments, we present all securitization transactions as long term non recourse financings. The upfront gains on sale from securitization transactions, as well as ongoing securitization servicing and Residual Interest revenue (loss) presented in accordance with GAAP, were excluded from Core Earnings and were replaced by interest income, provisions for loan losses, and interest expense as earned or incurred on the securitization loans. The additional net interest margin included in Core Earnings contained any related fees or costs such as Consolidation Loan Rebate Fees, premium and discount amortization as well as any Repayment Borrower Benefit yield adjustments. We also excluded transactions with our off balance sheet trusts from Core Earnings as they were considered intercompany transactions on a Core Earnings basis. While we believe that our Core Earnings presentation presents the economic substance of results from our loan portfolios, when compared to GAAP results, it understates earnings volatility from securitization gains, securitization servicing income and Residual Interest income. The following table summarizes Core Earnings securitization adjustments for the Consumer Lending and FFELP Loans business segments for the year ended December 31, 2009. Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2009 Core Earnings securitization adjustments: Net interest income on securitized loans, before provisions for loan losses and before intercompany transactions $ (942 ) Provisions for loan losses 445 Net interest income on securitized loans, after provisions for loan losses, before intercompany transactions (497 ) Intercompany transactions with off balance sheet trusts 1 Net interest income on securitized loans, after provisions for loan losses (496 ) Securitization servicing and Residual Interest revenue 295 Total Core Earnings securitization adjustments(1) $ (201 ) (1) Negative amounts are subtracted from Core Earnings to arrive at GAAP net income and positive amounts are added to Core Earnings to arrive at GAAP net income. 46 Table of Contents Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis Consumer Lending Segment The following table includes Core Earnings results for our Consumer Lending segment. Years Ended December 31, % Increase (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Core Earnings interest income: Private Education Loans $ 2,429 $ 2,353 $ 2,254 3 % 4 % Cash and investments 9 14 13 (36 ) 8 Total Core Earnings interest income 2,438 2,367 2,267 3 4 Total Core Earnings interest expense 804 758 721 6 5 Net Core Earnings interest income 1,634 1,609 1,546 2 4 Less: provisions for loan losses 1,179 1,298 1,399 (9 ) (7 ) Net Core Earnings interest income after provisions for loan losses 455 311 147 46 112 Servicing revenue 64 72 70 (11 ) 3 Other income (loss) (9 ) (100 ) Total income 55 72 70 (24 ) 3 Direct operating expenses 304 350 265 (13 ) 32 Restructuring expenses 3 12 2 (75 ) 500 Total expenses 307 362 267 (15 ) 36 Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) 203 21 (50 ) 867 142 Income tax expense (benefit) 75 8 (18 ) 838 144 Core Earnings (loss) $ 128 $ 13 $ (32 ) 885 % (141 )% Core Earnings were $128 million in 2011, compared with Core Earnings of $13 million in 2010. This increase was primarily the result of lower provision for loan losses and operating expenses. Highlights compared to 2010 included: Loan originations increased to $2.7 billion, up 19 percent from $2.3 billion. The portfolio, net of loan loss allowance, totaled $36.3 billion at December 31, 2011, compared with $35.7 billion at December 31, 2010. Net interest margin, before loan loss provision, improved to 4.1 percent, up from 3.9 percent. Delinquencies of 90 days or more (as a percentage of loans in repayment) improved to 4.9 percent, compared with 5.3 percent. The annual charge off rate (as a percentage of loans in repayment) improved to 3.7 percent, compared with 5.0 percent. 47 Table of Contents Consumer Lending Net Interest Margin The following table shows the Consumer Lending Core Earnings net interest margin along with reconciliation to the GAAP basis Consumer Lending net interest margin before provision for loan losses. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Core Earnings basis Private Education student loan yield 6.34 % 6.15 % 5.99 % Discount amortization .23 .29 .26 Core Earnings basis Private Education Loan net yield 6.57 6.44 6.25 Core Earnings basis Private Education Loan cost of funds (1.99 ) (1.79 ) (1.78 ) Core Earnings basis Private Education Loan spread 4.58 4.65 4.47 Core Earnings basis other asset spread impact (.49 ) (.80 ) (.62 ) Core Earnings basis Consumer Lending net interest margin(1) 4.09 % 3.85 % 3.85 % Core Earnings basis Consumer Lending net interest margin(1) 4.09 % 3.85 % 3.85 % Adjustment for GAAP accounting treatment (.08 ) .02 (.16 ) GAAP basis Consumer Lending net interest margin(1) 4.01 % 3.87 % 3.69 % (1) The average balances of our Consumer Lending Core Earnings basis interest earning assets for the respective periods are: (Dollars in millions) Private Education Loans $ 36,955 $ 36,534 $ 36,046 Other interest earning assets 3,015 5,204 4,072 Total Consumer Lending Core Earnings basis interest earning assets $ 39,970 $ 41,738 $ 40,118 The increase in the Core Earnings basis Consumer Lending net interest margin for 2011 over the prior year was primarily due to the decline in the average balance of our other asset portfolio. The size of the other asset portfolio, which is primarily securitization trust restricted cash and cash held at the Bank, has decreased significantly. This other asset portfolio earns a negative yield and as a result, when its relative weighting decreases compared to the Private Education Loan portfolio, the overall net interest margin increases. Private Education Loans Provision for Loan Losses and Charge Offs The following table summarizes the total Private Education Loans provisions for loan losses and charge offs on both a GAAP basis and a Core Earnings basis. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011(1) 2010 2009 Private Education Loan provision for loan losses, GAAP $ 1,179 $ 1,298 $ 967 Private Education Loan provision for loan losses, Core Earnings basis $ 1,179 $ 1,298 $ 1,399 Private Education Loan charge offs, GAAP $ 1,072 $ 1,291 $ 876 Private Education Loan charge offs, Core Earnings basis $ 1,072 $ 1,291 $ 1,299 (1) We recorded an additional $124 million of provision for Private Education Loan losses in the third quarter of 2011 in connection with adopting new accounting rules related to troubled debt restructurings (TDRs). For a complete discussion of the effect of these new rules on our provision for Private Education Loan losses, see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Allowance for Loan Losses. 48 Table of Contents In establishing the allowance for Private Education Loan losses as of December 31, 2011, we considered several factors with respect to our Private Education Loan portfolio. In particular, we continue to see improving credit quality and continuing positive delinquency and charge off trends in connection with this portfolio. Improving credit quality is seen in higher FICO scores and cosigner rates, as well as a more seasoned portfolio compared with the previous year. The delinquency rate has declined to 10.1 percent from 10.6 percent and the charge off rate has declined to 3.7 percent from 5.0 percent compared with the previous year. Apart from these overall improvements in credit quality, delinquency and charge off trends, Private Education Loans which defaulted between 2008 and 2011 for which we have previously charged off estimated losses have, to varying degrees, not met our post default recovery expectations to date and may continue not to do so. We have been charging off these periodic shortfalls in expected recoveries against our allowance for Private Education Loan losses and the related receivable for partially charged off Private Education Loans and we will continue to do so. Differences in actual future recoveries on these defaulted loans could affect our receivable for partially charged off Private Education Loans. In the third quarter of 2011, we increased our provision for Private Education Loan losses for the quarter in the amount of $143 million to reflect these uncertainties. Continuing historically high unemployment rates may negatively affect future Private Education Loan default and recovery expectations over our estimated two year loss confirmation period. Consequently, we have also given consideration to these factors in projecting charge offs for this period and establishing our allowance for Private Education Loan losses. We will continue to monitor defaults and recoveries in light of the continuing weak economy and high unemployment rates. For a more detailed discussion of our policy for determining the collectability of Private Education Loan and maintaining our allowance for Private Education Loan losses, see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Allowance for Loan Losses. Servicing Revenue and Other Income Consumer Lending Segment Servicing revenue for our Consumer Lending segment primarily includes late fees and forbearance fees. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, servicing revenue for our Consumer Lending segment totaled $64 million, $72 million and $70 million, respectively. Included in other income for the year ended December 31, 2011 was a $9 million mark to market loss related to classifying our entire $12 million portfolio of non U.S. dollar denominated student loans as held for sale. Operating Expenses Consumer Lending Segment Operating expenses for our Consumer Lending segment include costs incurred to originate Private Education Loans and to service and collect on our Private Education Loan portfolio. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, operating expenses for our Consumer Lending segment totaled $304 million, $350 million and $265 million, respectively. 2011 versus 2010 The decrease in operating expenses in the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with the year ago period was primarily the result of our cost cutting initiatives. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring related asset impairments, were 82 basis points and 96 basis points of average Private Education Loans in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 2010 versus 2009 Operating expenses increased $85 million from 2009, primarily as the result of a non recurring $11 million benefit in 2009 related to reversing a contingency reserve, an increase in collection and servicing costs from a higher number of loans in repayment and delinquency status and higher marketing and technology enhancement costs related to Private Education Loans in 2010. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring related asset impairments, were 96 basis points and 74 basis points, respectively, of average Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. 49 Table of Contents Business Services Segment The following tables include Core Earnings results for our Business Services segment. Years Ended December 31, % Increase (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Net interest income after provision $ 11 $ 17 $ 20 (35 )% (15 )% Servicing revenue: Intercompany loan servicing 739 648 659 14 (2 ) Third party loan servicing 82 77 53 6 45 Guarantor servicing 52 93 152 (44 ) (39 ) Other servicing 97 94 90 3 4 Total servicing revenue 970 912 954 6 (4 ) Contingency revenue 333 330 294 1 12 Other Business Services revenue 70 51 55 37 (7 ) Total other income 1,373 1,293 1,303 6 (1 ) Direct operating expenses 482 500 440 (4 ) 14 Restructuring expenses 3 7 2 (57 ) 250 Total expenses 485 507 442 (4 ) 15 Income from continuing operations, before income tax expense 899 803 881 12 (9 ) Income tax expense 330 288 311 15 (7 ) Core Earnings 569 515 570 10 (10 ) Less: net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (1 ) (100 ) Core Earnings attributable to SLM Corporation $ 570 $ 515 $ 570 11 % (10 )% Core Earnings were $570 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $515 million in the year ago period. The improvement was primarily driven by the acquisition of existing FFELP Loans from other lenders, including $25 billion acquired in the fourth quarter of 2010. Our Business Services segment earns intercompany loan servicing fees from servicing the FFELP Loans in our FFELP Loans segment. The average balance of this portfolio was $141 billion, $128 billion and $135 billion for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in intercompany loan servicing revenue from the year ago periods is primarily the result of the acquisition of an existing $25 billion FFELP Loan portfolio on December 31, 2010 partially offset by amortization of the underlying portfolio and FFELP Loans sold to ED as part of EDs Purchase Program in 2010. We are servicing approximately 3.6 million accounts under the ED Servicing Contract as of December 31, 2011. Third party loan servicing fees in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 included $63 million and $44 million, respectively, of servicing revenue related to the ED Servicing Contract. Our allocation of loans awarded for servicing under the ED contract increased from 22 percent to 26 percent for the contract year ending August 2012. The increase was driven primarily by our top ranking for default prevention performance results. The decrease in Guarantor servicing revenue compared with the year ago periods was primarily due to the elimination of FFELP in 2010, thereby eliminating any new Guarantor issuance fees we could earn. Outstanding FFELP Loans on which we earn additional fees also declined. Other servicing revenue includes account asset servicing revenue and Campus Solutions revenue. Account asset servicing revenue represents fees earned on program management, transfer and servicing agent services and 50 Table of Contents administration services for our various 529 college savings plans. Assets under administration in our 529 college savings plans totaled $37.5 billion as of December 31, 2011, a 9 percent increase from 2010. Campus Solutions revenue is earned from our Campus Solutions business whose services include comprehensive transaction processing solutions and associated technology that we provide to college financial aid offices and students to streamline the financial aid process. The following table presents the outstanding inventory of contingent collections receivables that our Business Services segment will collect on behalf of others. We expect the inventory of contingent collections receivables to decline over time as a result of the elimination of FFELP. December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Contingency: Student loans $ 11,553 $ 10,362 $ 8,762 Other 2,017 1,730 1,262 Total $ 13,570 $ 12,092 $ 10,024 Other Business Services revenue is primarily transaction fees that are earned in conjunction with our rewards program from participating companies based on member purchase activity, either online or in stores, depending on the contractual arrangement with the participating company. Typically, a percentage of the purchase price of the consumer members eligible purchases with participating companies is set aside in an account maintained by us on behalf of our members. In fourth quarter 2011, we terminated our credit card affiliation program with a third party bank and concurrently entered into an affiliation program with a new bank. In terminating the old program we recognized a $25 million gain which primarily represented prior cash advances we received that were previously recorded as deferred revenue. Revenues related to services performed on FFELP Loans accounted for 76 percent, 78 percent and 79 percent of total segment revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011, we launched Sallie Mae Insurance Services, which offers directly to college students and higher education institutions tuition, renters and student health insurance. We also include a Tuition Insurance Benefit with our Smart Option Student Loan. On September 1, 2011, we acquired SC Services & Associates, Inc., a provider of collections services to local governments and courts. This acquisition enhances and complements our other contingency collection businesses. Operating Expenses Business Services Segment For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, operating expenses for the Business Services segment totaled $482 million, $500 million and $440 million, respectively. 2011 versus 2010 Operating expenses for 2011 decreased from 2010, primarily as a result of our cost cutting initiatives. Included in operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011 is approximately $33 million in third party servicing costs associated with our acquisition of $25 billion of existing FFELP Loans at the end of 2010. During third quarter 2011, we began transitioning these loans to our own servicing platform and completed the transfer in October 2011. With the portfolio fully transitioned, the servicing costs associated with these loans will be significantly less in 2012. 51 Table of Contents 2010 versus 2009 Operating expenses increased $60 million from 2009 to 2010 primarily due to higher technology and other expenses related to preparation for higher volumes for the ED Servicing Contract as well as an increase in legal contingency expenses. FFELP Loans Segment The following table includes Core Earnings results for our FFELP Loans segment. Years Ended December 31, % Increase (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Core Earnings interest income: FFELP Loans $ 2,914 $ 2,766 $ 3,252 5 % (15 )% Cash and investments 5 9 26 (44 ) (65 ) Total Core Earnings interest income 2,919 2,775 3,278 5 (15 ) Total Core Earnings interest expense 1,472 1,407 2,238 5 (37 ) Net Core Earnings interest income 1,447 1,368 1,040 6 32 Less: provisions for loan losses 86 98 119 (12 ) (18 ) Net Core Earnings interest income after provisions for loan losses 1,361 1,270 921 7 38 Servicing revenue 85 68 75 25 (9 ) Other income 1 320 292 (100 ) 10 Total other income 86 388 367 (78 ) 6 Direct operating expenses 760 736 754 3 (2 ) Restructuring expenses 1 54 8 (98 ) 575 Total expenses 761 790 762 (4 ) 4 Income from continuing operations, before income tax expense 686 868 526 (21 ) 65 Income tax expense 252 311 186 (19 ) 67 Core Earnings $ 434 $ 557 $ 340 (22 )% 64 % Core Earnings from the FFELP Loans segment were $434 million in fiscal year 2011, compared with $557 million in the year ago period. The prior year had a $321 million gain from the sale of loans. Key financial measures include: Net interest margin of .98 percent in the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with .93 percent in the year ago period. The provision for loan losses of $86 million in the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased from $98 million in the year ago period. 52 Table of Contents FFELP Loans Net Interest Margin The following table shows the FFELP Loans Core Earnings net interest margin along with reconciliation to the GAAP basis FFELP Loans net interest margin. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Core Earnings basis FFELP student loan yield 2.59 % 2.57 % 2.68 % Hedged Floor Income .25 .23 .14 Unhedged Floor Income .12 .02 .22 Consolidation Loan Rebate Fees (.65 ) (.59 ) (.59 ) Repayment Borrower Benefits (.12 ) (.10 ) (.11 ) Premium amortization (.15 ) (.18 ) (.17 ) Core Earnings basis FFELP student loan net yield 2.04 1.95 2.17 Core Earnings basis FFELP student loan cost of funds (.98 ) (.93 ) (1.44 ) Core Earnings basis FFELP student loan spread 1.06 1.02 .73 Core Earnings basis FFELP other asset spread impact (.08 ) (.09 ) (.06 ) Core Earnings basis FFELP Loans net interest margin(1) .98 % .93 % .67 % Core Earnings basis FFELP Loans net interest margin(1) .98 % .93 % .67 % Adjustment for GAAP accounting treatment .34 .33 (.08 ) GAAP basis FFELP Loans net interest margin 1.32 % 1.26 % .59 % (1) The average balances of our FFELP Core Earnings basis interest earning assets for the respective periods are: (Dollars in millions) FFELP Loans $ 143,109 $ 142,043 $ 150,059 Other interest earning assets 5,194 5,562 5,126 Total FFELP Core Earnings basis interest earning assets $ 148,303 $ 147,605 $ 155,185 The increase in the Core Earnings basis FFELP Loans net interest margin of 5 basis points for 2011 compared with 2010 was primarily the result of an increase in Floor Income due to lower interest rates. The Core Earnings basis FFELP Loans net interest margin for 2010 increased by 26 basis points from 2009. This was primarily the result of a significant reduction in the cost of our ABCP Facility, a 24 basis point improvement in the CP/LIBOR Spread and a significantly higher margin on the loans within the EDs Loan Participation Purchase Program (the Participation Program) facility compared with the prior year. As of December 31, 2011, our FFELP Loan portfolio totaled approximately $138.1 billion, comprised of $50.4 billion of FFELP Stafford and $87.7 billion of FFELP Consolidation Loans. The weighted average life of these portfolios is 5.0 years and 9.2 years, respectively, assuming a Constant Prepayment Rate (CPR) of 5 percent and 3 percent, respectively. On December 23, 2011, the President signed the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012 into law. This law includes changes that permit FFELP lenders or beneficial holders to change the index on which the Special Allowance Payments (SAP) are calculated for FFELP Loans first disbursed on or after January 1, 2000. The law allows holders to elect to move the index from the Commercial Paper (CP) Rate to the one month LIBOR rate. Such elections must be made by April 1, 2012. As of December 31, 2011, we had $130 billion of loans where we intend to elect the change. This change will help us to better match lender payments with our financing costs. We currently expect the new formula to be developed and available for use in the second quarter of 2012. 53 Table of Contents During the fourth quarter 2011, the Administration announced a Special Direct Consolidation Loan Initiative. The initiative provides an incentive to borrowers who have at least one student loan owned by the Department of Education and at least one held by a FFELP lender to consolidate the FFELP lenders loans into the Direct Loan program by providing a 0.25 percentage point interest rate reduction on the FFELP loans that are eligible for consolidation. The program is available from January 17, 2012 through June 30, 2012. We currently do not foresee the initiative having a significant impact on our FFELP segment. On December 31, 2010, we closed on our agreement to purchase an interest in $26.1 billion of securitized federal student loans and related assets from the Student Loan Corporation (SLC), a subsidiary of Citibank, N.A. The purchase price was approximately $1.1 billion and included the residual interest in 13 of SLCs 14 FFELP loan securitizations and its interest in SLC Funding Note Issuer. We service these assets and administer the securitization trusts. Because we have determined that we are the primary beneficiary of these trusts we have consolidated these trusts onto our balance sheet. Floor Income The following table analyzes the ability of the FFELP Loans in our portfolio to earn Floor Income after December 31, 2011 and 2010, based on interest rates as of those dates. December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 (Dollars in billions) FixedBorrowerRate VariableBorrowerRate Total FixedBorrowerRate VariableBorrowerRate Total Student loans eligible to earn Floor Income $ 118.3 $ 17.7 $ 136.0 $ 124.5 $ 21.0 $ 145.5 Less: post March 31, 2006 disbursed loans required to rebate Floor Income (62.7 ) (1.2 ) (63.9 ) (66.1 ) (1.3 ) (67.4 ) Less: economically hedged Floor Income Contracts (41.5 ) (41.5 ) (39.2 ) (39.2 ) Student loans eligible to earn Floor Income $ 14.1 $ 16.5 $ 30.6 $ 19.2 $ 19.7 $ 38.9 Student loans earning Floor Income $ 14.1 $ 2.3 $ 16.4 $ 19.2 $ 1.3 $ 20.5 We have sold the above referenced Floor Income contracts to economically hedge the potential Floor Income from specifically identified pools of FFELP Consolidation Loans that are eligible to earn Floor Income. The following table presents a projection of the average balance of FFELP Consolidation Loans for which Fixed Rate Floor Income has been economically hedged through the sale of Floor Income Contracts for the period January 1, 2012 to June 30, 2016. The Floor Income Contracts related to these loans do not qualify as effective hedges under GAAP accounting. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in billions) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Average balance of FFELP Consolidation Loans whose Floor Income is economically hedged $ 38.3 $ 32.6 $ 28.3 $ 27.2 $ 10.4 54 Table of Contents FFELP Loans Provision for Loan Losses and Charge Offs The following table summarizes the total FFELP Loan provision for loan losses and charge offs on both a GAAP basis and a Core Earnings basis. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 FFELP Loan provision for loan losses, GAAP $ 86 $ 98 $ 106 FFELP Loan provision for loan losses, Core Earnings basis $ 86 $ 98 $ 119 FFELP Loan charge offs, GAAP $ 78 $ 87 $ 79 FFELP Loan charge offs, Core Earnings basis $ 78 $ 87 $ 94 Servicing Revenue and Other Income FFELP Loans Segment The following table summarizes the components of Core Earnings other income for our FFELP Loans segment. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Servicing revenue $ 85 $ 68 $ 75 Gains on loans and investments, net 325 284 Other 1 (5 ) 8 Total other income, net $ 86 $ 388 $ 367 Servicing revenue for our FFELP Loans segment primarily consists of borrower late fees. The gains on loans and investments in 2010 and 2009 related primarily to the sale of $20.4 billion and $18.5 billion loans, respectively, of FFELP Loans to ED as part of the ED Purchase Program. Operating Expenses FFELP Loans Segment Operating expenses for our FFELP Loans segment primarily include the contractual rates we pay to service loans in term asset backed securitization trusts or a similar rate if a loan is not in a term financing facility (which is presented as an intercompany charge from the Business Services segment who services the loans), the fees we pay for third party loan servicing and costs incurred to acquire loans. The intercompany revenue charged from the Business Services segment and included in those amounts was $739 million, $648 million and $659 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These amounts exceed the actual cost of servicing the loans. 2011 versus 2010 The increase in operating expenses from the prior year was primarily the result of the increase in servicing costs related to the $25 billion loan portfolio acquisition on December 31, 2010. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring related asset impairments, were 53 basis points and 51 basis points of average FFELP Loans in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 2010 versus 2009 Operating expenses decreased $18 million from the prior year, primarily due to the effect of our cost cutting initiative in connection with the passage of HCERA. This was partially offset by a one time fee paid to acquire 55 Table of Contents the SLC portfolio, an increase in legal contingency expenses and costs related to closing and selling two loan originations centers in 2010. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring related asset impairments, were 51 basis points and 50 basis points of average Core Earnings basis FFELP Loans in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Other Segment The Other segment primarily consists of the financial results related to the repurchase of debt, the corporate liquidity portfolio and all overhead. We also include results from smaller wind down and discontinued operations within this segment. These are the Purchased Paper businesses and mortgage and other loan businesses. The Other segment includes our remaining businesses that do not pertain directly to the primary segments identified above. Overhead expenses include costs related to executive management, the board of directors, accounting, finance, legal, human resources, stock based compensation expense and certain information technology costs related to infrastructure and operations. The following table includes Core Earnings results for our Other segment. Years EndedDecember 31, % Increase (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Net interest loss after provision $ (58 ) $ (35 ) $ (66 ) 66 % (47 )% Gains on debt repurchases 64 317 536 (80 ) (41 ) Other (8 ) 14 1 (157 ) 1,300 Total income 56 331 537 (83 ) (38 ) Direct operating expenses 13 12 6 8 100 Overhead expenses: Corporate overhead 163 128 138 27 (7 ) Unallocated information technology costs 117 130 99 (10 ) 31 Total overhead expenses 280 258 237 9 9 Total operating expenses 293 270 243 9 11 Restructuring expenses 2 12 (2 ) (83 ) 700 Total expenses 295 282 241 5 17 Income (loss) from continuing operations, before income tax expense (benefit) (297 ) 14 230 (2,221 ) (94 ) Income tax expense (benefit) (109 ) 4 81 (2,825 ) (95 ) Net income (loss) from continuing operations (188 ) 10 149 (1,980 ) (93 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 33 (67 ) (220 ) 149 (70 ) Core Earnings net loss $ (155 ) $ (57 ) $ (71 ) 172 % (20 )% Purchased Paper Business Our Purchased Paper businesses are presented as discontinued operations for the current and prior periods (see Consolidated Earnings Summary GAAP basis for a further discussion). We sold our Purchased Paper Non Mortgage business, resulting in a $23 million after tax gain, in the third quarter of 2011. Gains on Debt Repurchases We began repurchasing our outstanding debt in the second quarter of 2008. We repurchased $894 million, $4.9 billion and $3.4 billion face amount of our senior unsecured notes in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Since the second quarter of 2008, we repurchased $11.1 billion face amount of our senior unsecured notes in the aggregate, with maturity dates ranging from 2008 to 2016. 56 Table of Contents Other Income 2011 had $26 million of impairment recorded related to our investments in leveraged leases. The impairment was primarily related to American Airlines filing for bankruptcy in the fourth quarter of 2011. As a result of their bankruptcy filing we fully impaired our related leveraged lease investments. We also have $13 million in operating leases at December 31, 2011 with American Airlines which we have determined are not impaired. As of December 31, 2011, our total remaining investment in airline leases is $40 million. Overhead Corporate overhead is comprised of costs related to executive management, the board of directors, accounting, finance, legal, human resources and stock based compensation expense. Unallocated information technology costs are related to infrastructure and operations. 2011 versus 2010 The increase in overhead from 2010 to 2011 was primarily the result of a change in the terms of our stock based compensation plans, additional expense related to the termination of our defined benefit pension plan, and restructuring related consulting expenses incurred in the first half of 2011. In the first quarter of 2011, we changed our stock based compensation plans so that retirement eligible employees would not forfeit unvested stock based compensation upon their retirement. This change had the effect of accelerating the future stock based compensation expenses associated with these unvested stock grants into the current period for those retirement eligible employees. We also recognized $16 million of additional expense in 2011 related to the termination of our defined benefit pension plan due to changes in estimates related to the employee termination benefits as well as changes in interest rates. 2010 versus 2009 Operating expenses increased $27 million from 2009 to 2010. This increase in corporate overhead was primarily attributable to increased technology costs associated with disaster recovery modernization, enterprise architecture and information security upgrades. Financial Condition This section provides additional information regarding the changes related to our loan portfolio assets and related liabilities as well as credit performance indicators related to our loan portfolio. Many of these disclosures will show both GAAP basis as well as Core Earnings basis disclosures. Because certain trusts were not consolidated prior to the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, these trusts were treated as off balance sheet for GAAP purposes but we considered them on balance sheet for Core Earnings purposes. Subsequent to the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, this difference no longer exists because all of our trusts are treated as on balance sheet for GAAP purposes. Below and elsewhere in the document, Core Earnings basis disclosures include all historically (pre January 1, 2010) off balance sheet trusts as though they were on balance sheet. We believe that providing Core Earnings basis disclosures is meaningful because when we evaluate the performance and risk characteristics of the Company we have always considered the effect of any off balance sheet trusts as though they were on balance sheet. 57 Table of Contents Average Balance Sheets GAAP The following table reflects the rates earned on interest earning assets and paid on interest bearing liabilities and reflects our net interest margin on a consolidated basis. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance Rate Balance Rate Balance Rate Average Assets FFELP Loans $ 143,109 2.42 % $ 142,043 2.36 % $ 128,538 2.41 % Private Education Loans 36,955 6.57 36,534 6.44 23,154 6.83 Other loans 233 9.16 323 9.20 561 9.98 Cash and investments 10,636 .18 12,729 .20 11,046 .24 Total interest earning assets 190,933 3.11 % 191,629 3.00 % 163,299 2.91 % Non interest earning assets 5,308 5,931 8,693 Total assets $ 196,241 $ 197,560 $ 171,992 Average Liabilities and Equity Short term borrowings $ 31,413 .89 % $ 38,634 .86 % $ 44,485 1.84 % Long term borrowings 156,151 1.36 150,768 1.29 118,699 1.87 Total interest bearing liabilities 187,564 1.28 % 189,402 1.20 % 163,184 1.86 % Non interest bearing liabilities 3,679 3,280 3,719 Equity 4,998 4,878 5,089 Total liabilities and equity $ 196,241 $ 197,560 $ 171,992 Net interest margin 1.85 % 1.82 % 1.05 % Rate/Volume Analysis GAAP The following rate/volume analysis shows the relative contribution of changes in interest rates and asset volumes. Increase(Decrease) Change Due To(1) (Dollars in millions) Rate Volume 2011 vs. 2010 Interest income $ 176 $ 197 $ (21 ) Interest expense 126 149 (23 ) Net interest income $ 50 $ 63 $ (13 ) 2010 vs. 2009 Interest income $ 996 $ 149 $ 847 Interest expense (760 ) (1,194 ) 434 Net interest income $ 1,756 $ 1,416 $ 340 (1) Changes in income and expense due to both rate and volume have been allocated in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each. The changes in income and expense are calculated independently for each line in the table. The totals for the rate and volume columns are not the sum of the individual lines. 58 Table of Contents Summary of our Student Loan Portfolio Ending Student Loan Balances, net December 31, 2011 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELPLoans PrivateEducationLoans Total Total student loan portfolio: In school(1) $ 3,100 $ $ 3,100 $ 2,263 $ 5,363 Grace, repayment and other(2) 46,618 86,925 133,543 35,830 169,373 Total, gross 49,718 86,925 136,643 38,093 174,736 Unamortized premium/(discount) 839 835 1,674 (873 ) 801 Receivable for partially charged off loans 1,241 1,241 Allowance for losses (117 ) (70 ) (187 ) (2,171 ) (2,358 ) Total student loan portfolio $ 50,440 $ 87,690 $ 138,130 $ 36,290 $ 174,420 % of total FFELP 37 % 63 % 100 % % of total 29 % 50 % 79 % 21 % 100 % December 31, 2010 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP PrivateEducationLoans Total Total student loan portfolio: In school(1) $ 6,333 $ $ 6,333 $ 3,752 $ 10,085 Grace, repayment and other(2) 49,068 91,537 140,605 33,780 174,385 Total, gross 55,401 91,537 146,938 37,532 184,470 Unamortized premium/(discount) 971 929 1,900 (894 ) 1,006 Receivable for partially charged off loans 1,040 1,040 Allowance for losses (120 ) (69 ) (189 ) (2,022 ) (2,211 ) Total student loan portfolio $ 56,252 $ 92,397 $ 148,649 $ 35,656 $ 184,305 % of FFELP 38 % 62 % 100 % % of total 31 % 50 % 81 % 19 % 100 % (1) Loans for borrowers still attending school and are not yet required to make payments on the loan. (2) Includes loans in deferment or forbearance. 59 Table of Contents Average Student Loan Balances (net of unamortized premium/discount) Year Ended December 31, 2011 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP PrivateEducationLoans Total Total(1) $ 53,163 $ 89,946 $ 143,109 $ 36,955 $ 180,064 % of FFELP 37 % 63 % 100 % % of total 29 % 50 % 79 % 21 % 100 % Year Ended December 31, 2010 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP PrivateEducationLoans Total Total(1) $ 61,034 $ 81,009 $ 142,043 $ 36,534 $ 178,577 % of FFELP 43 % 57 % 100 % % of total 34 % 46 % 80 % 20 % 100 % Year Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP PrivateEducationLoans Total GAAP basis $ 58,492 $ 70,046 $ 128,538 $ 23,154 $ 151,692 Off balance sheet 6,365 15,156 21,521 12,892 34,413 Total Core Earnings basis $ 64,857 $ 85,202 $ 150,059 $ 36,046 $ 186,105 % of GAAP basis FFELP 46 % 54 % 100 % % of Core Earnings basis FFELP 43 % 57 % 100 % % of total 35 % 46 % 81 % 19 % 100 % (1) Upon the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, we consolidated all of our off balance sheet securitization trusts. 60 Table of Contents Student Loan Activity Year Ended December 31, 2011 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP Total PrivateEducationLoans TotalPortfolio Beginning balance $ 56,252 $ 92,397 $ 148,649 $ 35,656 $ 184,305 Acquisitions and originations 814 802 1,616 2,942 4,558 Capitalized interest and premium/discount amortization 1,506 1,535 3,041 1,269 4,310 Consolidations to third parties (2,741 ) (1,058 ) (3,799 ) (69 ) (3,868 ) Sales (754 ) (754 ) (754 ) Repayments/defaults/other (4,637 ) (5,986 ) (10,623 ) (3,508 ) (14,131 ) Ending balance $ 50,440 $ 87,690 $ 138,130 $ 36,290 $ 174,420 Year Ended December 31, 2010 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP Total PrivateEducationLoans TotalPortfolio Beginning balance GAAP basis $ 52,675 $ 68,379 $ 121,054 $ 22,753 $ 143,807 Consolidation of off balance sheet loans(1) 5,500 14,797 20,297 12,341 32,638 Beginning balance total portfolio 58,175 83,176 141,351 35,094 176,445 Acquisitions and originations 14,349 76 14,425 2,434 16,859 Capitalized interest and premium/discount amortization 1,324 1,357 2,681 1,462 4,143 Consolidations to third parties (2,092 ) (793 ) (2,885 ) (46 ) (2,931 ) Loan acquisition on December 31, 2010 11,237 13,652 24,889 24,889 Sales (21,054 ) (71 ) (21,125 ) (21,125 ) Repayments/defaults/other (5,687 ) (5,000 ) (10,687 ) (3,288 ) (13,975 ) Ending balance $ 56,252 $ 92,397 $ 148,649 $ 35,656 $ 184,305 (1) On January 1, 2010, upon adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance, all off balance sheet loans are included in the GAAP basis. 61 Table of Contents GAAP BasisYear Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP Total PrivateEducationLoans Total On Balance SheetPortfolio Beginning balance $ 52,476 $ 71,744 $ 124,220 $ 20,582 $ 144,802 Consolidations to third parties (1,113 ) (518 ) (1,631 ) (8 ) (1,639 ) Acquisitions and originations(1) 25,677 1,150 26,827 4,343 31,170 Net acquisitions and originations 24,564 632 25,196 4,335 29,531 Securitization related(2) 645 645 645 Sales (19,300 ) (19,300 ) (19,300 ) Repayments/defaults/resales/other (5,710 ) (3,997 ) (9,707 ) (2,164 ) (11,871 ) Ending balance $ 52,675 $ 68,379 $ 121,054 $ 22,753 $ 143,807 Off Balance SheetYear Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP Total PrivateEducationLoans Total Off Balance SheetPortfolio Beginning balance $ 7,143 $ 15,531 $ 22,674 $ 12,917 $ 35,591 Consolidations to third parties (413 ) (138 ) (551 ) (18 ) (569 ) Acquisitions and originations(1) 135 208 343 498 841 Net acquisitions and originations (278 ) 70 (208 ) 480 272 Securitization related(2) (645 ) (645 ) (645 ) Repayments/defaults/resales/other (720 ) (804 ) (1,524 ) (1,056 ) (2,580 ) Ending balance $ 5,500 $ 14,797 $ 20,297 $ 12,341 $ 32,638 Core Earnings Basis PortfolioYear Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) FFELPStafford andOther FFELPConsolidationLoans TotalFFELP Total PrivateEducationLoans Total CoreEarnings BasisPortfolio Beginning balance $ 59,619 $ 87,275 $ 146,894 $ 33,499 $ 180,393 Consolidations to third parties (1,526 ) (656 ) (2,182 ) (26 ) (2,208 ) Acquisitions and originations(1) 25,812 1,358 27,170 4,841 32,011 Net acquisitions and originations 24,286 702 24,988 4,815 29,803 Securitization related(2) Sales (19,300 ) (19,300 ) (19,300 ) Repayments/defaults/resales/other (6,430 ) (4,801 ) (11,231 ) (3,220 ) (14,451 ) Ending balance $ 58,175 $ 83,176 $ 141,351 $ 35,094 $ 176,445 (1) Includes accrued interest receivable capitalized to principal during the period. (2) Represents loans within securitization trusts that we are required to consolidate under GAAP once the trusts loan balances are below the clean up call threshold. 62 Table of Contents Private Education Loan Originations Total Private Education Loan originations increased 19 percent from 2010 to $2.7 billion in the year ended December 31, 2011. The following table summarizes our Private Education Loan originations. Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Total Private Education Loan originations $ 2,737 $ 2,307 $ 3,176 Consumer Lending Portfolio Performance Private Education Loan Delinquencies and Forbearance The tables below present our Private Education Loan delinquency trends. GAAP BasisPrivate Education Loan Delinquencies December 31,2011 December 31,2010 December 31,2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 6,522 $ 8,340 $ 8,910 Loans in forbearance(2) 1,386 1,340 967 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 27,122 89.9 % 24,888 89.4 % 12,421 86.4 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 1,076 3.6 1,011 3.6 647 4.5 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 520 1.6 471 1.7 340 2.4 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 1,467 4.9 1,482 5.3 971 6.7 Total Private Education Loans in repayment 30,185 100 % 27,852 100 % 14,379 100 % Total Private Education Loans, gross 38,093 37,532 24,256 Private Education Loan unamortized discount (873 ) (894 ) (559 ) Total Private Education Loans 37,220 36,638 23,697 Private Education Loan receivable for partially charged off loans 1,241 1,040 499 Private Education Loan allowance for losses (2,171 ) (2,022 ) (1,443 ) Private Education Loans, net $ 36,290 $ 35,656 $ 22,753 Percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 79.2 % 74.2 % 59.3 % Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 10.1 % 10.6 % 13.6 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 4.4 % 4.6 % 6.3 % Loans in repayment greater than 12 months as a percentage of loans in repayment(4) 72.4 % 64.3 % 55.4 % (1) Deferment includes borrowers who have returned to school or are engaged in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation. (2) Loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period generally during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors, consistent with established loan program servicing policies and procedures. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. (4) Based on number of months in an active repayment status for which a scheduled monthly payment was due. 63 Table of Contents Off Balance SheetPrivate Education LoanDelinquencies(5) December 31,2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 2,546 Loans in forbearance(2) 453 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 8,987 90.0 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 332 3.3 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 151 1.5 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 517 5.2 Total Private Education Loans in repayment 9,987 100 % Total Private Education Loans, gross 12,986 Private Education Loan unamortized discount (349 ) Total Private Education Loans 12,637 Private Education Loan receivable for partially charged off loans 229 Private Education Loan allowance for losses (524 ) Private Education Loans, net $ 12,342 Percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 76.9 % Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 10.0 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 4.3 % Loans in repayment greater than 12 months as a percentage of loans in repayment(4) 56.3 % (1) Deferment includes borrowers who have returned to school or are engaged in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation. (2) Loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period generally during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors, consistent with established loan program servicing policies and procedures. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. (4) Based on number of months in an active repayment status for which a scheduled monthly payment was due. (5) On January 1, 2010, upon adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance, all off balance sheet loans are included in GAAP basis. 64 Table of Contents Core Earnings BasisPrivate Education Loan Delinquencies December 31,2011 December 31,2010 December 31,2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 6,522 $ 8,340 $ 11,456 Loans in forbearance(2) 1,386 1,340 1,420 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 27,122 89.9 % 24,888 89.4 % 21,408 87.9 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 1,076 3.6 1,011 3.6 979 4.0 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 520 1.6 471 1.7 491 2.0 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 1,467 4.9 1,482 5.3 1,488 6.1 Total Private Education Loans in repayment 30,185 100 % 27,852 100 % 24,366 100 % Total Private Education Loans, gross 38,093 37,532 37,242 Private Education Loan unamortized discount (873 ) (894 ) (908 ) Total Private Education Loans 37,220 36,638 36,334 Private Education Loan receivable for partially charged off loans 1,241 1,040 728 Private Education Loan allowance for losses (2,171 ) (2,022 ) (1,967 ) Private Education Loans, net $ 36,290 $ 35,656 $ 35,095 Percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 79.2 % 74.2 % 65.4 % Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 10.1 % 10.6 % 12.1 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 4.4 % 4.6 % 5.5 % Loans in repayment greater than 12 months as a percentage of loans in repayment(4) 72.4 % 64.3 % 55.8 % (1) Deferment includes borrowers who have returned to school or are engaged in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation. (2) Loans for borrowers who have requested extension of grace period generally during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors, consistent with established loan program servicing policies and procedures. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. (4) Based on number of months in an active repayment status for which a scheduled monthly payment was due. 65 Table of Contents Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses The following table summarizes changes in the allowance for Private Education Loan losses. Activity in Allowance for Private Education Loans GAAP BasisYears Ended December 31, Off Balance SheetYears Ended December 31, Core Earnings BasisYears Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011(1) 2010 2009 2011 2010(2) 2009 2011(1) 2010 2009 Allowance at beginning of period $ 2,022 $ 1,443 $ 1,308 $ $ 524 $ 505 $ 2,022 $ 1,967 $ 1,813 Provision for Private Education Loan losses(1) 1,179 1,298 967 432 1,179 1,298 1,399 Charge offs (1,072 ) (1,291 ) (876 ) (423 ) (1,072 ) (1,291 ) (1,299 ) Reclassification of interest reserve(3) 42 48 44 10 42 48 54 Consolidation of securitization trusts(2) 524 (524 ) Allowance at end of period $ 2,171 $ 2,022 $ 1,443 $ $ $ 524 $ 2,171 $ 2,022 $ 1,967 Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment 3.7 % 5.0 % 7.2 % % % 4.4 % 3.7 % 5.0 % 6.0 % Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment and forbearance 3.6 % 4.8 % 6.7 % % % 4.2 % 3.6 % 4.8 % 5.6 % Allowance as a percentage of the ending total loan balance(4) 5.5 % 5.2 % 5.8 % % % 4.0 % 5.5 % 5.2 % 5.2 % Allowance as a percentage of ending loans in repayment 7.2 % 7.3 % 10.0 % % % 5.2 % 7.2 % 7.3 % 8.1 % Allowance coverage of charge offs 2.0 1.6 1.6 1.2 2.0 1.6 1.5 Ending total loans(4) $ 39,334 $ 38,572 $ 24,755 $ $ $ 13,215 $ 39,334 $ 38,572 $ 37,970 Average loans in repayment $ 28,790 $ 25,596 $ 12,137 $ $ $ 9,597 $ 28,790 $ 25,596 $ 21,734 Ending loans in repayment $ 30,185 $ 27,852 $ 14,379 $ $ $ 9,987 $ 30,185 $ 27,852 $ 24,366 (1) See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Allowance for Loan Losses for a discussion regarding the impact of adopting new accounting guidance related to TDRs in the third quarter of 2011, which increased provisions for loan losses by $124 million in the third quarter of 2011. (2) On January 1, 2010, upon the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance, all off balance sheet loans are included in the GAAP basis. (3) Represents the additional allowance related to the amount of uncollectible interest reserved within interest income that is transferred in the period to the allowance for loan losses when interest is capitalized to a loans principal balance. (4) Ending total loans represents gross Private Education Loans, plus the receivable for partially charged off loans. 66 Table of Contents The following table provides the detail for our traditional and non traditional Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans. Years Ended December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) Traditional Non Traditional Total Traditional Non Traditional Total Traditional Non Traditional Total Ending total loans(1) $ 35,233 $ 4,101 $ 39,334 $ 34,177 $ 4,395 $ 38,572 $ 33,223 $ 4,747 $ 37,970 Ending loans in repayment 27,467 2,718 30,185 25,043 2,809 27,852 21,453 2,913 24,366 Private Education Loan allowance for losses 1,542 629 2,171 1,231 791 2,022 1,056 911 1,967 Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment 2.8 % 12.3 % 3.7 % 3.6 % 16.8 % 5.0 % 3.6 % 21.4 % 6.0 % Allowance as a percentage of ending total loan balance(1) 4.4 % 15.3 % 5.5 % 3.6 % 18.0 % 5.2 % 3.2 % 19.2 % 5.2 % Allowance as a percentage of ending loans in repayment 5.6 % 23.1 % 7.2 % 4.9 % 28.2 % 7.3 % 4.9 % 31.3 % 8.1 % Allowance coverage of charge offs 2.1 1.9 2.0 1.5 1.7 1.6 1.6 1.5 1.5 Delinquencies as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 8.6 % 26.0 % 10.1 % 8.8 % 27.4 % 10.6 % 9.5 % 31.4 % 12.1 % Delinquencies greater than 90 days as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment 4.0 % 13.6 % 4.9 % 4.2 % 15.0 % 5.3 % 4.6 % 17.5 % 6.1 % Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 4.2 % 6.6 % 4.4 % 4.4 % 6.1 % 4.6 % 5.3 % 7.1 % 5.5 % Loans that entered repayment during the period(2) $ 1,514 $ 110 $ 1,624 $ 2,510 $ 187 $ 2,697 $ 2,966 $ 261 $ 3,227 Percentage of Private Education Loans with a cosigner 65 % 29 % 62 % 63 % 28 % 59 % 61 % 28 % 57 % Average FICO at origination 726 624 717 725 623 715 725 623 713 (1) Ending total loans represents gross Private Education Loans, plus the receivable for partially charged off loans. (2) Includes loans that are required to make a payment for the first time. As part of concluding on the adequacy of the allowance for loan loss, we review key allowance and loan metrics. The most significant of these metrics considered are the allowance coverage of charge offs ratio; the allowance as a percentage of total loans and of loans in repayment; and delinquency and forbearance percentages. 67 Table of Contents Receivable for Partially Charged Off Private Education Loans At the end of each month, for loans that are 212 days past due, we charge off the estimated loss of a defaulted loan balance. Actual recoveries are applied against the remaining loan balance that was not charged off. We refer to this remaining loan balance as the receivable for partially charged off loans. If actual periodic recoveries are less than expected, the difference is immediately charged off through the allowance for loan losses with an offsetting reduction in the receivable for partially charged off Private Education Loans. If actual periodic recoveries are greater than expected, they will be reflected as a recovery through the allowance for Private Education Loan losses once the cumulative recovery amount exceeds the cumulative amount originally expected to be recovered. There was $143 million in provision for Private Education Loan losses recorded in 2011 to reflect possible additional future charge offs related to the receivable for partially charged off Private Education Loans (see Consumer Lending Segment Private Education Loans Provision for Loan Losses and Charge Offs for a further discussion). The following table summarizes the activity in the receivable for partially charged off loans. Activity in Receivable for Partially Charged Off Loans GAAP Basis Off Balance Sheet Core Earnings Basis Years EndedDecember 31, Years EndedDecember 31, Years EndedDecember 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010(4) 2009 2011 2010 2009 Receivable at beginning of period $ 1,040 $ 499 $ 222 $ $ 229 $ 92 $ 1,040 $ 728 $ 314 Expected future recoveries of current period defaults(1) 391 459 324 156 391 459 480 Recoveries(2) (155 ) (104 ) (43 ) (17 ) (155 ) (104 ) (60 ) Charge offs(3) (35 ) (43 ) (4 ) (2 ) (35 ) (43 ) (6 ) Consolidation of securitization trusts(4) 229 (229 ) Receivable at end of period $ 1,241 $ 1,040 $ 499 $ $ $ 229 $ 1,241 $ 1,040 $ 728 (1) Remaining loan balance expected to be collected from contractual loan balances partially charged off during the period. This is the difference between the defaulted loan balance and the amount of the defaulted loan balance that was charged off. (2) Current period cash collections. (3) Represents the current period recovery shortfall the difference between what was expected to be collected and what was actually collected. (4) Upon the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, we consolidated all of our off balance sheet securitization trusts. Use of Forbearance as a Private Education Loan Collection Tool Forbearance involves granting the borrower a temporary cessation of payments (or temporary acceptance of smaller than scheduled payments) for a specified period of time. Using forbearance extends the original term of the loan. Forbearance does not grant any reduction in the total repayment obligation (principal or interest). While in forbearance status, interest continues to accrue and is capitalized to principal when the loan re enters repayment status. Our forbearance policies include limits on the number of forbearance months granted consecutively and the total number of forbearance months granted over the life of the loan. In some instances, we require good faith payments before granting forbearance. Exceptions to forbearance policies are permitted when such exceptions are judged to increase the likelihood of collection of the loan. Forbearance as a collection tool is used most effectively when applied based on a borrowers unique situation, including historical information and judgments. We leverage updated borrower information and other decision support tools to best determine who will be granted forbearance based on our expectations as to a borrowers ability and willingness to repay their obligation. This strategy is aimed at mitigating the overall risk of the portfolio as well as encouraging cash resolution of delinquent loans. Forbearance may be granted to borrowers who are exiting their grace period to provide additional time to obtain employment and income to support their obligations, or to current borrowers who are faced with a 68 Table of Contents hardship and request forbearance time to provide temporary payment relief. In these circumstances, a borrowers loan is placed into a forbearance status in limited monthly increments and is reflected in the forbearance status at month end during this time. At the end of their granted forbearance period, the borrower will enter repayment status as current and is expected to begin making their scheduled monthly payments on a go forward basis. Forbearance may also be granted to borrowers who are delinquent in their payments. In these circumstances, the forbearance cures the delinquency and the borrower is returned to a current repayment status. In more limited instances, delinquent borrowers will also be granted additional forbearance time. The table below reflects the historical effectiveness of using forbearance. Our experience has shown that three years after being granted forbearance for the first time, 66 percent of the loans are current, paid in full, or receiving an in school grace or deferment, and 20 percent have defaulted. The default experience associated with loans which utilize forbearance is considered in our allowance for loan losses. The monthly average number of loans granted forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance remained steady at 5.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to the year ago quarter. As of December 31, 2011, 2.6 percent of loans in current status were delinquent as of the end of the prior month, but were granted a forbearance that made them current as of December 31, 2011 (borrowers made payments on approximately 22 percent of these loans immediately prior to being granted forbearance). Tracking by First Time in Forbearance Compared to All Loans Entering Repayment Status distribution36 months afterbeing grantedforbearancefor the first time Status distribution36 months afterentering repayment(all loans) Status distribution36 months afterentering repayment forloans never enteringforbearance In school/grace/deferment 9.7 % 9.0 % 5.2 % Current 49.5 58.0 65.8 Delinquent 31 60 days 3.1 2.0 0.4 Delinquent 61 90 days 1.9 1.1 0.2 Delinquent greater than 90 days 4.8 2.7 0.3 Forbearance 4.3 3.3 Defaulted 19.7 10.8 6.0 Paid 7.0 13.1 22.1 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % The tables below show the composition and status of the Core Earnings basis Private Education Loan portfolio aged by number of months in active repayment status (months for which a scheduled monthly payment was due). As indicated in the tables, the percentage of loans in forbearance status decreases the longer the loans have been in active repayment status. At December 31, 2011, loans in forbearance status as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance were 6.9 percent for loans that have been in active repayment status for less than 25 months. The percentage drops to 1.3 percent for loans that have been in active repayment status for more than 48 months. Approximately 80 percent of our Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans in forbearance status has been in active repayment status less than 25 months. 69 Table of Contents (Dollars in millions) Monthly Scheduled Payments Due Not Yet inRepayment December 31, 2011 0 to 12 13 to 24 25 to 36 37 to 48 More than 48 Total Loans in school/grace/deferment $ $ $ $ $ $ 6,522 $ 6,522 Loans in forbearance 920 194 126 66 80 1,386 Loans in repayment current 6,866 6,014 5,110 3,486 5,646 27,122 Loans in repayment delinquent 31 60 days 506 212 158 83 117 1,076 Loans in repayment delinquent 61 90 days 245 100 78 41 56 520 Loans in repayment delinquent greater than 90 days 709 317 205 102 134 1,467 Total $ 9,246 $ 6,837 $ 5,677 $ 3,778 $ 6,033 $ 6,522 38,093 Unamortized discount (873 ) Receivable for partially charged off loans 1,241 Allowance for loan losses (2,171 ) Total Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans, net $ 36,290 Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 10.0 % 2.8 % 2.2 % 1.8 % 1.3 % % 4.4 % (Dollars in millions) Monthly Scheduled Payments Due Not Yet inRepayment December 31, 2010 0 to 12 13 to 24 25 to 36 37 to 48 More than 48 Total Loans in school/grace/deferment $ $ $ $ $ $ 8,340 $ 8,340 Loans in forbearance 980 167 92 47 54 1,340 Loans in repayment current 8,342 5,855 4,037 2,679 3,975 24,888 Loans in repayment delinquent 31 60 days 537 209 117 63 85 1,011 Loans in repayment delinquent 61 90 days 258 92 55 27 39 471 Loans in repayment delinquent greater than 90 days 815 336 156 75 100 1,482 Total $ 10,932 $ 6,659 $ 4,457 $ 2,891 $ 4,253 $ 8,340 37,532 Unamortized discount (894 ) Receivable for partially charged off loans 1,040 Allowance for loan losses (2,022 ) Total Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans, net $ 35,656 Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 9.0 % 2.5 % 2.1 % 1.6 % 1.3 % % 4.6 % (Dollars in millions) Monthly Scheduled Payments Due Not Yet inRepayment December 31, 2009 0 to 12 13 to 24 25 to 36 37 to 48 More than 48 Total Loans in school/grace/deferment $ $ $ $ $ $ 11,456 $ 11,456 Loans in forbearance 1,144 139 69 31 37 1,420 Loans in repayment current 8,817 4,730 3,119 1,878 2,864 21,408 Loans in repayment delinquent 31 60 days 642 159 79 40 59 979 Loans in repayment delinquent 61 90 days 316 81 41 23 30 491 Loans in repayment delinquent greater than 90 days 999 251 110 53 75 1,488 Total $ 11,918 $ 5,360 $ 3,418 $ 2,025 $ 3,065 $ 11,456 37,242 Unamortized discount (908 ) Receivable for partially charged off loans 728 Allowance for loan losses (1,967 ) Total Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans, net $ 35,095 Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 9.6 % 2.6 % 2.0 % 1.6 % 1.2 % % 5.5 % 70 Table of Contents The table below stratifies the portfolio of Core Earnings basis Private Education Loans in forbearance by the cumulative number of months the borrower has used forbearance as of the dates indicated. As detailed in the table below, 4 percent of loans currently in forbearance have cumulative forbearance of more than 24 months. December 31,2011 December 31,2010 December 31,2009 (Dollars in millions) ForbearanceBalance % ofTotal ForbearanceBalance % ofTotal ForbearanceBalance % ofTotal Cumulative number of months borrower has used forbearance Up to 12 months $ 887 64 % $ 958 71 % $ 1,050 74 % 13 to 24 months 446 32 343 26 332 23 More than 24 months 53 4 39 3 38 3 Total $ 1,386 100 % $ 1,340 100 % $ 1,420 100 % Private Education Loan Repayment Options Certain loan programs allow borrowers to select from a variety of repayment options depending on their loan type and their enrollment/loan status, which include the ability to extend their repayment term or change their monthly payment. The chart below provides the optional repayment offerings in addition to the standard level principal and interest payments as of December 31, 2011. Loan Program (Dollars in millions) Signature andOther Smart Option CareerTraining Total $ in Repayment $ 24,212 $ 4,196 $ 1,777 $ 30,185 $ in Total 31,484 4,765 1,844 38,093 Payment method by enrollment status: In school/Grace Deferred (1) Deferred(1), Interest only or fixed $25/month $ Interest only or fixed 25/month Repayment Level principal andinterest or graduated Level principal and interest Level principal andinterest (1) Deferred includes loans for which no payments are required and interest charges are capitalized into the loan balance. The graduated repayment program that is part of Signature and Other Loans includes an interest only payment feature that may be selected at the option of the borrower. Borrowers elect to participate in this program at the time they enter repayment following their grace period. This program is available to borrowers in repayment, after their grace period, who would like a temporary lower payment from the required principal and interest payment amount. Borrowers participating in this program pay monthly interest with no amortization of their principal balance for up to 48 payments after entering repayment (dependent on the loan product type). The maturity date of the loan is not extended when a borrower participates in this program. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, borrowers in repayment owing approximately $7.2 billion (24 percent of loans in repayment) and $7.5 billion (27 percent of loans in repayment), respectively, were enrolled in the interest only program. Of these amounts, 11 percent and 12 percent were non traditional loans as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 71 Table of Contents FFELP Loan Portfolio Performance FFELP Loan Delinquencies and Forbearance The tables below present our FFELP Loan delinquency trends GAAP BasisFFELP Loan Delinquencies December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 22,887 $ 28,214 $ 35,079 Loans in forbearance(2) 19,575 22,028 14,121 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 77,093 81.9 % 80,026 82.8 % 57,528 82.4 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 5,419 5.8 5,500 5.7 4,250 6.1 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 3,438 3.7 3,178 3.3 2,205 3.1 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 8,231 8.6 7,992 8.2 5,844 8.4 Total FFELP Loans in repayment 94,181 100 % 96,696 100 % 69,827 100 % Total FFELP Loans, gross 136,643 146,938 119,027 FFELP Loan unamortized premium 1,674 1,900 2,187 Total FFELP Loans 138,317 148,838 121,214 FFELP Loan allowance for losses (187 ) (189 ) (161 ) FFELP Loans, net $ 138,130 $ 148,649 $ 121,053 Percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 68.9 % 65.8 % 58.7 % Delinquencies as a percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 18.1 % 17.2 % 17.6 % FFELP Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 17.2 % 18.6 % 16.8 % (1) Loans for borrowers who may still be attending school or engaging in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation, as well as loans for borrowers who have requested and qualify for other permitted program deferments such as military, unemployment, or economic hardship. (2) Loans for borrowers who have used their allowable deferment time or do not qualify for deferment, that need additional time to obtain employment or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. 72 Table of Contents Off Balance SheetFFELP LoanDelinquencies(4) December 31,2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 3,312 Loans in forbearance(2) 2,726 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 11,304 82.5 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 804 5.9 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 439 3.2 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 1,160 8.4 Total FFELP Loans in repayment 13,707 100 % Total FFELP Loans, gross 19,745 FFELP Loan unamortized premium 577 Total FFELP Loans 20,322 FFELP Loan allowance for losses (25 ) FFELP Loans, net $ 20,297 Percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 69.4 % Delinquencies as a percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 17.5 % FFELP Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 16.6 % Core Earnings BasisFFELP Loan Delinquencies December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance % Loans in school/grace/deferment(1) $ 22,887 $ 28,214 $ 38,391 Loans in forbearance(2) 19,575 22,028 16,847 Loans in repayment and percentage of each status: Loans current 77,093 81.9 % 80,026 82.8 % 68,832 82.4 % Loans delinquent 31 60 days(3) 5,419 5.8 5,500 5.7 5,054 6.0 Loans delinquent 61 90 days(3) 3,438 3.7 3,178 3.3 2,644 3.2 Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 8,231 8.6 7,992 8.2 7,004 8.4 Total FFELP Loans in repayment 94,181 100 % 96,696 100 % 83,534 100 % Total FFELP Loans, gross 136,643 146,938 138,772 FFELP Loan unamortized premium 1,674 1,900 2,764 Total FFELP Loans 138,317 148,838 141,536 FFELP Loan allowance for losses (187 ) (189 ) (186 ) FFELP Loans, net $ 138,130 $ 148,649 $ 141,350 Percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 68.9 % 65.8 % 60.2 % Delinquencies as a percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 18.1 % 17.2 % 17.6 % FFELP Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 17.2 % 18.6 % 16.8 % (1) Loans for borrowers who may still be attending school or engaging in other permitted educational activities and are not yet required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation, as well as loans for borrowers who have requested and qualify for other permitted program deferments such as military, unemployment, or economic hardship. (2) Loans for borrowers who have used their allowable deferment time or do not qualify for deferment, that need additional time to obtain employment or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors. (3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due. (4) On January 1, 2010, upon the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance, all off balance sheet loans are included in GAAP basis. 73 Table of Contents Allowance for FFELP Loan Losses The following table summarizes changes in the allowance for FFELP Loan losses. Activity in Allowance for FFELP Loans GAAP BasisYears Ended December 31, Off Balance SheetYears Ended December 31, Core Earnings BasisYears Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010(1) 2009 2011 2010 2009 Allowance at beginning of period $ 189 $ 161 $ 138 $ $ 25 $ 27 $ 189 $ 186 $ 165 Provision for FFELP Loan losses 86 98 106 13 86 98 119 Charge offs (78 ) (87 ) (79 ) (15 ) (78 ) (87 ) (94 ) Student loan sales and securitization activity (10 ) (8 ) (4 ) (10 ) (8 ) (4 ) Consolidation of securitization trusts(1) 25 (25 ) Allowance at end of period $ 187 $ 189 $ 161 $ $ $ 25 $ 187 $ 189 $ 186 Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment .08 % .11 % .11 % % % .10 % .08 % .11 % .11 % Charge offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment and forbearance .07 % .09 % .10 % % % .09 % .07 % .09 % .09 % Allowance as a percentage of the ending total loans, gross .14 % .13 % .14 % % % .13 % .14 % .13 % .13 % Allowance as a percentage of ending loans in repayment .20 % .20 % .23 % % % .18 % .20 % .20 % .22 % Allowance coverage of charge offs 2.4 2.2 2.0 1.7 2.4 2.2 2.0 Ending total loans, gross $ 136,643 $ 146,938 $ 119,027 $ $ $ 19,745 $ 136,643 $ 146,938 $ 138,772 Average loans in repayment $ 94,359 $ 82,255 $ 69,020 $ $ $ 14,293 $ 94,359 $ 82,255 $ 83,313 Ending loans in repayment $ 94,181 $ 96,696 $ 69,827 $ $ $ 13,707 $ 94,181 $ 96,696 $ 83,534 (1) Upon the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, we consolidated all of our off balance sheet securitization trusts. 74 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Funding and Liquidity Risk Management The following Liquidity and Capital Resources discussion concentrates on our Consumer Lending and FFELP Loans segments. Our Business Services and Other segments require minimal capital. We define liquidity risk as the potential inability to meet our contractual and contingent financial obligations as they come due, as well as the potential inability to fund Private Education Loan originations. Our primary liquidity objective is to ensure our ongoing ability to meet our funding needs for our businesses throughout market cycles, including during periods of financial stress. Our two primary liquidity needs are funding the originations of Private Education Loans and retiring unsecured debt upon maturity. To achieve that objective we analyze and monitor our liquidity needs, maintain excess liquidity and access diverse funding sources including the issuance of unsecured debt, the issuance of secured debt primarily through asset backed securitizations and or other financing facilities and through deposits at Sallie Mae Bank (the Bank), our Utah industrial bank subsidiary. We define liquidity as cash and high quality liquid securities that we can use to meet our funding requirements as they arise. Our primary liquidity risk relates to our ability to fund new originations and raise replacement funding at a reasonable cost as our unsecured debt matures. In addition, we must continue to obtain funding at reasonable rates to meet our other business obligations and to continue to grow our business. Key risks associated with our liquidity relate to our ability to access the capital markets and access them at reasonable rates. This ability may be affected by our credit ratings, as well as the overall availability of funding sources in the marketplace. In addition, credit ratings may be important to customers or counterparties when we compete in certain markets and when we seek to engage in certain transactions, including over the counter derivatives. Credit ratings and outlooks are opinions subject to ongoing review by the ratings agencies and may change from time to time based on our financial performance, industry dynamics and other factors. Other factors that influence our credit ratings include the ratings agencies assessment of the general operating environment, our relative positions in the markets in which we compete, reputation, liquidity position, the level and volatility of earnings, corporate governance and risk management policies, capital position and capital management practices. A negative change in our credit rating could have a negative effect on our liquidity because it would raise the cost and availability of funding and potentially require additional cash collateral or restrict cash currently held as collateral on existing borrowings or derivative collateral arrangements. It is our objective to improve our credit ratings so that we can continue to efficiently access the capital markets even in difficult economic and market conditions. Recent market volatility has elevated the potential cost of capital markets issuance. Regardless, we continue to expect to fund our ongoing liquidity needs, including the origination of new Private Education Loans and the repayment of $1.8 billion of senior unsecured notes to mature in 2012, primarily through our current cash and investment position and the collection of additional bank deposits, the very predictable operating cash flows provided by earnings and repayment of principal on unencumbered student loan assets and distributions from our securitization trusts (including servicing fees which are priority payments within the trusts). We may also draw down on FFELP ABCP Facilities and the facility with the Federal Home Loan Bank in Des Moines (the FHLB DM Facility); and we may also issue term ABS and unsecured debt. Currently, new Private Education Loan originations are initially funded through deposits and subsequently securitized to term on a programmatic basis. We have $1.5 billion of cash at the Bank as of December 31, 2011 available to fund future originations. We no longer originate FFELP Loans and therefore no longer have liquidity requirements for new FFELP Loan originations. The acquisition of loan portfolios may require additional funding. Additionally, it is our intent to refinance, primarily through securitizations, the FFELP Loans that are currently in the ED Conduit Program by its January 2014 maturity date. We currently have $21.4 billion of collateral in the ED Conduit Program. While the assets in 75 Table of Contents this facility can be put to ED at the conclusion of the program thus eliminating a call on our liquidity, we intend to refinance these assets in the term ABS market prior to the facilitys expiration. In addition, capacity is maintained in our FFELP ABCP Facility and our FHLB DM Facility to finance a portion of this collateral should term financing not be achieved or available. Sources of Liquidity and Available Capacity The following tables detail our main sources of primary liquidity and our main sources of secondary liquidity (unused secured credit facilities contingent upon obtaining eligible collateral). (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 Sources of primary liquidity: Unrestricted cash and liquid investments: Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,794 $ 4,342 Investments 71 85 Total unrestricted cash and liquid investments(1) $ 2,865 $ 4,427 Unencumbered FFELP Loans $ 994 $ 1,441 Sources of secondary liquidity contingent on obtaining eligible collateral: Unused secured credit facilities: FFELP ABCP Facilities and FHLB DM Facility(2) $ 11,312 $ 12,601 (1) At December 31, 2011 and 2010, ending balances include $1.5 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, of cash and liquid investments at the Bank. This cash will be used primarily to originate or acquire student loans at the Bank. Our ability to pay dividends from the Bank is subject to capital and liquidity requirements applicable to the Bank. (2) Current borrowing capacity under the FFELP ABCP Facilities and FHLB DM Facility is determined based on qualifying collateral from the unencumbered FFELP Loans reported in primary liquidity above. Additional borrowing capacity would primarily be used to fund FFELP Loan portfolio acquisitions and to refinance FFELP Loans used as collateral in the ED Conduit Program Facility. The total amount we can borrow is contingent upon obtaining eligible collateral. If we use our unencumbered FFELP Loans as collateral to borrow against these facilities, the remaining amount we could borrow is reduced accordingly. Average Balances Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Sources of primary liquidity: Unrestricted cash and liquid investments: Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,623 $ 6,078 $ 5,713 Investments 95 94 145 Total unrestricted cash and liquid investments(1) $ 3,718 $ 6,172 $ 5,858 Unused bank lines of credit $ $ 2,069 $ 4,014 Unencumbered FFELP Loans $ 1,399 $ 1,897 $ 3,507 Sources of secondary liquidity contingent on obtaining eligible collateral: Unused secured credit facilities: FFELP ABCP Facilities and FHLB DM Facility(2) $ 11,356 $ 12,947 $ 1,802 (1) For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, average balances include $1.2 billion, $2.3 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, of cash and liquid investments at the Bank. This cash will be used primarily to originate or acquire student loans at the Bank. Our ability to pay dividends from the Bank is subject to capital and liquidity requirements applicable to the Bank. (2) Current borrowing capacity under the FFELP ABCP Facilities and FHLB DM Facility is determined based on qualifying collateral from the unencumbered FFELP Loans reported in primary liquidity above. Additional borrowing capacity would primarily be used to fund FFELP Loan portfolio acquisitions and to refinance FFELP Loans used as collateral in the ED Conduit Program Facility. The total amount we can borrow is contingent upon obtaining eligible collateral. If we use our unencumbered FFELP Loans as collateral to borrow against these facilities, the remaining amount we could borrow is reduced accordingly. 76 Table of Contents In addition to the assets listed in the table above, we hold a number of other unencumbered assets, consisting primarily of Private Education Loans and other assets. At December 31, 2011, we had a total of $20.2 billion of unencumbered assets (which includes the assets that comprise our primary liquidity and are available to serve as collateral for our secondary liquidity), excluding goodwill and acquired intangibles. Total unencumbered student loans, net, comprised $12.0 billion of our unencumbered assets of which $11.0 billion and $1.0 billion related to Private Education Loans, net, and FFELP Loans, net, respectively. For further discussion of our various sources of liquidity, such as the ED Conduit Program, the Sallie Mae Bank, our continued access to the ABS market, our asset backed financing facilities, the lending agreement we entered into with the FHLB DM and our issuance of unsecured debt, see Note 6 Borrowings to our consolidated financial statements. The following table reconciles encumbered and unencumbered assets and their net impact on total tangible equity. (Dollars in billions) December 31,2011 December 31,2010 Net assets of consolidated variable interest entities (encumbered assets) $ 12.9 $ 13.1 Tangible unencumbered assets(1) 20.2 22.3 Unsecured debt (24.1 ) (26.9 ) Mark to market on unsecured hedged debt(2) (1.9 ) (1.4 ) Other liabilities, net (2.3 ) (2.6 ) Total tangible equity $ 4.8 $ 4.5 (1) Excludes goodwill and acquired intangible assets. (2) At December 31, 2011 and 2010, there were $1.6 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively, of net gains on derivatives hedging this debt in unencumbered assets, which partially offset these losses. 2011 Transactions During 2011, we issued a $2.0 billion senior unsecured bond. Additionally, we issued a total of $2.4 billion in FFELP ABS and $2.1 billion in Private Education Loan ABS. We expect to be a programmatic issuer of ABS throughout 2012. In the fourth quarter 2011, we closed on a $3.4 billion Private Education Loan asset backed commercial paper facility that matures in January 2014. This facility was used to finance the call of Private Education Loan asset backed securities in the fourth quarter 2011 and in early 2012 at a significant discount to the bonds par amount. This resulted in a reduced cost of funds compared to that of the called bonds. In 2011 we repurchased $894 million face amount of our senior unsecured notes in the aggregate, with maturity dates ranging from 2011 to 2014, which resulted in a realized Core Earnings gain of $64 million. On June 17, 2011, September 16, 2011, and December 16, 2011, we paid a quarterly dividend of $.10 per share on our common stock, the first dividends paid since early 2007. In April 2011, we authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of outstanding common stock in open market transactions and terminated all previous authorizations. During the second and third quarters of 2011, we repurchased 19.1 million shares for an aggregate purchase price of $300 million. With this action, we fully utilized this share repurchase authorization. 2012 Transactions The following financing transactions have taken place in 2012: On January 13, 2012, the FFELP ABCP Facility was amended to increase the amount available to $7.5 billion, reflecting an increase of $2.5 billion over the previously scheduled facility reduction. In addition, 77 Table of Contents the amendment extends the final maturity date by one year to January 9, 2015 and increases the amount available at future step down dates. On January 19, 2012, we issued $765 million of FFELP ABS. On January 27, 2012, we issued a two part $1.5 billion senior unsecured bond. $750 million has a five year term, the remaining $750 million has a ten year term. On February 9, 2012, we issued $547 million of Private Education Loan ABS. In addition, on January 26, 2012, we increased our quarterly dividend on our common stock to $0.125 per share. The next such quarterly dividend will be paid on March 16, 2012. We also authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of outstanding common stock. Counterparty Exposure Counterparty exposure related to financial instruments arises from the risk that a lending, investment or derivative counterparty will not be able to meet its obligations to us. Risks associated with our lending portfolio are discussed in Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition FFELP Loan Portfolio Performance and Consumer Lending Portfolio Performance. Our investment portfolio is composed of very short term securities issued by a diversified group of highly rated issuers limiting our counterparty exposure. Additionally, our investing activity is governed by Board approved limits on the amount that is allowed to be invested with any one issuer based on the credit rating of the issuer, further minimizing our counterparty exposure. Counterparty credit risk is considered when valuing investments and considering impairment. Related to derivative transactions, protection against counterparty risk is generally provided by International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) Credit Support Annexes (CSAs). CSAs require a counterparty to post collateral if a potential default would expose the other party to a loss. All derivative contracts entered into by SLM Corporation and the Bank are covered under such agreements and require collateral to be exchanged based on the net fair value of derivatives with each counterparty. Our securitization trusts require collateral in all cases if the counterpartys credit rating is withdrawn or downgraded below a certain level. Additionally, securitizations involving foreign currency notes issued after November 2005 also require the counterparty to post collateral to the trust based on the fair value of the derivative, regardless of credit rating. The trusts are not required to post collateral to the counterparties. In all cases, our exposure is limited to the value of the derivative contracts in a gain position net of any collateral we are holding. We consider counterparties credit risk when determining the fair value of derivative positions on our exposure net of collateral. We have liquidity exposure related to collateral movements between us and our derivative counterparties. Movements in the value of the derivatives, which are primarily affected by changes in interest rate and foreign exchange rates, may require us to return cash collateral held or may require us to access primary liquidity to post collateral to counterparties. If our credit ratings are downgraded from current levels, we may be required to segregate additional unrestricted cash collateral into restricted accounts. 78 Table of Contents The table below highlights exposure related to our derivative counterparties at December 31, 2011. (Dollars in millions) SLM Corporationand Sallie Mae BankContracts Securitization TrustContracts(1) Exposure, net of collateral $ 113 $ 807 Percent of exposure to counterparties with credit ratings below S&P AA or Moodys Aa3 98 % 32 % Percent of exposure to counterparties with credit ratings below S&P A or Moodys A3 0 % 0 % (1) Current turmoil in the European markets has led to increased disclosure of exposure to those markets. Of the total net exposure, $691 million is related to financial institutions located in France; of this amount, $498 million carries a guarantee from the French government. $690 million of the $691 million exposure relates to derivatives held at our securitization trusts. Counterparties to these derivatives are required to post collateral when their credit rating is withdrawn or downgraded below a certain level. As of December 31, 2011, no collateral was required to be posted. Adjustments are made to our derivative valuations for counterparty credit risk. The adjustments made at December 31, 2011 related to derivatives with French financial institutions (including those that carry a guarantee from the French government) decreased the derivative asset value by $179 million. Credit risks for all derivative counterparties are assessed internally on a continual basis. Core Earnings Basis Borrowings The following tables present the ending balances of our Core Earnings basis borrowings at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, and average balances and average interest rates of our Core Earnings basis borrowings for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. The average interest rates include derivatives that are economically hedging the underlying debt but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. (See Core Earnings Definition and Limitations Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP Reclassification of Realized Gains (Losses) on Derivative and Hedging Activities of this Item 7). Ending Balances December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) ShortTerm LongTerm Total ShortTerm LongTerm Total ShortTerm LongTerm Total Unsecured borrowings: Senior unsecured debt $ 1,801 $ 15,199 $ 17,000 $ 4,361 $ 15,742 $ 20,103 $ 5,185 $ 22,797 $ 27,982 Brokered deposits 1,733 1,956 3,689 1,387 3,160 4,547 842 4,795 5,637 Retail and other deposits 2,123 2,123 1,370 1,370 204 204 Other(1) 1,329 1,329 887 887 1,268 1,268 Total unsecured borrowings 6,986 17,155 24,141 8,005 18,902 26,907 7,499 27,592 35,091 Secured borrowings: FFELP Loans securitizations 107,905 107,905 113,671 113,671 64 103,724 103,788 Private Education Loans securitizations 19,297 19,297 21,409 21,409 20,624 20,624 ED Conduit Program Facility 21,313 21,313 24,484 24,484 14,314 14,314 ED Participation Program Facility 9,006 9,006 FFELP ABCP Facility 4,445 4,445 5,853 5,853 8,801 8,801 Private Education Loans ABCP Facility 1,992 1,992 Acquisition financing(2) 916 916 1,064 1,064 FHLB DM Facility 1,210 1,210 900 900 Total secured borrowings 22,523 134,555 157,078 25,384 141,997 167,381 23,384 133,149 156,533 Total $ 29,509 $ 151,710 $ 181,219 $ 33,389 $ 160,899 $ 194,288 $ 30,883 $ 160,741 $ 191,624 (1) Other primarily consists of the obligation to return cash collateral held related to derivative exposure. (2) Relates to the acquisition of $25 billion of student loans at the end of 2010. 79 Table of Contents Secured borrowings comprised 87 percent of our Core Earnings basis debt outstanding at December 31, 2011 versus 86 percent at December 31, 2010. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) AverageBalance AverageRate AverageBalance AverageRate AverageBalance AverageRate Unsecured borrowings: Senior unsecured debt $ 19,562 2.34 % $ 24,480 1.70 % $ 31,863 1.77 % Brokered deposits 3,660 2.35 5,123 2.65 4,754 3.50 Retail and other deposits 1,684 1.11 644 1.16 128 .59 Other(1) 1,187 .17 1,159 .19 1,263 .28 Total unsecured borrowings 26,093 2.16 31,406 1.79 38,008 1.94 Secured borrowings: FFELP Loans securitizations 110,474 .93 100,967 .87 105,069 1.15 Private Education Loans securitizations 20,976 2.17 21,367 2.13 17,731 1.83 ED Conduit Program Facility 22,869 .75 15,096 .70 7,340 .75 ED Participation Program Facility 13,537 .81 14,174 1.43 FFELP ABCP Facility 4,989 1.05 6,623 1.24 15,401 2.79 Private Education Loans ABCP Facility 272 2.08 838 5.56 Acquisition financing(2) 998 4.81 3 5.28 FHLB DM Facility 893 .25 403 .35 Total secured borrowings 161,471 1.09 157,996 1.03 160,553 1.41 Total $ 187,564 1.24 % $ 189,402 1.16 % $ 198,561 1.51 % (1) Other primarily consists of the obligation to return cash collateral held related to derivative exposure. (2) Relates to the acquisition of $25 billion of student loans at the end of 2010. Contractual Cash Obligations The following table provides a summary of our obligations associated with long term notes at December 31, 2011. For further discussion of these obligations, see Note 6 Borrowings. (Dollars in millions) 1 Yearor Less 2 to 3Years 4 to 5Years Over5 Years Total Long term notes: Senior unsecured debt $ $ 5,354 $ 3,012 $ 6,833 $ 15,199 Unsecured term bank deposits 1,956 1,956 Secured borrowings(1) 12,795 26,933 18,949 75,878 134,555 Total contractual cash obligations(2) $ 12,795 $ 34,243 $ 21,961 $ 82,711 $ 151,710 (1) Includes long term beneficial interests of $127.2 billion of notes issued by consolidated VIEs in conjunction with our securitization transactions and included in long term notes in the consolidated balance sheet. Timing of obligations is estimated based on our current projection of prepayment speeds of the securitized assets. (2) The aggregate principal amount of debt that matures in each period is $12.9 billion, $34.5 billion, $22.1 billion and $83.3 billion, respectively. Specifically excludes derivative market value adjustments of $2.7 billion for long term notes. Interest obligations on notes are predominantly variable in nature, resetting quarterly based on 3 month LIBOR. Unrecognized tax benefits were $40 million and $39 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. For additional information, see Note 15 Income Taxes. 80 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations addresses our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP). Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies includes a summary of the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results may differ from these estimates under varying assumptions or conditions. On a quarterly basis, management evaluates its estimates, particularly those that include the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments and are often about matters that are inherently uncertain. The most significant judgments, estimates and assumptions relate to the following critical accounting policies that are discussed in more detail below. Allowance for Loan Losses In determining the allowance for loan losses, we estimate the principal amount of loans that will default over the next two years (two years being the expected period between a loss event and default) and how much we will recover over time related to the defaulted amount. Our historical experience indicates that, on average, the time between the date that a borrower experiences a default causing event (e.g., the loss trigger event) and the date that we charge off the unrecoverable portion of that loan is two years. Additionally, we estimate an allowance amount sufficient to cover life of loan expected losses for loans classified as a troubled debt restructuring (see further discussion below). In the first quarter of 2011, we implemented a new model to estimate the Private Education Loan default amount. Both the prior model and new model are considered migration models. Our prior allowance model (in place through December 31, 2010) segmented the portfolio into categories of similar risk characteristics of which we consider school type, credit scores, existence of a cosigner, loan status and loan seasoning as the key credit quality indicators. Our new model uses these credit quality indicators, but incorporates a more granular segmentation of seasoning data into the calculation. Another change in the new allowance model relates to the historical period of experience that we use as a starting point for projecting future defaults. Our new model is based upon a seasonal average, adjusted to the most recent three to six months of actual collection experience as the starting point and applies expected macroeconomic changes and collection procedure changes to estimate expected losses caused by loss events incurred as of the balance sheet date. Our previous model primarily used a one year historical default experience period and incorporated the estimated impact of macroeconomic factors and collection procedure changes on a qualitative basis. Our current model places a greater emphasis on the more recent default experience rather than the default experience for older historical periods, as we believe the recent default experience is more indicative of the probable losses incurred in the loan portfolio today. While we incorporated the new model in the first quarter of 2011, the overall process for calculating the appropriate amount of allowance for Private Education Loan loss did not change. Significantly more judgment has been required over the last several years, compared with years prior, in light of the U.S. economy and its effect on our customers ability to pay their obligations. We believe that the current model more accurately reflects recent borrower behavior, loan performance, and collection performance, as well as expectations about economic factors. There was no adjustment to our allowance for loan loss upon implementing this new default projection model in the first quarter of 2011. Similar to estimating defaults, we begin with historical borrower payment behavior to estimate the timing and amount of future recoveries on Private Education Loan defaults. We use judgment in determining whether historical performance is representative of what we expect to recover in the future. In contrast to the overall improvements in credit quality, delinquency and charge off trends we saw in 2011, Private Education Loans which defaulted between 2008 and 2011 for which we have previously charged off estimated losses have, to varying degrees, not met our recovery expectations to date and may continue not to do so. (See Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis Consumer Lending Segment Private Education Loans Provision for Loan Losses and Charge offs of this Item 7, for further discussion.) 81 Table of Contents On July 1, 2011, we adopted Accounting Standards Update No. 2011 02, Receivables (Topic 310), A Creditors Determination of Whether a Restructuring Is a Troubled Debt Restructuring. This new guidance clarifies when a loan restructuring constitutes a troubled debt restructuring. In applying the new guidance we have determined that certain Private Education Loans for which we have granted forbearance of greater than three months are classified as troubled debt restructurings. If a loan meets the criteria for troubled debt accounting then an allowance for loan loss is established which represents the present value of the losses that are expected to occur over the remaining life of the loan. This accounting results in a higher allowance for loan losses than our previously established allowance for these loans as our previous allowance for these loans represented an estimate of charge offs expected to occur over the next two years (two years being our loss confirmation period). The new accounting guidance was effective as of July 1, 2011 but was required to be applied retrospectively to January 1, 2011. This resulted in $124 million of additional provision for loan losses in the third quarter of 2011 from approximately $3.8 billion of student loans being classified as troubled debt restructurings. This new accounting guidance is only applied to certain borrowers who use their fourth or greater month of forbearance during the time period this new guidance is effective. This new accounting guidance has the effect of accelerating the recognition of expected losses related to our Private Education Loan portfolio. The increase in the provision for losses as a result of this new accounting guidance does not reflect a decrease in credit expectations of the portfolio or an increase in the expected life of loan losses related to this portfolio. We believe forbearance is an accepted and effective collections and risk management tool for Private Education Loans. We plan to continue to use forbearance and as a result, we expect to have additional loans classified as troubled debt restructurings in the future (see Financial Condition Consumer Lending Portfolio Performance Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses of this Item 7. for a further discussion on the use of forbearance as a collection tool). FFELP Loans are insured as to their principal and accrued interest in the event of default subject to a Risk Sharing level based on the date of loan disbursement. These insurance obligations are supported by contractual rights against the United States. For loans disbursed after October 1, 1993, and before July 1, 2006, we receive 98 percent reimbursement on all qualifying default claims. For loans disbursed on or after July 1, 2006, we receive 97 percent reimbursement. For loans disbursed prior to October 1, 1993, we receive 100 percent reimbursement. The allowance for FFELP Loan losses uses historical experience of borrower default behavior and a two year loss confirmation period to estimate the credit losses incurred in the loan portfolio at the reporting date. We apply the default rate projections, net of applicable Risk Sharing, to each category for the current period to perform our quantitative calculation. Once the quantitative calculation is performed, we review the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses and determine if qualitative adjustments need to be considered. Premium and Discount Amortization The most judgmental estimate for premium and discount amortization on student loans is the Constant Prepayment Rate (CPR), which measures the rate at which loans in the portfolio pay down principal compared to their stated terms. Loan consolidation, default, term extension and other prepayment factors affecting our CPR estimates are affected by changes in our business strategy, changes in our competitors business strategies, FFELP legislative changes, interest rates and changes to the current economic and credit environment. When we determine the CPR we begin with historical prepayment rates due to consolidation activity, defaults, payoffs and term extensions from the utilization of forbearance. We make judgments about which historical period to start with and then make further judgments about whether that historical experience is representative of future expectations and whether additional adjustment may be needed to those historical prepayment rates. In the past the consolidation of FFELP Loans and Private Education Loans significantly affected our CPRs and updating those assumptions often resulted in material adjustments to our amortization expense. As a result of the passage of HCERA, there is no longer the ability to consolidate under the FFELP. In addition, due to the current U.S. economic and credit environment, we, as well as many other industry competitors, have suspended our Private Education Loans consolidation program. As a result, we do not expect to consolidate FFELP Loans 82 Table of Contents in the future and do not currently expect others to actively consolidate our FFELP loans. As a result, we expect CPRs related to our FFELP Loans to remain relatively stable over time. See Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis FFELP Loans Segment of this Item 7, for discussion of the potential impact of a recent Special Direct Consolidation Loan Initiative. We expect that in the future both we and our competitors will begin to consolidate Private Education Loans. This is built into the CPR assumption we use for Private Education Loans. However, it is difficult to accurately project the timing and level at which this consolidation activity will begin and our assumption may need to be updated by a material amount in the future based on changes in the economy and marketplace. The level of defaults is a significant component of our FFELP Loan and Private Education Loan CPR. This component of the FFELP Loan and Private Education Loan CPR is estimated in the same manner as discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Allowance for Loan Loss of this Item 7 the only difference is for premium and discount amortization purposes the estimate of defaults is a life of loan estimate whereas for allowance for loan loss it is a two year estimate. Fair Value Measurement The most significant assumptions used in fair value measurements, including those related to credit and liquidity risk, are as follows: 1. Investments Our investments primarily consist of overnight/weekly maturity instruments with high credit quality counterparties. However, we consider credit and liquidity risk involving specific instruments in determining their fair value and, when appropriate, have adjusted the fair value of these instruments for the effect of credit and liquidity risk. These assumptions have further been validated by the successful maturity of these investments in the period immediately following the end of the reporting period. 2. Derivatives When determining the fair value of derivatives, we take into account counterparty credit risk for positions where we are exposed to the counterparty on a net basis by assessing exposure net of collateral held. The net exposure for each counterparty is adjusted based on market information available for that specific counterparty, including spreads from credit default swaps. Additionally, when the counterparty has exposure to us related to our derivatives, we fully collateralize the exposure, minimizing the adjustment necessary to the derivative valuations for our own credit risk. Trusts that contain derivatives are not required to post collateral to counterparties as the credit quality and securitized nature of the trusts minimizes any adjustments for the counterpartys exposure to the trusts. Adjustments related to credit risk reduced the overall value of our derivatives by $190 million as of December 31, 2011. We also take into account changes in liquidity when determining the fair value of derivative positions. We adjusted the fair value of certain less liquid positions downward by approximately $111 million to take into account a significant reduction in liquidity as of December 31, 2011, related primarily to basis swaps indexed to interest rate indices with inactive markets. A major indicator of market inactivity is the widening of the bid/ask spread in these markets. In general, the widening of counterparty credit spreads and reduced liquidity for derivative instruments as indicated by wider bid/ask spreads will reduce the fair value of derivatives. In addition, certain cross currency interest rate swaps hedging foreign currency denominated reset rate and amortizing notes in our trusts contain extension features that coincide with the remarketing dates of the notes. The valuation of the extension feature requires significant judgment based on internally developed inputs. 3. Student Loans Our FFELP Loans and Private Education Loans are accounted for at cost or at the lower of cost or fair value if the loan is held for sale. The fair values of our student loans are disclosed in Note 13 Fair Value Measurements. For both FFELP Loans and Private Education Loans accounted for at cost, fair value is determined by modeling loan level cash flows using stated terms of the assets and internally developed assumptions to determine aggregate portfolio yield, net present value and average life. The significant assumptions used to project cash flows are prepayment speeds, default rates, cost of funds, the amount funded by debt versus equity, and required return on equity. In addition, the Floor Income component of our FFELP Loan portfolio is valued through discounted cash 83 Table of Contents flow and option models using both observable market inputs and internally developed inputs. Significant inputs into the models are not generally market observable. They are either derived internally through a combination of historical experience and managements qualitative expectation of future performance (in the case of prepayment speeds, default rates, and capital assumptions) or are obtained through external broker quotes (as in the case of cost of funds). When possible, market transactions are used to validate the model. In most cases, these are either infrequent or not observable. For FFELP Loans classified as held for sale and accounted for at the lower of cost or market, the fair value is based on the committed sales price of the various loan purchase programs established by ED. For further information regarding the effect of our use of fair values on our results of operations, see Note 13 Fair Value Measurements. Transfers of Financial Assets and the Variable Interest Entity (VIE) Consolidation Model Changes in Accounting Principles effective January 1, 2010 The new consolidation accounting adopted on January 1, 2010 significantly changed the consolidation model for Variable Interest Entities (VIEs). This new rule, among other things, (1) eliminated the exemption for QSPEs, (2) provided a new approach for determining who should consolidate a VIE that is more focused on control rather than economic interest, (3) changed when it is necessary to reassess who should consolidate a VIE and (4) required additional disclosure. Under these new rules, if we have a variable interest in a VIE and we have determined that we are the primary beneficiary of the VIE then we will consolidate the VIE. We are considered the primary beneficiary if we have both: (1) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIEs economic performance and (2) the obligation to absorb losses or receive benefits of the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE. There is considerable judgment that has to be used as it relates to determining the primary beneficiary of the VIEs with which we are associated. There are no bright line tests. Rather, the assessment of who has the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly affects the VIEs economic performance and who has the obligation to absorb losses or receive benefits of the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE is very qualitative and judgmental in nature. However, based on our current relationship with our securitization trusts and other financing vehicles which are considered VIEs, we believe the assessment is more straightforward. As it relates to our securitized assets, we are the servicer of those securitized assets (which means we have the power to direct the activities of the trust) and we own the Residual Interest (which means we have the loss and gain obligation that could potentially be significant to the VIE) of the securitization trusts. As a result we are the primary beneficiary of our securitization trusts and other financing vehicles. See Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies for further details regarding the adoption of these new rules on January 1, 2010. Derivative Accounting The most significant judgments related to derivative accounting are: (1) concluding the derivative is an effective hedge and qualifies for hedge accounting and (2) determining the fair value of certain derivatives and hedged items. To qualify for hedge accounting a derivative must be concluded to be a highly effective hedge upon designation and on an ongoing basis. There are no bright line tests on what is considered a highly effective hedge. We use a historical regression analysis to prove ongoing and prospective hedge effectiveness. See previous discussion under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Fair Value Measurement of this Item 7 for significant judgments related to the valuation of derivatives. Although some of our valuations are more judgmental than others, we compare the fair values of our derivatives that we calculate to those provided by our counterparties on a monthly basis. We view this as a critical control which helps validate these judgments. Any significant differences with our counterparties are identified and resolved appropriately. 84 Table of Contents Goodwill and Intangible Assets In determining annually (or more frequently if required) whether goodwill is impaired, we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit, which is the same as or one level below a business segment, is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform additional goodwill impairment testing. The more likely than not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. If this more likely than not threshold is met, then we will complete a quantitative goodwill impairment analysis which consists of a comparison of the fair value of the reporting unit to our carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, a goodwill impairment analysis will be performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. If we determine that this event has occurred, we perform an analysis to determine the fair value of the business unit. There are significant judgments involved in determining the fair value of a business unit, including assumptions regarding estimates of future cash flows from existing and new business activities, customer relationships, the value of existing customer contracts, the value of other tangible and intangible assets, as well as assumptions regarding what we believe a third party would be willing to pay for all of the assets and liabilities of the business unit. This calculation requires us to estimate the appropriate discount and growth rates to apply to those projected cash flows and the appropriate control premium to apply to arrive at the final fair value. The business units for which we must estimate the fair value are not publicly traded and often there is not comparable market data available for that individual business to aid in its valuation. We use a third party appraisal firm to provide an opinion on the fair values we conclude upon. Risk Management Our Approach The products, services and markets in which we operate, as well as the various regulatory authorities and regimes to which our businesses, financial condition and lending practices are subject, continue to undergo dramatic change. We recognize that to maintain our reputation with customers and protect the interests of our shareholders and other key constituencies we must continually refresh our understanding of each of our business models, identify and manage the risks related to each of these businesses. Risk management, assessment and oversight responsibilities exist and are documented, reviewed and coordinated at various levels of the Company. Risk Oversight Our Board of Directors and its standing committees oversee our overall strategic direction, including setting our risk management philosophy, tolerance and parameters; and establishing procedures for assessing the risks our businesses face as well as the risk management practices our management team develop and utilize. We escalate to our Board of Directors any significant departures from established tolerances and parameters and review new and emerging risks. In 2011, our Board of Directors invested significant time and effort in continuing to consider and address changes in our risk profile resulting from the end of FFELP in 2010. Particular attention was paid to the strategic redirection of our businesses into consumer lending products and various strategies for expanding our business services opportunities. The format of our strategic business plan, key performance measures and related risk tolerances and parameters and escalation procedures were revised accordingly. Our Board of Directors also directed our Legal, Compliance and Internal Audit groups to work with management and the Board to review and report on the state of existing Board and management risk practices and procedures and to undertake such improvements as the Board of Directors or its committees may direct. The standing committees of our Board of Directors and their current risk oversight portfolios are as follows: Executive Committee has full authority of our Board of Directors to take action when the Board is not in session and includes all board committee chairs, lead outside director, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and 85 Table of Contents Chairman. Key risk functions include working with management to establish and present to our Board of Directors acceptable risk tolerances and parameters for the Company; periodic review and allocation of oversight of particular risks to the committees of the Board for oversight and reporting to the Board of Directors; and advance review with the Audit Committee of all our earnings releases, periodic reports and managements opinions on business outlook and financial guidance. Finance and Operations Committee assists the Board of Directors through its oversight and reporting on capital management, funding/liquidity strategy, acquisitions, and business operation matters. Key risk functions include monitoring our managements performance within agreed risk parameters and tolerances with respect to all aspects of our operational and financial risk profile, including our Private Education Loan programs and new product initiatives; credit, interest rate and currency risks; investment, asset, and liability management policies and contingency funding plan. Audit Committee assists the Board of Directors through its oversight and reporting on the integrity of our financial statements and internal controls processes. Key risk functions include periodically reviewing our financial statements and public disclosures and financial and disclosure policies and underlying assumptions; the qualifications, performance and independence of our independent auditors and Internal Audit group; managements efforts and effectiveness in managing legal and regulatory compliance and litigation risks; the risk assessment, audit plans and conduct of the Internal Audit group; our information security practices and procedures; and compliance with material aspects of the our Code of Business Conduct and related policies regarding independence and transactions with affiliates. Compensation and Personnel Committee assists the Board of Directors through its oversight and reporting matters of executive compensation and personnel. Key risk functions include the approval of compensation, benefits and employment arrangements for our CEO, other senior executive officers and the independent members of the Board; approval of all equity based plans; general oversight of all benefit, compensation and incentive plans applicable to executive management; consideration of the risk management review of compensation practices conducted at least annually by our Chief Credit and Chief Compliance Officers; advising on various human resources matters, including succession planning and talent management. Nominating and Governance Committee assists the Board of Directors through its oversight and reporting of appropriate standards for governance, board operations and qualifications and recommendations of directors. Key risk functions include establishing appropriate standards for corporate governance and guidelines, conducting our Board of Directors annual self assessment survey and taking actions regarding its results as relates to improving the operations of the Board of Directors, the qualifications of its directors and succession planning at the Board of Directors and CEO levels. Strategy Committee This committee engages the CEO and senior management from time to time to develop and prepare for the Board of Directors annual strategic planning process and facilitate the exchange of information and ideas with our management team in their development of proposals to be considered and approved by the Board of Directors regarding our long term strategic agenda and initiatives. The committee has no separate or delegated authority from that of our Board of Directors. Risk Assessment Our Internal Audit Department monitors our various risk management and compliance efforts, identifies areas that may require increased focus and resources, and reports significant control issues and recommendations to executive management and the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. At least annually, Internal Audit performs a risk assessment to identify our top risks and to help develop the annual internal audit plan. Risks are rated on significance and likelihood of occurrence and communicated to our management team members who allocate appropriate attention and resources. The risk assessment focuses on those risks most relevant to us and our subsidiaries (including the Bank). The assessment process includes completion of an anonymous survey by our officers followed by interviews with and reports to senior leadership. 86 Table of Contents Risk Management Our senior executive management team, individually and through participation in or more of our internal risk management committees, are ultimately responsible for the management of risk across our businesses. Each of these committees or their senior executive sponsors have specified periodic reporting and issue escalation obligations to our Board of Directors and their standing committees. Our key internal risk management committees currently include: Disclosure Committee reviews and approves content of periodic SEC reporting documents, earnings releases and related disclosure policies and procedures. Loan Loss Reserve Committee oversees the sufficiency of our loan loss reserves and considers current or emerging issues affecting delinquency and default trends which may result in adjustments in our allowances for loan losses. Critical Accounting Assumptions Committee oversees critical accounting assumptions, as well as key judgments and estimates, utilized in preparation of our financial statements. Asset and Liability Committee oversees our investment portfolio and strategy and our compliance with our investment policy. Corporate Credit Committee oversees the overall credit and portfolio management strategy, policy review and monitoring. Corporate Compliance Committee oversees regulatory compliance risk management activities for Sallie Mae and its affiliates. ICE Steering Committee oversees our Internal Controls Excellence (ICE) initiative and Sarbanes Oxley compliance and sponsors periodic forums in which the top internal control deficiencies are discussed and analyzed to ensure the control deficiencies are identified, understood by all relevant affected parties, and have established resolution plans supported by adequate resources. Customer Products and Services Assessment Committee considers all matters relating to risks affecting us and our wholly and majority owned subsidiaries associated with new, expanded, or modified products or services and makes recommendations regarding proposed products or service offerings based on their inherent risks and controls. Each business segment is primarily responsible and accountable for managing risks specific to its area utilizing formalized processes and procedures that have been developed by each division in collaboration with internal risk management partners to identify, monitor, manage and escalate the risks specific to that business segments activities. Our executive management team and internal risk management partners, including compliance, credit risk, human resources, legal, information technology, finance and accounting, and information security are responsible for providing our business segments with the training, systems and specialized expertise necessary to properly perform their risk management duties. Our Significant Risks Significant risks may be grouped into the following categories: (1) funding and liquidity; (2) operational; (3) political/reputational; (4) market; (5) credit; and (6) legal and compliance. More specific descriptions of the particular risks of each type we currently face are discussed in Item 1A Risk Factors above. Funding and Liquidity Risk Management Funding and liquidity risk involves our potential inability to fund liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, fund asset growth and business operations, and meet contractual obligations at reasonable market 87 Table of Contents rates. Our primary liquidity objective is to ensure our ongoing ability to meet our funding needs for our businesses throughout market cycles, including during periods of financial stress. Our two primary liquidity risks involve our ongoing ability to originate Private Education Loans and retire indebtedness as it matures. Key objectives associated with our funding liquidity needs relate to our ability to access the capital markets at reasonable rates and to continue to maintain retail deposits and funding sources through the Bank. Our funding and liquidity risk management activities are centralized within our Corporate Finance department, which is responsible for planning and executing our funding activities and strategies. We analyze and monitor our liquidity risk, maintain excess liquidity and access diverse funding sources depending on current market conditions. Funding and liquidity risks are overseen and recommendations approved primarily through our internal Asset and Liability Committee. The Finance and Operations Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for periodically reviewing and approving our funding and liquidity positions and contingency funding plan. Our Board of Directors also receives regular reports on our performance against funding and liquidity plans at each meeting. Operational Risk Management Operational risk arises from the potential that inadequate information systems, operational problems, breaches in internal controls, fraud, or unforeseen catastrophes will result in unexpected losses. The cornerstone of our annual operational risk management program involves our Board of Directors approval of our annual strategic business plan and managements recommendations for how to grow our business while focused on managing risks to acceptable parameters. Our Board of Directors receives operations reports (which includes operating metrics and performance against annual plan) from our Chief Executive and Chief Operating Officers at each regularly scheduled meeting. Additionally, the Finance & Operations Committee receives business development updates regarding our various business initiatives that provide information and metrics about each key component of business operations. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors receives periodic information security updates and reviews operational and systems related matters to insure their implementation produce no significant internal control issues. Operational risk exposures are managed through a combination of business line management and enterprise wide oversight. Our Chief Operating Officer (COO) is responsible for all of our business operations (credit, servicing, collections, and technology). Management committees, comprised of senior managers and subject matter experts, focus on particular aspects of operational risk. Enterprise wide oversight is conducted by a number of our internal risk management committees listed above. Most comprehensively, the Customer Products and Services Assessment Committee confirms that in connection with new, expanded, or modified products or services it recommends for approval that all significant risks are properly identified; adequate controls are in place to monitor risks to established, prudent limits; and monitoring of risk management activities, exposures, and issues are performed. Market Risk Management Market risk is the risk to our financial condition resulting from adverse movements in market rates or prices, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads or equity prices. We are exposed to various types of market risk, in particular interest rate risk and other risks that arise through the management of our investment portfolio. Market risk exposures are managed through our internal Asset and Liability Committee. The responsibilities of this committee include: maintaining oversight and responsibility for all risks associated with managing our assets and liabilities, and recommending limits to be included in our risk appetite and investment structure. These activities are closely tied to those related to the management of our funding and liquidity risks. Consequently, the Finance and Operations Committee of the Board of Directors is also responsible for periodically reviewing and approving our investment and asset and liability management policies and contingency funding plan. The Finance and Operations Committee as well as our Chief Financial Officer report to the full Board of Directors on matters of market risk management. 88 Table of Contents Political and Reputation Risk Management Political and reputation risk is the risk that changes in laws and regulations or actions affecting impacting our reputation could affect the profitability and sustainability of our business. Management proactively assesses and manages political and reputation risk. Our government relations team of employees manages our review and response to all formal inquiries from members of Congress, state legislators, and their staff, including providing targeted messaging that reinforces our public policy goals. We review and consider political and reputational risks on an integrated basis in connection with the risk management oversight activities conducted in the various aspects of our business on matters as diverse as the launch of new products and services, our credit underwriting activities and how we fund our operations. Our public relations, marketing and media teams constantly monitor our perception in print, electronic and social media; actively provide assistance and support to our customers and other constituencies and maintain and promote the value of our considerable corporate brand. Significant political and reputation risks are reported to and monitored by the Finance and Operations Committee of our Board of Directors. Our Legal, Government Relations and Compliance groups efforts are coordinated through our General Counsel and regularly meet and collaborate with our Media and Investor Relations teams to provide more coordinated monitoring and management of our political and reputational risks. Credit and Counterparty Risk Management Credit and counterparty risk is the risk of loss stemming from one partys failure to repay a loan or otherwise meet a contractual obligation. We have credit or counterparty risk exposure with borrowers and co borrowers with whom we have made Private Education Loans, the various counterparties with whom we have entered into derivative contracts, the various issuers with whom we make investments, and with several higher education institutions related to academic facilities loans secured by real estate. Credit and counterparty risks are overseen by our Chief Credit Officer, his staff and the internal risk management committee he chairs. Our Chief Credit Officer reports regularly to our Board of Directors, Finance and Operations and Audit Committees with respect to the various matters of which each have oversight. The credit risk related to Private Education Loans are managed within a credit risk infrastructure which includes (i) a well defined underwriting and collection policy framework; (ii) an ongoing monitoring and review process of portfolio segments and trends; (iii) assignment and management of credit authorities and responsibilities; and (iv) establishment of an allowance for loan losses that covers estimated losses based upon portfolio and economic analysis. Credit and counterparty risk related to derivative contracts is managed by reviewing counterparties for credit strength on an ongoing basis and via our credit policies, which place limits on the amount of exposure we may take with any one counterparty and, in most cases, require collateral to secure the position. The credit and counterparty risk associated with derivatives is measured based on the replacement cost should the counterparties with contracts in a gain position to the Company fail to perform under the terms of the contract. Compliance and Legal Risk Management Compliance risk is the operational risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, financial loss or damage to reputation resulting from failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, other regulatory requirements, or codes of conduct and other standards of self regulatory organizations applicable to us. Legal risk arises, in part, from the potential that unenforceable contracts, lawsuits or adverse judgments can disrupt or otherwise negatively affect our operations or condition. These risks are inherent in all of our businesses. Both compliance and legal risk are sub sets of operational risk but are recognized as a separate and complementary risk category given their importance in our business. We can be exposed to regulatory and compliance risk in key areas such as our private education lending, collections or loan servicing businesses if compliance with legal and regulatory requirements is not properly implemented, documented or tested, as well as when an oversight program does not include appropriate audit and control features. 89 Table of Contents The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors has oversight over the establishment of standards related to our monitoring and control of regulatory and compliance risks and the qualification of employees overseeing these risk management functions. The Audit Committee annually approves our Corporate Compliance Plan, has responsibility for considering significant breaches of our Code of Business Conduct and receives regular reports from executive management team members responsible for the regulatory and compliance risk management functions. Primary ownership and responsibility for regulatory and compliance risk is placed with the business segments to manage their specific regulatory and compliance risks. Our Compliance group supports these activities by providing extensive training, monitoring and testing of the processes, policies and procedures utilized by our business segments, maintaining consumer lending regulatory and information security policies and procedures, and working in close coordination with our Legal group. Our Corporate Compliance Committee serves as a regular internal forum where key compliance issues and risks are discussed and business, compliance and legal professional review testing of existing regulatory compliance procedures and approve new or revised procedures. Our Code of Business Conduct and the on going training our employees receive in many compliance areas provide a framework for our employees to conduct themselves with the highest integrity. We instill a risk conscious culture through communications, training, policies and procedures. We have strengthened the linkage between the management performance process and individual compensation to encourage employees to work toward corporate wide compliance goals. Common Stock The following table summarizes our common share repurchases and issuances. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Common stock repurchased 19,054,115 Average purchase price per share $ 15.77 $ $ Shares repurchased related to employee stock based compensation plans(1) 3,024,662 1,097,647 263,640 Average purchase price per share $ 15.71 $ 13.44 $ 20.29 Authority remaining at end of period for repurchases 38,841,923 38,841,923 Common shares issued 3,886,217 1,803,683 536,134 (1) Comprises shares withheld from stock option exercises and vesting of restricted stock for employees tax withholding obligations and shares tendered by employees to satisfy option exercise costs. The closing price of our common stock on December 31, 2011 was $13.40. Our shareholders have authorized the issuance of 1.125 billion shares of common stock (par value of $.20). At December 31, 2011, 509 million shares were issued and outstanding and 34.9 million shares were unissued but encumbered for outstanding stock options for employee compensation and remaining authority for stock based compensation plans. The stock based compensation plans are described in Note 11, Stock Based Compensation Plans and Arrangements. In March 2011, we retired 70 million shares of common stock held in treasury. This retirement decreased the balance in treasury stock by $1.9 billion, with corresponding decreases of $14 million in common stock and $1.9 billion in additional paid in capital. There was no impact to total equity from this transaction. During 2009, we converted $339 million of our Series C Preferred Stock to common stock. As part of this conversion, we delivered to the holders of the preferred stock: (1) approximately 17 million shares (the number 90 Table of Contents of common shares they would most likely receive if the preferred stock they held mandatorily converted to common shares in the fourth quarter of 2010) plus (2) a discounted amount of the preferred stock dividends the holders of the preferred stock would have received if they held the preferred stock through the mandatory conversion date. The accounting treatment for this conversion resulted in additional dividends recorded as part of preferred stock dividends for the year of approximately $53 million. On December 15, 2010, the mandatory conversion date, the remaining 810,370 shares of our Series C Preferred Stock were converted into 41 million shares of common stock. Dividend and Share Repurchase Program On June 17, 2011, September 16, 2011, and December 16, 2011, we paid a quarterly dividend of $.10 per share on our common stock, the first dividends paid since early 2007. In April 2011, we authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of outstanding common stock in open market transactions and terminated all previous authorizations. During the second and third quarters of 2011, we repurchased 19.1 million shares for an aggregate purchase price of $300 million. With this action, we fully utilized this share repurchase authorization. On January 26, 2012, we increased the quarterly dividend on our common stock to $.125 per share. The next such quarterly dividend will be paid on March 16, 2012. We also authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of outstanding common stock in open market transactions. 91 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis Our interest rate risk management seeks to limit the impact of short term movements in interest rates on our results of operations and financial position. The following tables summarize the potential effect on earnings over the next 12 months and the potential effect on fair values of balance sheet assets and liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010, based upon a sensitivity analysis performed by management assuming a hypothetical increase in market interest rates of 100 basis points and 300 basis points while funding spreads remain constant. Additionally, as it relates to the effect on earnings, a sensitivity analysis was performed assuming the funding index increases 25 basis points while holding the asset index constant, if the funding index is different than the asset index. The earnings sensitivity is applied only to financial assets and liabilities, including hedging instruments, that existed at the balance sheet date and does not take into account new assets, liabilities or hedging instruments that may arise in 2012. As of December 31, 2011Impact on Annual Earnings If: As of December 31, 2010Impact on Annual Earnings If: Interest Rates: FundingSpreads Interest Rates: FundingSpreads (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Increase100 BasisPoints Increase300 BasisPoints Increase25 BasisPoints(1) Increase100 BasisPoints Increase300 BasisPoints Increase25 BasisPoints(1) Effect on Earnings Change in pre tax net income before unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities $ 3 $ 61 $ (419 ) $ (129 ) $ (140 ) $ (368 ) Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities 493 814 (16 ) 131 82 (28 ) Increase in net income before taxes $ 496 $ 875 $ (435 ) $ 2 $ (58 ) $ (396 ) Increase in diluted earnings per common share $ .965 $ 1.702 $ (.846 ) $ .004 $ (0.110 ) $ (.746 ) (1) If an asset is not funded with the same index/frequency reset of the asset then it is assumed the funding index increases 25 basis points while holding the asset index constant. 92 Table of Contents At December 31, 2011 Interest Rates: Change fromIncrease of100 BasisPoints Change fromIncrease of300 BasisPoints (Dollars in millions) Fair Value $ % $ % Effect on Fair Values Assets Total FFELP Loans $ 134,196 $ (665 ) % $ (1,335 ) (1 )% Private Education Loans 33,968 Other earning assets 9,871 (1 ) Other assets 8,943 (639 ) (7 ) (1,420 ) (16 )% Total assets gain/(loss) $ 186,978 $ (1,304 ) (1 )% $ (2,756 ) (1 )% Liabilities Interest bearing liabilities $ 171,152 $ (730 ) % $ (2,002 ) (1 )% Other liabilities 4,128 (617 ) (15 ) (801 ) (19 ) Total liabilities (gain)/loss $ 175,280 $ (1,347 ) (1 )% $ (2,803 ) (2 )% At December 31, 2010 Interest Rates: Change fromIncrease of100 BasisPoints Change fromIncrease of300 BasisPoints (Dollars in millions) Fair Value $ % $ % Effect on Fair Values Assets Total FFELP Loans $ 147,163 $ (649 ) % $ (1,318 ) (1 )% Private Education Loans 30,949 Other earning assets 11,641 (1 ) (2 ) Other assets 9,449 (565 ) (6 ) (996 ) (11 )% Total assets gain/(loss) $ 199,202 $ (1,215 ) (1 )% $ (2,316 ) (1 )% Liabilities Interest bearing liabilities $ 187,959 $ (704 ) % $ (1,938 ) (1 )% Other liabilities 3,136 (217 ) (7 ) 257 8 Total liabilities (gain)/loss $ 191,095 $ (921 ) % $ (1,681 ) (1 )% A primary objective in our funding is to minimize our sensitivity to changing interest rates by generally funding our floating rate student loan portfolio with floating rate debt. However, due to the ability of some FFELP loans to earn Floor Income, we can have a fixed versus floating mismatch in funding if the student loan earns at the fixed borrower rate and the funding remains floating. In addition, we can have a mismatch in the index (including the frequency of reset) of floating rate debt versus floating rate assets. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, certain FFELP Loans were earning Floor Income and we locked in a portion of that Floor Income through the use of Floor Income contracts. The result of these hedging transactions was to convert a portion of the fixed rate nature of student loans to variable rate, and to fix the relative spread between the student loan asset rate and the variable rate liability. In the preceding tables, under the scenario where interest rates increase 100 and 300 basis points, the change in pre tax net income before the unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities is primarily due to the impact of (i) our unhedged loans being in a fixed rate mode due to Floor Income, while being funded with 93 Table of Contents variable debt in low interest rate environments; and (ii) a portion of our variable assets being funded with fixed rate liabilities and equity. Item (i) will generally cause income to decrease when interest rates increase from a low interest rate environment, whereas item (ii) will generally offset this decrease. The variance in the change in pre tax income before unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives when comparing the 2011 analysis versus the 2010 analysis was the result of the SLC acquisition at December 31, 2010. In the 2010 analysis, the assets from the acquisition that earn Floor Income were reflected in the analysis at December 31, 2010, however, the Floor Income Contracts hedging these assets were not entered into until the first half of 2011. Therefore the 2010 analysis reflects a large decrease in this line from the loss of the unhedged Floor Income as rates were increased. In the 2011 analysis, this Floor Income had been hedged and the increase in the line resulted from a portion of our variable assets being funded with fixed rate debt. The large increase in the unrealized gains on derivatives and hedging activities line in the 2011 analysis versus the 2010 analysis, primarily is due to the impact of the additional Floor Income Contracts discussed above. Under the scenario in the tables above labeled Asset and Funding Index Mismatches, the main driver of the decrease in pre tax income before unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities is the result of LIBOR based debt funding commercial paper indexed assets. See Asset and Liability Funding Gap of this Item 7A for a further discussion. Increasing the spread between indices will also impact the unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives and hedging activities as it relates to basis swaps that hedge the mismatch between the asset and funding indices. In addition to interest rate risk addressed in the preceding tables, we are also exposed to risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. Foreign currency exchange risk is primarily the result of foreign currency denominated debt issued by us. When we issue foreign denominated corporate unsecured and securitization debt, our policy is to use cross currency interest rate swaps to swap all foreign currency denominated debt payments (fixed and floating) to U.S. dollar LIBOR using a fixed exchange rate. In the tables above, there would be an immaterial impact on earnings if exchange rates were to decrease or increase, due to the terms of the hedging instrument and hedged items matching. The balance sheet interest bearing liabilities would be affected by a change in exchange rates; however, the change would be materially offset by the cross currency interest rate swaps in other assets or other liabilities. In the current economic environment, volatility in the spread between spot and forward foreign exchange rates has resulted in material mark to market impacts to current period earnings which have not been factored into the above analysis. The earnings impact is noncash, and at maturity of the instruments the cumulative mark to market impact will be zero. Asset and Liability Funding Gap The tables below present our assets and liabilities (funding) arranged by underlying indices as of December 31, 2011. In the following GAAP presentation, the funding gap only includes derivatives that qualify as effective hedges (those derivatives which are reflected in net interest margin, as opposed to those reflected in the gains (losses) on derivatives and hedging activities, net line on the consolidated statements of income). The difference between the asset and the funding is the funding gap for the specified index. This represents our exposure to interest rate risk in the form of basis risk and repricing risk, which is the risk that the different indices may reset at different frequencies or may not move in the same direction or at the same magnitude. Management analyzes interest rate risk and in doing so includes all derivatives that are economically hedging our debt whether they qualify as effective hedges or not (Core Earnings basis). Accordingly, we are also presenting the asset and liability funding gap on a Core Earnings basis in the table that follows the GAAP presentation. 94 Table of Contents GAAP Basis Index (Dollars in billions) Frequency ofVariableResets Assets Funding(2) FundingGap 3 month Commercial paper(1) daily $ 129.6 $ $ 129.6 3 month Treasury bill weekly 7.6 7.6 Prime annual .7 .7 Prime quarterly 4.9 4.9 Prime monthly 21.8 21.8 Prime daily 2.8 (2.8 ) PLUS Index annual .5 .5 3 month LIBOR daily 3 month LIBOR quarterly 120.3 (120.3 ) 1 month LIBOR monthly 9.6 16.9 (7.3 ) CMT/CPI Index monthly/quarterly 1.6 (1.6 ) Non Discrete reset(3) monthly 32.8 (32.8 ) Non Discrete reset(4) daily/weekly 9.8 3.5 6.3 Fixed Rate(5) 8.8 15.4 (6.6 ) Total $ 193.3 $ 193.3 $ (1) See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis FFELP Loans Segment FFELP Loans Net Interest Margin for discussion regarding Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012 and the effect it will have on the FFELP student lender payment index in 2012. (2) Funding includes all derivatives that management considers economic hedges of interest rate risk and reflects how we internally manage our interest rate exposure. (3) Funding consists of auction rate securities, the ABCP Facilities, the ED Conduit Program facility and the FHLB DM facility. (4) Assets include restricted and unrestricted cash equivalents and other overnight type instruments. Funding includes retail and other deposits and the obligation to return cash collateral held related to derivatives exposures. (5) Assets include receivables and other assets (including goodwill and acquired intangibles). Funding includes other liabilities and stockholders equity (excluding series B Preferred Stock). The Funding Gaps in the above table are primarily interest rate mismatches in short term indices between our assets and liabilities. We address this issue typically through the use of basis swaps that typically convert quarterly reset three month LIBOR to other indices that are more correlated to our asset indices. These basis swaps do not qualify as effective hedges and as a result the effect on the funding index is not included in our interest margin and is therefore excluded from the GAAP presentation. 95 Table of Contents Core Earnings Basis Index (Dollars in billions) Frequency ofVariableResets Assets Funding(2) FundingGap 3 month Commercial paper(1) daily $ 129.6 $ $ 129.6 3 month Treasury bill weekly 7.6 1.8 5.8 Prime annual .7 .7 Prime quarterly 4.9 4.9 Prime monthly 21.8 4.5 17.3 Prime daily 2.8 (2.8 ) PLUS Index annual .5 .5 3 month LIBOR daily 20.2 (20.2 ) 3 month LIBOR quarterly 79.0 (79.0 ) 1 month LIBOR monthly 9.6 26.1 (16.5 ) 1 month LIBOR daily 8.0 (8.0 ) Non Discrete reset(3) monthly 32.9 (32.9 ) Non Discrete reset(4) daily/weekly 9.8 3.5 6.3 Fixed Rate(5) 6.1 11.8 (5.7 ) Total $ 190.6 $ 190.6 $ (1) See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis FFELP Loans Segment FFELP Loans Net Interest Margin for discussion regarding Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012 and the effect it will have on the FFELP student lender payment index in 2012. (2) Funding includes all derivatives that management considers economic hedges of interest rate risk and reflects how we internally manage our interest rate exposure. (3) Funding consists of auction rate securities, the ABCP Facilities, the ED Conduit Program facility and the FHLB DM facility. (4) Assets include restricted and unrestricted cash equivalents and other overnight type instruments. Funding includes retail and other deposits and the obligation to return cash collateral held related to derivatives exposures. (5) Assets include receivables and other assets (including goodwill and acquired intangibles). Funding includes other liabilities and stockholders equity (excluding series B Preferred Stock). We use interest rate swaps and other derivatives to achieve our risk management objectives. Our asset liability management strategy is to match assets with debt (in combination with derivatives) that have the same underlying index and reset frequency or when economical, have interest rate characteristics that we believe are highly correlated. For example, a large portion of our daily reset 3 month commercial paper indexed assets are funded with liabilities indexed to LIBOR. The use of funding with index types and reset frequencies that are different from our assets exposes us to interest rate risk in the form of basis and repricing risk. This could result in our cost of funds not moving in the same direction or with the same magnitude as the yield on our assets. While we believe this risk is low, as all of these indices are short term with rate movements that are highly correlated over a long period of time, market disruptions can lead to a temporary divergence between indices resulting in a negative impact to our earnings. 96 Table of Contents Weighted Average Life The following table reflects the weighted average life for our earning assets and liabilities at December 31, 2011. (Averages in Years) Weighted AverageLife Earning assets Student loans 7.6 Other loans 6.3 Cash and investments 0.1 Total earning assets 7.2 Borrowings Short term borrowings 0.3 Long term borrowings 7.0 Total borrowings 5.9 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition FFELP Loan Portfolio Performance and Consumer Lending Portfolio Performance. Our investment portfolio is composed of very short term securities issued by a diversified group of highly rated issuers limiting our counterparty exposure. Additionally, our investing activity is governed by Board approved limits on the amount that is allowed to be invested with any one issuer based on the credit rating of the issuer, further minimizing our counterparty exposure. Counterparty credit risk is considered when valuing investments and considering impairment. Related to derivative transactions, protection against counterparty risk is generally provided by International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) Credit Support Annexes (CSAs). CSAs require a counterparty to post collateral if a potential default would expose the other party to a loss. All derivative contracts entered into by SLM Corporation and the Bank are covered under such agreements and require collateral to be exchanged based on the net fair value of derivatives with each counterparty. Our securitization trusts require collateral in all cases if the counterpartys credit rating is withdrawn or downgraded below a certain level. Additionally, securitizations involving foreign currency notes issued after November 2005 also require the counterparty to post collateral to the trust based on the fair value of the derivative, regardless of credit rating. The trusts are not required to post collateral to the counterparties. In all cases, our exposure is limited to the value of the derivative contracts in a gain position net of any collateral we are holding. We consider counterparties credit risk when determining the fair value of derivative positions on our exposure net of collateral. We have liquidity exposure related to collateral movements between us and our derivative counterparties. Movements in the value of the derivatives, which are primarily affected by changes in interest rate and foreign exchange rates, may require us to return cash collateral held or may require us to access primary liquidity to post collateral to counterparties. If our credit ratings are downgraded from current levels, we may be required to segregate additional unrestricted cash collateral into restricted accounts. 78 Table of Contents The table below highlights exposure related to our derivative counterparties at December 31, 2011. (Dollars in millions) SLM Corporationand Sallie Mae BankContracts Securitization TrustContracts(1) Exposure, net of collateral $ 113 $ 807 Percent of exposure to counterparties with credit ratings below S&P AA or Moodys Aa3 98 % 32 % Percent of exposure to counterparties with credit ratings below S&P A or Moodys A3 0 % 0 % (1) Current turmoil in the European markets has led to increased disclosure of exposure to those markets. Of the total net exposure, $691 million is related to financial institutions located in France; of this amount, $498 million carries a guarantee from the French government. $690 million of the $691 million exposure relates to derivatives held at our securitization trusts. Counterparties to these derivatives are required to post collateral when their credit rating is withdrawn or downgraded below a certain level. As of December 31, 2011, no collateral was required to be posted. Adjustments are made to our derivative valuations for counterparty credit risk. The adjustments made at December 31, 2011 related to derivatives with French financial institutions (including those that carry a guarantee from the French government) decreased the derivative asset value by $179 million. Credit risks for all derivative counterparties are assessed internally on a continual basis. Core Earnings Basis Borrowings The following tables present the ending balances of our Core Earnings basis borrowings at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, and average balances and average interest rates of our Core Earnings basis borrowings for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. The average interest rates include derivatives that are economically hedging the underlying debt but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. (See Core Earnings Definition and Limitations Differences between Core Earnings and GAAP Reclassification of Realized Gains (Losses) on Derivative and Hedging Activities of this Item 7). Ending Balances December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) ShortTerm LongTerm Total ShortTerm LongTerm Total ShortTerm LongTerm Total Unsecured borrowings: Senior unsecured debt $ 1,801 $ 15,199 $ 17,000 $ 4,361 $ 15,742 $ 20,103 $ 5,185 $ 22,797 $ 27,982 Brokered deposits 1,733 1,956 3,689 1,387 3,160 4,547 842 4,795 5,637 Retail and other deposits 2,123 2,123 1,370 1,370 204 204 Other(1) 1,329 1,329 887 887 1,268 1,268 Total unsecured borrowings 6,986 17,155 24,141 8,005 18,902 26,907 7,499 27,592 35,091 Secured borrowings: FFELP Loans securitizations 107,905 107,905 113,671 113,671 64 103,724 103,788 Private Education Loans securitizations 19,297 19,297 21,409 21,409 20,624 20,624 ED Conduit Program Facility 21,313 21,313 24,484 24,484 14,314 14,314 ED Participation Program Facility 9,006 9,006 FFELP ABCP Facility 4,445 4,445 5,853 5,853 8,801 8,801 Private Education Loans ABCP Facility 1,992 1,992 Acquisition financing(2) 916 916 1,064 1,064 FHLB DM Facility 1,210 1,210 900 900 Total secured borrowings 22,523 134,555 157,078 25,384 141,997 167,381 23,384 133,149 156,533 Total $ 29,509 $ 151,710 $ 181,219 $ 33,389 $ 160,899 $ 194,288 $ 30,883 $ 160,741 $ 191,624 (1) Other primarily consists of the obligation to return cash collateral held related to derivative exposure. (2) Relates to the acquisition of $25 billion of student loans at the end of 2010. 79 Table of Contents Secured borrowings comprised 87 percent of our Core Earnings basis debt outstanding at December 31, 2011 versus 86 percent at December 31, 2010. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) AverageBalance AverageRate AverageBalance AverageRate AverageBalance AverageRate Unsecured borrowings: Senior unsecured debt $ 19,562 2.34 % $ 24,480 1.70 % $ 31,863 1.77 % Brokered deposits 3,660 2.35 5,123 2.65 4,754 3.50 Retail and other deposits 1,684 1.11 644 1.16 128 .59 Other(1) 1,187 .17 1,159 .19 1,263 .28 Total unsecured borrowings 26,093 2.16 31,406 1.79 38,008 1.94 Secured borrowings: FFELP Loans securitizations 110,474 .93 100,967 .87 105,069 1.15 Private Education Loans securitizations 20,976 2.17 21,367 2.13 17,731 1.83 ED Conduit Program Facility 22,869 .75 15,096 .70 7,340 .75 ED Participation Program Facility 13,537 .81 14,174 1.43 FFELP ABCP Facility 4,989 1.05 6,623 1.24 15,401 2.79 Private Education Loans ABCP Facility 272 2.08 838 5.56 Acquisition financing(2) 998 4.81 3 5.28 FHLB DM Facility 893 .25 403 .35 Total secured borrowings 161,471 1.09 157,996 1.03 160,553 1.41 Total $ 187,564 1.24 % $ 189,402 1.16 % $ 198,561 1.51 % (1) Other primarily consists of the obligation to return cash collateral held related to derivative exposure. (2) Relates to the acquisition of $25 billion of student loans at the end of 2010. Contractual Cash Obligations The following table provides a summary of our obligations associated with long term notes at December 31, 2011. For further discussion of these obligations, see Note 6 Borrowings. (Dollars in millions) 1 Yearor Less 2 to 3Years 4 to 5Years Over5 Years Total Long term notes: Senior unsecured debt $ $ 5,354 $ 3,012 $ 6,833 $ 15,199 Unsecured term bank deposits 1,956 1,956 Secured borrowings(1) 12,795 26,933 18,949 75,878 134,555 Total contractual cash obligations(2) $ 12,795 $ 34,243 $ 21,961 $ 82,711 $ 151,710 (1) Includes long term beneficial interests of $127.2 billion of notes issued by consolidated VIEs in conjunction with our securitization transactions and included in long term notes in the consolidated balance sheet. Timing of obligations is estimated based on our current projection of prepayment speeds of the securitized assets. (2) The aggregate principal amount of debt that matures in each period is $12.9 billion, $34.5 billion, $22.1 billion and $83.3 billion, respectively. Specifically excludes derivative market value adjustments of $2.7 billion for long term notes. Interest obligations on notes are predominantly variable in nature, resetting quarterly based on 3 month LIBOR. Unrecognized tax benefits were $40 million and $39 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. For additional information, see Note 15 Income Taxes. 80 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations addresses our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP). Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies includes a summary of the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results may differ from these estimates under varying assumptions or conditions. On a quarterly basis, management evaluates its estimates, particularly those that include the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments and are often about matters that are inherently uncertain. The most significant judgments, estimates and assumptions relate to the following critical accounting policies that are discussed in more detail below. Allowance for Loan Losses In determining the allowance for loan losses, we estimate the principal amount of loans that will default over the next two years (two years being the expected period between a loss event and default) and how much we will recover over time related to the defaulted amount. Our historical experience indicates that, on average, the time between the date that a borrower experiences a default causing event (e.g., the loss trigger event) and the date that we charge off the unrecoverable portion of that loan is two years. Additionally, we estimate an allowance amount sufficient to cover life of loan expected losses for loans classified as a troubled debt restructuring (see further discussion below). In the first quarter of 2011, we implemented a new model to estimate the Private Education Loan default amount. Both the prior model and new model are considered migration models. Our prior allowance model (in place through December 31, 2010) segmented the portfolio into categories of similar risk characteristics of which we consider school type, credit scores, existence of a cosigner, loan status and loan seasoning as the key credit quality indicators. Our new model uses these credit quality indicators, but incorporates a more granular segmentation of seasoning data into the calculation. Another change in the new allowance model relates to the historical period of experience that we use as a starting point for projecting future defaults. Our new model is based upon a seasonal average, adjusted to the most recent three to six months of actual collection experience as the starting point and applies expected macroeconomic changes and collection procedure changes to estimate expected losses caused by loss events incurred as of the balance sheet date. Our previous model primarily used a one year historical default experience period and incorporated the estimated impact of macroeconomic factors and collection procedure changes on a qualitative basis. Our current model places a greater emphasis on the more recent default experience rather than the default experience for older historical periods, as we believe the recent default experience is more indicative of the probable losses incurred in the loan portfolio today. While we incorporated the new model in the first quarter of 2011, the overall process for calculating the appropriate amount of allowance for Private Education Loan loss did not change. Significantly more judgment has been required over the last several years, compared with years prior, in light of the U.S. economy and its effect on our customers ability to pay their obligations. We believe that the current model more accurately reflects recent borrower behavior, loan performance, and collection performance, as well as expectations about economic factors. There was no adjustment to our allowance for loan loss upon implementing this new default projection model in the first quarter of 2011. Similar to estimating defaults, we begin with historical borrower payment behavior to estimate the timing and amount of future recoveries on Private Education Loan defaults. We use judgment in determining whether historical performance is representative of what we expect to recover in the future. In contrast to the overall improvements in credit quality, delinquency and charge off trends we saw in 2011, Private Education Loans which defaulted between 2008 and 2011 for which we have previously charged off estimated losses have, to varying degrees, not met our recovery expectations to date and may continue not to do so. (See Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis Consumer Lending Segment Private Education Loans Provision for Loan Losses and Charge offs of this Item 7, for further discussion.) 81 Table of Contents On July 1, 2011, we adopted Accounting Standards Update No. 2011 02, Receivables (Topic 310), A Creditors Determination of Whether a Restructuring Is a Troubled Debt Restructuring. This new guidance clarifies when a loan restructuring constitutes a troubled debt restructuring. In applying the new guidance we have determined that certain Private Education Loans for which we have granted forbearance of greater than three months are classified as troubled debt restructurings. If a loan meets the criteria for troubled debt accounting then an allowance for loan loss is established which represents the present value of the losses that are expected to occur over the remaining life of the loan. This accounting results in a higher allowance for loan losses than our previously established allowance for these loans as our previous allowance for these loans represented an estimate of charge offs expected to occur over the next two years (two years being our loss confirmation period). The new accounting guidance was effective as of July 1, 2011 but was required to be applied retrospectively to January 1, 2011. This resulted in $124 million of additional provision for loan losses in the third quarter of 2011 from approximately $3.8 billion of student loans being classified as troubled debt restructurings. This new accounting guidance is only applied to certain borrowers who use their fourth or greater month of forbearance during the time period this new guidance is effective. This new accounting guidance has the effect of accelerating the recognition of expected losses related to our Private Education Loan portfolio. The increase in the provision for losses as a result of this new accounting guidance does not reflect a decrease in credit expectations of the portfolio or an increase in the expected life of loan losses related to this portfolio. We believe forbearance is an accepted and effective collections and risk management tool for Private Education Loans. We plan to continue to use forbearance and as a result, we expect to have additional loans classified as troubled debt restructurings in the future (see Financial Condition Consumer Lending Portfolio Performance Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses of this Item 7. for a further discussion on the use of forbearance as a collection tool). FFELP Loans are insured as to their principal and accrued interest in the event of default subject to a Risk Sharing level based on the date of loan disbursement. These insurance obligations are supported by contractual rights against the United States. For loans disbursed after October 1, 1993, and before July 1, 2006, we receive 98 percent reimbursement on all qualifying default claims. For loans disbursed on or after July 1, 2006, we receive 97 percent reimbursement. For loans disbursed prior to October 1, 1993, we receive 100 percent reimbursement. The allowance for FFELP Loan losses uses historical experience of borrower default behavior and a two year loss confirmation period to estimate the credit losses incurred in the loan portfolio at the reporting date. We apply the default rate projections, net of applicable Risk Sharing, to each category for the current period to perform our quantitative calculation. Once the quantitative calculation is performed, we review the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses and determine if qualitative adjustments need to be considered. Premium and Discount Amortization The most judgmental estimate for premium and discount amortization on student loans is the Constant Prepayment Rate (CPR), which measures the rate at which loans in the portfolio pay down principal compared to their stated terms. Loan consolidation, default, term extension and other prepayment factors affecting our CPR estimates are affected by changes in our business strategy, changes in our competitors business strategies, FFELP legislative changes, interest rates and changes to the current economic and credit environment. When we determine the CPR we begin with historical prepayment rates due to consolidation activity, defaults, payoffs and term extensions from the utilization of forbearance. We make judgments about which historical period to start with and then make further judgments about whether that historical experience is representative of future expectations and whether additional adjustment may be needed to those historical prepayment rates. In the past the consolidation of FFELP Loans and Private Education Loans significantly affected our CPRs and updating those assumptions often resulted in material adjustments to our amortization expense. As a result of the passage of HCERA, there is no longer the ability to consolidate under the FFELP. In addition, due to the current U.S. economic and credit environment, we, as well as many other industry competitors, have suspended our Private Education Loans consolidation program. As a result, we do not expect to consolidate FFELP Loans 82 Table of Contents in the future and do not currently expect others to actively consolidate our FFELP loans. As a result, we expect CPRs related to our FFELP Loans to remain relatively stable over time. See Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis FFELP Loans Segment of this Item 7, for discussion of the potential impact of a recent Special Direct Consolidation Loan Initiative. We expect that in the future both we and our competitors will begin to consolidate Private Education Loans. This is built into the CPR assumption we use for Private Education Loans. However, it is difficult to accurately project the timing and level at which this consolidation activity will begin and our assumption may need to be updated by a material amount in the future based on changes in the economy and marketplace. The level of defaults is a significant component of our FFELP Loan and Private Education Loan CPR. This component of the FFELP Loan and Private Education Loan CPR is estimated in the same manner as discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Allowance for Loan Loss of this Item 7 the only difference is for premium and discount amortization purposes the estimate of defaults is a life of loan estimate whereas for allowance for loan loss it is a two year estimate. Fair Value Measurement The most significant assumptions used in fair value measurements, including those related to credit and liquidity risk, are as follows: 1. Investments Our investments primarily consist of overnight/weekly maturity instruments with high credit quality counterparties. However, we consider credit and liquidity risk involving specific instruments in determining their fair value and, when appropriate, have adjusted the fair value of these instruments for the effect of credit and liquidity risk. These assumptions have further been validated by the successful maturity of these investments in the period immediately following the end of the reporting period. 2. Derivatives When determining the fair value of derivatives, we take into account counterparty credit risk for positions where we are exposed to the counterparty on a net basis by assessing exposure net of collateral held. The net exposure for each counterparty is adjusted based on market information available for that specific counterparty, including spreads from credit default swaps. Additionally, when the counterparty has exposure to us related to our derivatives, we fully collateralize the exposure, minimizing the adjustment necessary to the derivative valuations for our own credit risk. Trusts that contain derivatives are not required to post collateral to counterparties as the credit quality and securitized nature of the trusts minimizes any adjustments for the counterpartys exposure to the trusts. Adjustments related to credit risk reduced the overall value of our derivatives by $190 million as of December 31, 2011. We also take into account changes in liquidity when determining the fair value of derivative positions. We adjusted the fair value of certain less liquid positions downward by approximately $111 million to take into account a significant reduction in liquidity as of December 31, 2011, related primarily to basis swaps indexed to interest rate indices with inactive markets. A major indicator of market inactivity is the widening of the bid/ask spread in these markets. In general, the widening of counterparty credit spreads and reduced liquidity for derivative instruments as indicated by wider bid/ask spreads will reduce the fair value of derivatives. In addition, certain cross currency interest rate swaps hedging foreign currency denominated reset rate and amortizing notes in our trusts contain extension features that coincide with the remarketing dates of the notes. The valuation of the extension feature requires significant judgment based on internally developed inputs. 3. Student Loans Our FFELP Loans and Private Education Loans are accounted for at cost or at the lower of cost or fair value if the loan is held for sale. The fair values of our student loans are disclosed in Note 13 Fair Value Measurements. For both FFELP Loans and Private Education Loans accounted for at cost, fair value is determined by modeling loan level cash flows using stated terms of the assets and internally developed assumptions to determine aggregate portfolio yield, net present value and average life. The significant assumptions used to project cash flows are prepayment speeds, default rates, cost of funds, the amount funded by debt versus equity, and required return on equity. In addition, the Floor Income component of our FFELP Loan portfolio is valued through discounted cash 83 Table of Contents flow and option models using both observable market inputs and internally developed inputs. Significant inputs into the models are not generally market observable. They are either derived internally through a combination of historical experience and managements qualitative expectation of future performance (in the case of prepayment speeds, default rates, and capital assumptions) or are obtained through external broker quotes (as in the case of cost of funds). When possible, market transactions are used to validate the model. In most cases, these are either infrequent or not observable. For FFELP Loans classified as held for sale and accounted for at the lower of cost or market, the fair value is based on the committed sales price of the various loan purchase programs established by ED. For further information regarding the effect of our use of fair values on our results of operations, see Note 13 Fair Value Measurements. Transfers of Financial Assets and the Variable Interest Entity (VIE) Consolidation Model Changes in Accounting Principles effective January 1, 2010 The new consolidation accounting adopted on January 1, 2010 significantly changed the consolidation model for Variable Interest Entities (VIEs). This new rule, among other things, (1) eliminated the exemption for QSPEs, (2) provided a new approach for determining who should consolidate a VIE that is more focused on control rather than economic interest, (3) changed when it is necessary to reassess who should consolidate a VIE and (4) required additional disclosure. Under these new rules, if we have a variable interest in a VIE and we have determined that we are the primary beneficiary of the VIE then we will consolidate the VIE. We are considered the primary beneficiary if we have both: (1) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIEs economic performance and (2) the obligation to absorb losses or receive benefits of the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE. There is considerable judgment that has to be used as it relates to determining the primary beneficiary of the VIEs with which we are associated. There are no bright line tests. Rather, the assessment of who has the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly affects the VIEs economic performance and who has the obligation to absorb losses or receive benefits of the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE is very qualitative and judgmental in nature. However, based on our current relationship with our securitization trusts and other financing vehicles which are considered VIEs, we believe the assessment is more straightforward. As it relates to our securitized assets, we are the servicer of those securitized assets (which means we have the power to direct the activities of the trust) and we own the Residual Interest (which means we have the loss and gain obligation that could potentially be significant to the VIE) of the securitization trusts. As a result we are the primary beneficiary of our securitization trusts and other financing vehicles. See Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies for further details regarding the adoption of these new rules on January 1, 2010. Derivative Accounting The most significant judgments related to derivative accounting are: (1) concluding the derivative is an effective hedge and qualifies for hedge accounting and (2) determining the fair value of certain derivatives and hedged items. To qualify for hedge accounting a derivative must be concluded to be a highly effective hedge upon designation and on an ongoing basis. There are no bright line tests on what is considered a highly effective hedge. We use a historical regression analysis to prove ongoing and prospective hedge effectiveness. See previous discussion under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Fair Value Measurement of this Item 7 for significant judgments related to the valuation of derivatives. Although some of our valuations are more judgmental than others, we compare the fair values of our derivatives that we calculate to those provided by our counterparties on a monthly basis. We view this as a critical control which helps validate these judgments. Any significant differences with our counterparties are identified and resolved appropriately. 84 Table of Contents Goodwill and Intangible Assets In determining annually (or more frequently if required) whether goodwill is impaired, we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit, which is the same as or one level below a business segment, is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform additional goodwill impairment testing. The more likely than not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. If this more likely than not threshold is met, then we will complete a quantitative goodwill impairment analysis which consists of a comparison of the fair value of the reporting unit to our carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, a goodwill impairment analysis will be performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. If we determine that this event has occurred, we perform an analysis to determine the fair value of the business unit. There are significant judgments involved in determining the fair value of a business unit, including assumptions regarding estimates of future cash flows from existing and new business activities, customer relationships, the value of existing customer contracts, the value of other tangible and intangible assets, as well as assumptions regarding what we believe a third party would be willing to pay for all of the assets and liabilities of the business unit. This calculation requires us to estimate the appropriate discount and growth rates to apply to those projected cash flows and the appropriate control premium to apply to arrive at the final fair value. The business units for which we must estimate the fair value are not publicly traded and often there is not comparable market data available for that individual business to aid in its valuation. We use a third party appraisal firm to provide an opinion on the fair values we conclude upon. Risk Management Our Approach The products, services and markets in which we operate, as well as the various regulatory authorities and regimes to which our businesses, financial condition and lending practices are subject, continue to undergo dramatic change. We recognize that to maintain our reputation with customers and protect the interests of our shareholders and other key constituencies we must continually refresh our understanding of each of our business models, identify and manage the risks related to each of these businesses. Risk management, assessment and oversight responsibilities exist and are documented, reviewed and coordinated at various levels of the Company. Risk Oversight Our Board of Directors and its standing committees oversee our overall strategic direction, including setting our risk management philosophy, tolerance and parameters; and establishing procedures for assessing the risks our businesses face as well as the risk management practices our management team develop and utilize. We escalate to our Board of Directors any significant departures from established tolerances and parameters and review new and emerging risks. In 2011, our Board of Directors invested significant time and effort in continuing to consider and address changes in our risk profile resulting from the end of FFELP in 2010. Particular attention was paid to the strategic redirection of our businesses into consumer lending products and various strategies for expanding our business services opportunities. The format of our strategic business plan, key performance measures and related risk tolerances and parameters and escalation procedures were revised accordingly. Our Board of Directors also directed our Legal, Compliance and Internal Audit groups to work with management and the Board to review and report on the state of existing Board and management risk practices and procedures and to undertake such improvements as the Board of Directors or its committees may direct. The standing committees of our Board of Directors and their current risk oversight portfolios are as follows: Executive Committee has full authority of our Board of Directors to take action when the Board is not in session and includes all board committee chairs, lead outside director, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and 85 Table of Contents Chairman. Key risk functions include working with management to establish and present to our Board of Directors acceptable risk tolerances and parameters for the Company; periodic review and allocation of oversight of particular risks to the committees of the Board for oversight and reporting to the Board of Directors; and advance review with the Audit Committee of all our earnings releases, periodic reports and managements opinions on business outlook and financial guidance. Finance and Operations Committee assists the Board of Directors through its oversight and reporting on capital management, funding/liquidity strategy, acquisitions, and business operation matters. Key risk functions include monitoring our managements performance within agreed risk parameters and tolerances with respect to all aspects of our operational and financial risk profile, including our Private Education Loan programs and new product initiatives; credit, interest rate and currency risks; investment, asset, and liability management policies and contingency funding plan. Audit Committee assists the Board of Directors through its oversight and reporting on the integrity of our financial statements and internal controls processes. Key risk functions include periodically reviewing our financial statements and public disclosures and financial and disclosure policies and underlying assumptions; the qualifications, performance and independence of our independent auditors and Internal Audit group; managements efforts and effectiveness in managing legal and regulatory compliance and litigation risks; the risk assessment, audit plans and conduct of the Internal Audit group; our information security practices and procedures; and compliance with material aspects of the our Code of Business Conduct and related policies regarding independence and transactions with affiliates. Compensation and Personnel Committee assists the Board of Directors through its oversight and reporting matters of executive compensation and personnel. Key risk functions include the approval of compensation, benefits and employment arrangements for our CEO, other senior executive officers and the independent members of the Board; approval of all equity based plans; general oversight of all benefit, compensation and incentive plans applicable to executive management; consideration of the risk management review of compensation practices conducted at least annually by our Chief Credit and Chief Compliance Officers; advising on various human resources matters, including succession planning and talent management. Nominating and Governance Committee assists the Board of Directors through its oversight and reporting of appropriate standards for governance, board operations and qualifications and recommendations of directors. Key risk functions include establishing appropriate standards for corporate governance and guidelines, conducting our Board of Directors annual self assessment survey and taking actions regarding its results as relates to improving the operations of the Board of Directors, the qualifications of its directors and succession planning at the Board of Directors and CEO levels. Strategy Committee This committee engages the CEO and senior management from time to time to develop and prepare for the Board of Directors annual strategic planning process and facilitate the exchange of information and ideas with our management team in their development of proposals to be considered and approved by the Board of Directors regarding our long term strategic agenda and initiatives. The committee has no separate or delegated authority from that of our Board of Directors. Risk Assessment Our Internal Audit Department monitors our various risk management and compliance efforts, identifies areas that may require increased focus and resources, and reports significant control issues and recommendations to executive management and the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. At least annually, Internal Audit performs a risk assessment to identify our top risks and to help develop the annual internal audit plan. Risks are rated on significance and likelihood of occurrence and communicated to our management team members who allocate appropriate attention and resources. The risk assessment focuses on those risks most relevant to us and our subsidiaries (including the Bank). The assessment process includes completion of an anonymous survey by our officers followed by interviews with and reports to senior leadership. 86 Table of Contents Risk Management Our senior executive management team, individually and through participation in or more of our internal risk management committees, are ultimately responsible for the management of risk across our businesses. Each of these committees or their senior executive sponsors have specified periodic reporting and issue escalation obligations to our Board of Directors and their standing committees. Our key internal risk management committees currently include: Disclosure Committee reviews and approves content of periodic SEC reporting documents, earnings releases and related disclosure policies and procedures. Loan Loss Reserve Committee oversees the sufficiency of our loan loss reserves and considers current or emerging issues affecting delinquency and default trends which may result in adjustments in our allowances for loan losses. Critical Accounting Assumptions Committee oversees critical accounting assumptions, as well as key judgments and estimates, utilized in preparation of our financial statements. Asset and Liability Committee oversees our investment portfolio and strategy and our compliance with our investment policy. Corporate Credit Committee oversees the overall credit and portfolio management strategy, policy review and monitoring. Corporate Compliance Committee oversees regulatory compliance risk management activities for Sallie Mae and its affiliates. ICE Steering Committee oversees our Internal Controls Excellence (ICE) initiative and Sarbanes Oxley compliance and sponsors periodic forums in which the top internal control deficiencies are discussed and analyzed to ensure the control deficiencies are identified, understood by all relevant affected parties, and have established resolution plans supported by adequate resources. Customer Products and Services Assessment Committee considers all matters relating to risks affecting us and our wholly and majority owned subsidiaries associated with new, expanded, or modified products or services and makes recommendations regarding proposed products or service offerings based on their inherent risks and controls. Each business segment is primarily responsible and accountable for managing risks specific to its area utilizing formalized processes and procedures that have been developed by each division in collaboration with internal risk management partners to identify, monitor, manage and escalate the risks specific to that business segments activities. Our executive management team and internal risk management partners, including compliance, credit risk, human resources, legal, information technology, finance and accounting, and information security are responsible for providing our business segments with the training, systems and specialized expertise necessary to properly perform their risk management duties. Our Significant Risks Significant risks may be grouped into the following categories: (1) funding and liquidity; (2) operational; (3) political/reputational; (4) market; (5) credit; and (6) legal and compliance. More specific descriptions of the particular risks of each type we currently face are discussed in Item 1A Risk Factors above. Funding and Liquidity Risk Management Funding and liquidity risk involves our potential inability to fund liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, fund asset growth and business operations, and meet contractual obligations at reasonable market 87 Table of Contents rates. Our primary liquidity objective is to ensure our ongoing ability to meet our funding needs for our businesses throughout market cycles, including during periods of financial stress. Our two primary liquidity risks involve our ongoing ability to originate Private Education Loans and retire indebtedness as it matures. Key objectives associated with our funding liquidity needs relate to our ability to access the capital markets at reasonable rates and to continue to maintain retail deposits and funding sources through the Bank. Our funding and liquidity risk management activities are centralized within our Corporate Finance department, which is responsible for planning and executing our funding activities and strategies. We analyze and monitor our liquidity risk, maintain excess liquidity and access diverse funding sources depending on current market conditions. Funding and liquidity risks are overseen and recommendations approved primarily through our internal Asset and Liability Committee. The Finance and Operations Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for periodically reviewing and approving our funding and liquidity positions and contingency funding plan. Our Board of Directors also receives regular reports on our performance against funding and liquidity plans at each meeting. Operational Risk Management Operational risk arises from the potential that inadequate information systems, operational problems, breaches in internal controls, fraud, or unforeseen catastrophes will result in unexpected losses. The cornerstone of our annual operational risk management program involves our Board of Directors approval of our annual strategic business plan and managements recommendations for how to grow our business while focused on managing risks to acceptable parameters. Our Board of Directors receives operations reports (which includes operating metrics and performance against annual plan) from our Chief Executive and Chief Operating Officers at each regularly scheduled meeting. Additionally, the Finance & Operations Committee receives business development updates regarding our various business initiatives that provide information and metrics about each key component of business operations. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors receives periodic information security updates and reviews operational and systems related matters to insure their implementation produce no significant internal control issues. Operational risk exposures are managed through a combination of business line management and enterprise wide oversight. Our Chief Operating Officer (COO) is responsible for all of our business operations (credit, servicing, collections, and technology). Management committees, comprised of senior managers and subject matter experts, focus on particular aspects of operational risk. Enterprise wide oversight is conducted by a number of our internal risk management committees listed above. Most comprehensively, the Customer Products and Services Assessment Committee confirms that in connection with new, expanded, or modified products or services it recommends for approval that all significant risks are properly identified; adequate controls are in place to monitor risks to established, prudent limits; and monitoring of risk management activities, exposures, and issues are performed. Market Risk Management Market risk is the risk to our financial condition resulting from adverse movements in market rates or prices, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads or equity prices. We are exposed to various types of market risk, in particular interest rate risk and other risks that arise through the management of our investment portfolio. Market risk exposures are managed through our internal Asset and Liability Committee. The responsibilities of this committee include: maintaining oversight and responsibility for all risks associated with managing our assets and liabilities, and recommending limits to be included in our risk appetite and investment structure. These activities are closely tied to those related to the management of our funding and liquidity risks. Consequently, the Finance and Operations Committee of the Board of Directors is also responsible for periodically reviewing and approving our investment and asset and liability management policies and contingency funding plan. The Finance and Operations Committee as well as our Chief Financial Officer report to the full Board of Directors on matters of market risk management. 88 Table of Contents Political and Reputation Risk Management Political and reputation risk is the risk that changes in laws and regulations or actions affecting impacting our reputation could affect the profitability and sustainability of our business. Management proactively assesses and manages political and reputation risk. Our government relations team of employees manages our review and response to all formal inquiries from members of Congress, state legislators, and their staff, including providing targeted messaging that reinforces our public policy goals. We review and consider political and reputational risks on an integrated basis in connection with the risk management oversight activities conducted in the various aspects of our business on matters as diverse as the launch of new products and services, our credit underwriting activities and how we fund our operations. Our public relations, marketing and media teams constantly monitor our perception in print, electronic and social media; actively provide assistance and support to our customers and other constituencies and maintain and promote the value of our considerable corporate brand. Significant political and reputation risks are reported to and monitored by the Finance and Operations Committee of our Board of Directors. Our Legal, Government Relations and Compliance groups efforts are coordinated through our General Counsel and regularly meet and collaborate with our Media and Investor Relations teams to provide more coordinated monitoring and management of our political and reputational risks. Credit and Counterparty Risk Management Credit and counterparty risk is the risk of loss stemming from one partys failure to repay a loan or otherwise meet a contractual obligation. We have credit or counterparty risk exposure with borrowers and co borrowers with whom we have made Private Education Loans, the various counterparties with whom we have entered into derivative contracts, the various issuers with whom we make investments, and with several higher education institutions related to academic facilities loans secured by real estate. Credit and counterparty risks are overseen by our Chief Credit Officer, his staff and the internal risk management committee he chairs. Our Chief Credit Officer reports regularly to our Board of Directors, Finance and Operations and Audit Committees with respect to the various matters of which each have oversight. The credit risk related to Private Education Loans are managed within a credit risk infrastructure which includes (i) a well defined underwriting and collection policy framework; (ii) an ongoing monitoring and review process of portfolio segments and trends; (iii) assignment and management of credit authorities and responsibilities; and (iv) establishment of an allowance for loan losses that covers estimated losses based upon portfolio and economic analysis. Credit and counterparty risk related to derivative contracts is managed by reviewing counterparties for credit strength on an ongoing basis and via our credit policies, which place limits on the amount of exposure we may take with any one counterparty and, in most cases, require collateral to secure the position. The credit and counterparty risk associated with derivatives is measured based on the replacement cost should the counterparties with contracts in a gain position to the Company fail to perform under the terms of the contract. Compliance and Legal Risk Management Compliance risk is the operational risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, financial loss or damage to reputation resulting from failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, other regulatory requirements, or codes of conduct and other standards of self regulatory organizations applicable to us. Legal risk arises, in part, from the potential that unenforceable contracts, lawsuits or adverse judgments can disrupt or otherwise negatively affect our operations or condition. These risks are inherent in all of our businesses. Both compliance and legal risk are sub sets of operational risk but are recognized as a separate and complementary risk category given their importance in our business. We can be exposed to regulatory and compliance risk in key areas such as our private education lending, collections or loan servicing businesses if compliance with legal and regulatory requirements is not properly implemented, documented or tested, as well as when an oversight program does not include appropriate audit and control features. 89 Table of Contents The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors has oversight over the establishment of standards related to our monitoring and control of regulatory and compliance risks and the qualification of employees overseeing these risk management functions. The Audit Committee annually approves our Corporate Compliance Plan, has responsibility for considering significant breaches of our Code of Business Conduct and receives regular reports from executive management team members responsible for the regulatory and compliance risk management functions. Primary ownership and responsibility for regulatory and compliance risk is placed with the business segments to manage their specific regulatory and compliance risks. Our Compliance group supports these activities by providing extensive training, monitoring and testing of the processes, policies and procedures utilized by our business segments, maintaining consumer lending regulatory and information security policies and procedures, and working in close coordination with our Legal group. Our Corporate Compliance Committee serves as a regular internal forum where key compliance issues and risks are discussed and business, compliance and legal professional review testing of existing regulatory compliance procedures and approve new or revised procedures. Our Code of Business Conduct and the on going training our employees receive in many compliance areas provide a framework for our employees to conduct themselves with the highest integrity. We instill a risk conscious culture through communications, training, policies and procedures. We have strengthened the linkage between the management performance process and individual compensation to encourage employees to work toward corporate wide compliance goals. Common Stock The following table summarizes our common share repurchases and issuances. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Common stock repurchased 19,054,115 Average purchase price per share $ 15.77 $ $ Shares repurchased related to employee stock based compensation plans(1) 3,024,662 1,097,647 263,640 Average purchase price per share $ 15.71 $ 13.44 $ 20.29 Authority remaining at end of period for repurchases 38,841,923 38,841,923 Common shares issued 3,886,217 1,803,683 536,134 (1) Comprises shares withheld from stock option exercises and vesting of restricted stock for employees tax withholding obligations and shares tendered by employees to satisfy option exercise costs. The closing price of our common stock on December 31, 2011 was $13.40. Our shareholders have authorized the issuance of 1.125 billion shares of common stock (par value of $.20). At December 31, 2011, 509 million shares were issued and outstanding and 34.9 million shares were unissued but encumbered for outstanding stock options for employee compensation and remaining authority for stock based compensation plans. The stock based compensation plans are described in Note 11, Stock Based Compensation Plans and Arrangements. In March 2011, we retired 70 million shares of common stock held in treasury. This retirement decreased the balance in treasury stock by $1.9 billion, with corresponding decreases of $14 million in common stock and $1.9 billion in additional paid in capital. There was no impact to total equity from this transaction. During 2009, we converted $339 million of our Series C Preferred Stock to common stock. As part of this conversion, we delivered to the holders of the preferred stock: (1) approximately 17 million shares (the number 90 Table of Contents of common shares they would most likely receive if the preferred stock they held mandatorily converted to common shares in the fourth quarter of 2010) plus (2) a discounted amount of the preferred stock dividends the holders of the preferred stock would have received if they held the preferred stock through the mandatory conversion date. The accounting treatment for this conversion resulted in additional dividends recorded as part of preferred stock dividends for the year of approximately $53 million. On December 15, 2010, the mandatory conversion date, the remaining 810,370 shares of our Series C Preferred Stock were converted into 41 million shares of common stock. Dividend and Share Repurchase Program On June 17, 2011, September 16, 2011, and December 16, 2011, we paid a quarterly dividend of $.10 per share on our common stock, the first dividends paid since early 2007. In April 2011, we authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of outstanding common stock in open market transactions and terminated all previous authorizations. During the second and third quarters of 2011, we repurchased 19.1 million shares for an aggregate purchase price of $300 million. With this action, we fully utilized this share repurchase authorization. On January 26, 2012, we increased the quarterly dividend on our common stock to $.125 per share. The next such quarterly dividend will be paid on March 16, 2012. We also authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of outstanding common stock in open market transactions. 91 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis Our interest rate risk management seeks to limit the impact of short term movements in interest rates on our results of operations and financial position. The following tables summarize the potential effect on earnings over the next 12 months and the potential effect on fair values of balance sheet assets and liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010, based upon a sensitivity analysis performed by management assuming a hypothetical increase in market interest rates of 100 basis points and 300 basis points while funding spreads remain constant. Additionally, as it relates to the effect on earnings, a sensitivity analysis was performed assuming the funding index increases 25 basis points while holding the asset index constant, if the funding index is different than the asset index. The earnings sensitivity is applied only to financial assets and liabilities, including hedging instruments, that existed at the balance sheet date and does not take into account new assets, liabilities or hedging instruments that may arise in 2012. As of December 31, 2011Impact on Annual Earnings If: As of December 31, 2010Impact on Annual Earnings If: Interest Rates: FundingSpreads Interest Rates: FundingSpreads (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Increase100 BasisPoints Increase300 BasisPoints Increase25 BasisPoints(1) Increase100 BasisPoints Increase300 BasisPoints Increase25 BasisPoints(1) Effect on Earnings Change in pre tax net income before unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities $ 3 $ 61 $ (419 ) $ (129 ) $ (140 ) $ (368 ) Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities 493 814 (16 ) 131 82 (28 ) Increase in net income before taxes $ 496 $ 875 $ (435 ) $ 2 $ (58 ) $ (396 ) Increase in diluted earnings per common share $ .965 $ 1.702 $ (.846 ) $ .004 $ (0.110 ) $ (.746 ) (1) If an asset is not funded with the same index/frequency reset of the asset then it is assumed the funding index increases 25 basis points while holding the asset index constant. 92 Table of Contents At December 31, 2011 Interest Rates: Change fromIncrease of100 BasisPoints Change fromIncrease of300 BasisPoints (Dollars in millions) Fair Value $ % $ % Effect on Fair Values Assets Total FFELP Loans $ 134,196 $ (665 ) % $ (1,335 ) (1 )% Private Education Loans 33,968 Other earning assets 9,871 (1 ) Other assets 8,943 (639 ) (7 ) (1,420 ) (16 )% Total assets gain/(loss) $ 186,978 $ (1,304 ) (1 )% $ (2,756 ) (1 )% Liabilities Interest bearing liabilities $ 171,152 $ (730 ) % $ (2,002 ) (1 )% Other liabilities 4,128 (617 ) (15 ) (801 ) (19 ) Total liabilities (gain)/loss $ 175,280 $ (1,347 ) (1 )% $ (2,803 ) (2 )% At December 31, 2010 Interest Rates: Change fromIncrease of100 BasisPoints Change fromIncrease of300 BasisPoints (Dollars in millions) Fair Value $ % $ % Effect on Fair Values Assets Total FFELP Loans $ 147,163 $ (649 ) % $ (1,318 ) (1 )% Private Education Loans 30,949 Other earning assets 11,641 (1 ) (2 ) Other assets 9,449 (565 ) (6 ) (996 ) (11 )% Total assets gain/(loss) $ 199,202 $ (1,215 ) (1 )% $ (2,316 ) (1 )% Liabilities Interest bearing liabilities $ 187,959 $ (704 ) % $ (1,938 ) (1 )% Other liabilities 3,136 (217 ) (7 ) 257 8 Total liabilities (gain)/loss $ 191,095 $ (921 ) % $ (1,681 ) (1 )% A primary objective in our funding is to minimize our sensitivity to changing interest rates by generally funding our floating rate student loan portfolio with floating rate debt. However, due to the ability of some FFELP loans to earn Floor Income, we can have a fixed versus floating mismatch in funding if the student loan earns at the fixed borrower rate and the funding remains floating. In addition, we can have a mismatch in the index (including the frequency of reset) of floating rate debt versus floating rate assets. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, certain FFELP Loans were earning Floor Income and we locked in a portion of that Floor Income through the use of Floor Income contracts. The result of these hedging transactions was to convert a portion of the fixed rate nature of student loans to variable rate, and to fix the relative spread between the student loan asset rate and the variable rate liability. In the preceding tables, under the scenario where interest rates increase 100 and 300 basis points, the change in pre tax net income before the unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities is primarily due to the impact of (i) our unhedged loans being in a fixed rate mode due to Floor Income, while being funded with 93 Table of Contents variable debt in low interest rate environments; and (ii) a portion of our variable assets being funded with fixed rate liabilities and equity. Item (i) will generally cause income to decrease when interest rates increase from a low interest rate environment, whereas item (ii) will generally offset this decrease. The variance in the change in pre tax income before unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives when comparing the 2011 analysis versus the 2010 analysis was the result of the SLC acquisition at December 31, 2010. In the 2010 analysis, the assets from the acquisition that earn Floor Income were reflected in the analysis at December 31, 2010, however, the Floor Income Contracts hedging these assets were not entered into until the first half of 2011. Therefore the 2010 analysis reflects a large decrease in this line from the loss of the unhedged Floor Income as rates were increased. In the 2011 analysis, this Floor Income had been hedged and the increase in the line resulted from a portion of our variable assets being funded with fixed rate debt. The large increase in the unrealized gains on derivatives and hedging activities line in the 2011 analysis versus the 2010 analysis, primarily is due to the impact of the additional Floor Income Contracts discussed above. Under the scenario in the tables above labeled Asset and Funding Index Mismatches, the main driver of the decrease in pre tax income before unrealized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities is the result of LIBOR based debt funding commercial paper indexed assets. See Asset and Liability Funding Gap of this Item 7A for a further discussion. Increasing the spread between indices will also impact the unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives and hedging activities as it relates to basis swaps that hedge the mismatch between the asset and funding indices. In addition to interest rate risk addressed in the preceding tables, we are also exposed to risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. Foreign currency exchange risk is primarily the result of foreign currency denominated debt issued by us. When we issue foreign denominated corporate unsecured and securitization debt, our policy is to use cross currency interest rate swaps to swap all foreign currency denominated debt payments (fixed and floating) to U.S. dollar LIBOR using a fixed exchange rate. In the tables above, there would be an immaterial impact on earnings if exchange rates were to decrease or increase, due to the terms of the hedging instrument and hedged items matching. The balance sheet interest bearing liabilities would be affected by a change in exchange rates; however, the change would be materially offset by the cross currency interest rate swaps in other assets or other liabilities. In the current economic environment, volatility in the spread between spot and forward foreign exchange rates has resulted in material mark to market impacts to current period earnings which have not been factored into the above analysis. The earnings impact is noncash, and at maturity of the instruments the cumulative mark to market impact will be zero. Asset and Liability Funding Gap The tables below present our assets and liabilities (funding) arranged by underlying indices as of December 31, 2011. In the following GAAP presentation, the funding gap only includes derivatives that qualify as effective hedges (those derivatives which are reflected in net interest margin, as opposed to those reflected in the gains (losses) on derivatives and hedging activities, net line on the consolidated statements of income). The difference between the asset and the funding is the funding gap for the specified index. This represents our exposure to interest rate risk in the form of basis risk and repricing risk, which is the risk that the different indices may reset at different frequencies or may not move in the same direction or at the same magnitude. Management analyzes interest rate risk and in doing so includes all derivatives that are economically hedging our debt whether they qualify as effective hedges or not (Core Earnings basis). Accordingly, we are also presenting the asset and liability funding gap on a Core Earnings basis in the table that follows the GAAP presentation. 94 Table of Contents GAAP Basis Index (Dollars in billions) Frequency ofVariableResets Assets Funding(2) FundingGap 3 month Commercial paper(1) daily $ 129.6 $ $ 129.6 3 month Treasury bill weekly 7.6 7.6 Prime annual .7 .7 Prime quarterly 4.9 4.9 Prime monthly 21.8 21.8 Prime daily 2.8 (2.8 ) PLUS Index annual .5 .5 3 month LIBOR daily 3 month LIBOR quarterly 120.3 (120.3 ) 1 month LIBOR monthly 9.6 16.9 (7.3 ) CMT/CPI Index monthly/quarterly 1.6 (1.6 ) Non Discrete reset(3) monthly 32.8 (32.8 ) Non Discrete reset(4) daily/weekly 9.8 3.5 6.3 Fixed Rate(5) 8.8 15.4 (6.6 ) Total $ 193.3 $ 193.3 $ (1) See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis FFELP Loans Segment FFELP Loans Net Interest Margin for discussion regarding Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012 and the effect it will have on the FFELP student lender payment index in 2012. (2) Funding includes all derivatives that management considers economic hedges of interest rate risk and reflects how we internally manage our interest rate exposure. (3) Funding consists of auction rate securities, the ABCP Facilities, the ED Conduit Program facility and the FHLB DM facility. (4) Assets include restricted and unrestricted cash equivalents and other overnight type instruments. Funding includes retail and other deposits and the obligation to return cash collateral held related to derivatives exposures. (5) Assets include receivables and other assets (including goodwill and acquired intangibles). Funding includes other liabilities and stockholders equity (excluding series B Preferred Stock). The Funding Gaps in the above table are primarily interest rate mismatches in short term indices between our assets and liabilities. We address this issue typically through the use of basis swaps that typically convert quarterly reset three month LIBOR to other indices that are more correlated to our asset indices. These basis swaps do not qualify as effective hedges and as a result the effect on the funding index is not included in our interest margin and is therefore excluded from the GAAP presentation. 95 Table of Contents Core Earnings Basis Index (Dollars in billions) Frequency ofVariableResets Assets Funding(2) FundingGap 3 month Commercial paper(1) daily $ 129.6 $ $ 129.6 3 month Treasury bill weekly 7.6 1.8 5.8 Prime annual .7 .7 Prime quarterly 4.9 4.9 Prime monthly 21.8 4.5 17.3 Prime daily 2.8 (2.8 ) PLUS Index annual .5 .5 3 month LIBOR daily 20.2 (20.2 ) 3 month LIBOR quarterly 79.0 (79.0 ) 1 month LIBOR monthly 9.6 26.1 (16.5 ) 1 month LIBOR daily 8.0 (8.0 ) Non Discrete reset(3) monthly 32.9 (32.9 ) Non Discrete reset(4) daily/weekly 9.8 3.5 6.3 Fixed Rate(5) 6.1 11.8 (5.7 ) Total $ 190.6 $ 190.6 $ (1) See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis FFELP Loans Segment FFELP Loans Net Interest Margin for discussion regarding Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012 and the effect it will have on the FFELP student lender payment index in 2012. (2) Funding includes all derivatives that management considers economic hedges of interest rate risk and reflects how we internally manage our interest rate exposure. (3) Funding consists of auction rate securities, the ABCP Facilities, the ED Conduit Program facility and the FHLB DM facility. (4) Assets include restricted and unrestricted cash equivalents and other overnight type instruments. Funding includes retail and other deposits and the obligation to return cash collateral held related to derivatives exposures. (5) Assets include receivables and other assets (including goodwill and acquired intangibles). Funding includes other liabilities and stockholders equity (excluding series B Preferred Stock). We use interest rate swaps and other derivatives to achieve our risk management objectives. Our asset liability management strategy is to match assets with debt (in combination with derivatives) that have the same underlying index and reset frequency or when economical, have interest rate characteristics that we believe are highly correlated. For example, a large portion of our daily reset 3 month commercial paper indexed assets are funded with liabilities indexed to LIBOR. The use of funding with index types and reset frequencies that are different from our assets exposes us to interest rate risk in the form of basis and repricing risk. This could result in our cost of funds not moving in the same direction or with the same magnitude as the yield on our assets. While we believe this risk is low, as all of these indices are short term with rate movements that are highly correlated over a long period of time, market disruptions can lead to a temporary divergence between indices resulting in a negative impact to our earnings. 96 Table of Contents Weighted Average Life The following table reflects the weighted average life for our earning assets and liabilities at December 31, 2011. (Averages in Years) Weighted AverageLife Earning assets Student loans 7.6 Other loans 6.3 Cash and investments 0.1 Total earning assets 7.2 Borrowings Short term borrowings 0.3 Long term borrowings 7.0 Total borrowings 5.9 
 
