FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20041222200921.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ------------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): December 22, 2004 CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC. (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter) Delaware 001-08495 16-0716709 (State or Other (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Jurisdiction Identification Number) of Incorporation) 370 Woodcliff Drive, Suite 300, Fairport, New York 14450 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (585) 218-3600 Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
ITEM 7.01. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE. On December 22, 2004, Constellation Brands, Inc. issued a press release, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The information in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD. This information is "furnished" and not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein. ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS (c) Exhibits. The following exhibit is filed as part of this report: 99.1 Press Release, dated December 22, 2004, of Constellation Brands, Inc.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Dated: December 22, 2004 CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC. By: /s/ Thomas J. Mullin ------------------------------------ Name: Thomas J. Mullin Title: Executive Vice President and General Counsel
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description - ------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release, dated December 22, 2004, of Constellation Brands, Inc.

Exhibit 99.1 [CONSTELLATION LOGO] NEWS RELEASE FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACTS CONSTELLATION MEDIA RELATIONS: Philippa Dworkin -- 585-218-3733 Mike Martin -- 585-218-3669 CONSTELLATION INVESTOR RELATIONS: Lisa Schnorr -- 585-218-3677 Bob Czudak - 585-218-3668 CONSTELLATION BRANDS COMPLETES ACQUISITION OF THE ROBERT MONDAVI CORPORATION FAIRPORT, N.Y., DEC. 22, 2004 - Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR) today announced that, following receipt of all necessary approvals, it has completed its acquisition of The Robert Mondavi Corporation (NASDAQ: MOND). Mondavi shareholders overwhelmingly approved the combination at today's annual shareholder meeting, with more than 80 percent of the votes cast by the Class A shareholders and 94 percent of the votes cast by the Class B shareholders favoring the adoption of the merger agreement. Mondavi is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Constellation. In connection with the completion of the transaction, Mondavi's Class A common stock will cease trading on NASDAQ at the close of markets today, December 22, 2004. As previously announced, Mondavi's Class A common shareholders will receive $56.50 per share in cash and Mondavi's Class B common shareholders will receive $65.82 per share in cash. "Today opens a new chapter for Constellation and the Robert Mondavi brand," stated Constellation Brands Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard Sands. "With the successful completion of this landmark transaction, Constellation offers an unmatched wine portfolio with expanded fine wine offerings, in addition to our broad portfolio of leading brands in the spirits and imported beer categories and unparalleled global distribution capabilities. "This is a winning combination that preserves and enhances the heritage of both companies and will produce outstanding wines for generations to come," continued Sands. "We welcome Mondavi's dedicated and experienced employees to Constellation as we continue our tradition of industry leadership, and we're eager to expand the Mondavi wine presence around the world." ABOUT CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC. - -------------------------------- Constellation Brands, Inc. is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol brands with a broad portfolio across the wine, spirits and imported beer categories. Constellation Brands is also the largest fine wine company in the United States. Well-known brands in Constellation's beverage alcohol portfolio include: Corona Extra, Pacifico, St. Pauli Girl, Tsingtao, Black Velvet, Fleischmann's, Mr. Boston, Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy, Franciscan Oakville Estate, Estancia, Simi, Ravenswood, Blackstone, Banrock Station, Hardys, Nobilo, Alice White, Vendange, Almaden, Arbor Mist, Stowells and Blackthorn. With the completion of the Mondavi acquisition, additional well-known brands such as Woodbridge, Robert Mondavi Private Selection and the Robert Mondavi Napa, District and Reserve wines are now part of Constellation's portfolio of fine wine offerings. For more information about Constellation Brands and its products, visit the company's Web site at www.cbrands.com. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS - -------------------------- This press release contains certain comments or "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Some of these risks and uncertainties include factors relating to Constellation's ability to integrate Mondavi's business successfully and realize expected synergies, the continued strength of Mondavi's relationships with its employees, suppliers and customers, and the accuracy of the basis for forecasts relating to Mondavi's business. For additional information about risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect Constellation's forward-looking statements, please refer to Constellation's and Mondavi's publicly available reports filed with the SEC, including the most current annual report, 10-K and 10-Q which contain a discussion of additional factors that may affect Constellation's business. These factors could cause actual future performance to differ from current expectations. Constellation does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements. # # #


