FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20050630090925.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneous satisfy filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
o
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a.12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
 
On June 30, 2005, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company), a Delaware corporation, issued a press release (the release) announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the first quarter ended as of May 31, 2005. A copy of the release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The projections constituting the guidance included in the release involve risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at this time and, therefore, actual results may vary materially from these forecasts. In this regard, see the information included in the release under the caption Forward-Looking Statements.
The information in the release and in this Item 2.02 section is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Such information may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references such information.
The release contains non-GAAP financial measures; in the release these are referred to as comparable or pro forma measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Comparable measures are provided because management uses this information in evaluating the results of the continuing operations of the Company and in internal goal setting. In addition, the Company believes this information provides investors a better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance. As such, the flow through of adverse grape cost associated with the acquisition of The Robert Mondavi Corporation (Robert Mondavi); the flow through of inventory step-up associated with acquisitions and investments in equity method investees; financing costs associated with the Companys redemption of senior notes acquisition-related integration costs associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition; restructuring and related charges associated with the Companys further realignment of business operations within the Companys wine segment and the Robert Mondavi acquisition; and the income tax adjustment in connection with the reversal of an income tax accrual related to the completion of various income tax examinations are excluded from comparable results, when appropriate.
and repayment of the Company's prior credit agreement; due diligence costs associated with the Company's evaluation of a potential offer for Allied Domecq; net gain on the sale of non-strategic assets; gain on transaction termination;
Similarly, the Company believes that pro forma information, including Robert Mondavi pro forma net sales information in the year ago period set forth in the release, is provided because management believes this information provides investors a better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.
ITEM 7.01
 
REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
On June 30, 2005, the Company issued a press release (the release), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information included in this Form 8-K, including the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD. This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 9.01
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
[LOGO] 
  
Constellation
NEWS RELEASE
 
- Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR), a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol, today reported net sales at $1.1 billion, up 18 percent over prior year, and reported net income and EPS growth of 47 percent and 45 percent, respectively, for the first quarter ended May 31, 2005.
FAIRPORT, N.Y., June 30, 2005
 
Constellation Brands true growth momentum continues to accelerate and deliver increasing shareholder value as we employ our business model to achieve our strategic vision, stated Richard Sands, Constellation Brands chairman and chief executive officer. We hit our stride in fiscal 2005, and used
 
 
that momentum to set the pace for a strong first quarter of performance to kick off fiscal 2006.
 
Our base business delivered top-line growth of seven percent, which was complemented by our acquisitions for an overall growth rate of 18 percent, explained Sands. Were particularly encouraged by healthy operating margin expansion in the quarter, which reflects the continued consumer shift to higher margin wine products and the benefits of the Robert Mondavi acquisition.
 
Fiscal 2006 First Quarter Results
 
First quarter net sales, as reported under generally accepted accounting principles (reported), totaled $1.1 billion, up 18 percent, driven by growth in the companys branded wine and imported beers businesses. Net sales included $89.6 million of sales of brands from the Dec. 22, 2004 acquisition of The Robert Mondavi Corporation (Robert Mondavi) and $13.4 million from sales of Ruffino brands. On Dec. 3, 2004, the company purchased a 40 percent interest in Ruffino S.r.l. (Ruffino) and on Feb. 1, 2005, the company began distributing Ruffinos products in the United States. Excluding Robert Mondavi and Ruffino brands, net sales grew seven percent. Currency also contributed two percent of the net sales increases.
 
Reported operating income was $139.8 million or 12.8 percent of net sales, compared with $110.4 million or 11.9 percent of net sales in the first quarter of fiscal 2005. Both reported net income of $75.7 million and diluted earnings per share of $0.32 set records for a first quarter, and were up 47 percent and 45 percent, respectively, over the prior year first quarter.
 
First quarter fiscal 2006 and 2005 reported results include acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual items. Net income and diluted earnings per share, on a comparable basis, exclude these costs, charges and items. First quarter operating income on a comparable basis, was $157.7 million or 14.4 percent of net sales, compared with $123.6 million or 13.3 percent in the prior year period. First quarter net income and
diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis, increased 19 percent to $71.2 million and 15 percent to $0.30, respectively.
 
 
Constellation Wines Results
 
For the first quarter fiscal 2006, Constellation wines net sales totaled $750.6 million, up 23 percent driven by the Robert Mondavi acquisition and growth in branded wine, as well as a three percent favorable impact from currency.
 
Branded wine net sales increased 36 percent to reach $495.4 million, driven by the Robert Mondavi and Ruffino brands and eight percent growth in the base business, including a three percent benefit from currency.
 
Net sales of branded wine in the United States increased 54 percent, primarily driven by the addition of Robert Mondavi and Ruffino brands, as well as new product introductions such as Four Emus, Twin Fin, Monkey Bay and Kellys Revenge.
 
 
Constellations New Zealand portfolio is the most popular in the United States and demand for New Zealand sauvignon blanc wine continues to be very strong. New Zealand wines such as Nobilo and Monkey Bay performed exceptionally well in the first quarter. Our pacesetting investment in new world wine exemplifies our understanding of, and real insights into, consumer desires for fruit forward wines of distinction including recently introduced products such as The Jibe, said Sands.
 
Additionally, Blackstone, Alice White, Ravenswood and Hardys continued to show strong marketplace performance in the quarter, as did Cooks sparkling wine and the companys 3-liter Black Box premium product line.
 
Branded wine net sales in Europe grew 13 percent, including a five percent benefit from currency, with strength coming from continuing demand for
the companys portfolio of Australian, New Zealand and California wines.
Branded wine net sales in Australasia were up 16 percent, including seven
percent from currency.
 
With the integration of Robert Mondavi essentially complete, we are now
focused on geographic expansion of brands in that portfolio to make them truly international, explained Sands. We know there is substantial growth potential for Robert Mondavi throughout Europe, and in other key markets around the 
 
 
world, which will be supported through the strength of our distribution capabilities, as well as our knowledge of markets and sales and marketing acumen. Were also leveraging those same capabilities for Ruffino in the United States.
 
Unveiled late in the first quarter for UK consumers, Robert Mondavi Woodbridge created retailer excitement. With new packaging graphics, convenient closures and blends created for regional tastes, the heritage of Robert Mondavi Woodbridge California table wine has been embraced by retailers throughout the UK. Scheduled for introduction during the latter portion of summer and fall months, Robert Mondavi Woodbridge expands the iconic trademark and name synonymous with premium quality. This product line for continental Europe was also showcased at Vinexpo in Paris earlier this month.
 
 
Wholesale and other net sales were up three percent for the quarter, including a four percent benefit from currency.
 
Constellation wines operating income for the first quarter totaled $96.0 million, a 42 percent increase over the first quarter of fiscal 2005. This segments operating margin for the quarter was 12.8 percent compared with 11.1 percent for the prior year, reflecting the benefit of improved sales mix, driven by the addition of the Robert Mondavi portfolio.
 
Constellation Beers and Spirits Results
 
 
Net sales for imported beers and spirits for the first quarter fiscal 2006 reached $346.0 million, a nine percent increase over the prior year period. Imported beer posted a 10 percent increase in net sales for the quarter due to volume gains for the companys Modelo, St. Pauli Girl and Tsingtao products.
 
Our Mexican beer portfolio significantly outperformed both the domestic
and imported beer categories, stated Sands. The portfolio showed strong
growth despite a very competitive domestic beer market during the first quarter, demonstrating the strength of brand positioning with consumers, retailers and distributors.
 
New television advertisements for Corona Extra and Corona Light recently began airing on cable and network stations nationally, which will keep these products top of mind with consumers, reinforce the brands differentiation and
positioning, while maintaining growth momentum.
 
Total spirits net sales for the first quarter increased eight percent. An increase in the companys contract production services more than offset a three percent decrease in branded spirits. Consumer demand for the companys branded spirits products grew 5.6 percent, year-to-date through May 15, based on Information Resources Inc. (IRI) food and drug channel data, compared with prior year results. The first quarter decrease in branded spirits was due primarily to reduced shipments of tequila and timing of new product introductions, including 99 Oranges and Chi-Chis flavors in the first quarter of fiscal 2005. New product introductions continue to focus on expansion of the companys premium spirits business which is a strategic objective.
 
Ridgemont Reserve 1792 is a wonderful example of our new product development in the premium spirits category, explained Sands. This excellent, small batch, eight-year-old, Kentucky bourbon will be available in 40 states by the end of August and we are encouraged by initial consumer acceptance. We are also very optimistic about Effen Vodka, with distribution increasing and strong first quarter sales.
 
The company is also rolling out a new premium single malt scotch (Balblair), in addition to a new premium Canadian whiskey (Danfields).
 
 
Operating income for Constellation beers and spirits totaled $76.0 million for the first quarter, an increase of 12 percent over the prior year. 
This segments operating margin for the quarter was 22.0 percent compared with 21.5 percent for the prior year.
 
Pro Forma Net Sales
 
Pro forma net sales for the quarter, which include $115.6 million of sales from Robert Mondavi for the prior year first quarter, increased five percent, including two percent from currency. Pro forma Constellation wines net sales for the quarter, increased three percent, including three percent from currency. Pro forma branded wine net sales for the quarter increased four percent, including two percent from currency. The prior year first quarter net sales for Robert Mondavi reflect a higher level of promotional activity throughout that period.
 
 
Summary
 
The strength of our portfolio, distribution reach, as well as our marketing and sales capabilities, combined with our strategic vision, consumer insights, new product development and disciplined approach to expanding our offerings, continue to fuel our momentum along the path of true growth, Sands stated.
 
Outlook
 
The table below sets forth managements current diluted earnings per share expectations both on a reported basis and a comparable basis for the second quarter ending Aug. 31, 2005, and fiscal year ending Feb. 28, 2006. This is compared to actual diluted earnings per share both on a reported basis and a comparable basis for the second quarter ended Aug. 31, 2004, and fiscal year ended Feb. 28, 2005.
 
With respect to the table, the reported basis and comparable basis estimates are subject to final purchase accounting adjustments related to the Robert Mondavi acquisition and the investment in Ruffino. The reported basis and comparable basis estimates exclude the impact of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004) (SFAS No. 123(R)) Share-Based Payment, for which the adoption date has been delayed. The company is now required to adopt SFAS No. 123(R) for interim periods beginning March 1, 2006. Reconciliations of reported information to comparable information are included in this media release.
 
 
 
 
 
Common Stock Splits
 
All share and per share amounts in this press release, including within the financial information, reflect the effect of the companys two-for-one stock splits of its Class A and Class B common stock that were distributed in the form of stock dividends on May 13, 2005 to stockholders of record on April 29, 2005.
 
Quarterly Conference Call
 
A conference call to discuss first quarter fiscal 2006 results and outlook will be hosted by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard Sands and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Tom Summer on Thursday, June 30, 2005 at 10:00 a.m. (eastern). The conference call can be accessed by dialing +973-935-8505 beginning 10 minutes prior to the start of the call. A live listen-only web cast of the conference call, together with a copy of this press release (including the attachments) and other financial information that may be
discussed in the call will be available on the Internet at Constellations web site: www.cbrands.com under Investors, prior to the call.
 
 
Annual Shareholders Meeting
 
The Constellation Brands annual shareholders meeting is scheduled to be held on Thursday, July 28, beginning at 11:00 a.m. (eastern), at the Rochester Riverside Convention Center, 123 East Main Street, Rochester, N.Y.
 
Explanations
 
 
Net income and diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis exclude acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual items. Pro forma net sales give effect to the Robert Mondavi acquisition as if the company had owned Robert Mondavi in the same period a year ago. The company
discusses results on a comparable basis and pro forma basis in order to give investors better insight on underlying business trends from continuing operations. Management uses the comparable basis measures in evaluating results from continuing operations.
 
Free cash flow as used by the company means the companys net cash flow from operating activities prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. less capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment. The company discusses free cash flow, which is considered a liquidity measure, to give investors useful information about the amount of cash generated after such capital expenditures, which can then be used, after required debt service and dividend payments, for other general corporate purposes.
 
Tables reconciling the above measures, as well as other related financial measures to reported results are included in this release. For a detailed discussion of these items, please see the section Items Affecting Comparability
following the financial information. The companys measure of segment profitability excludes acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual items, which is consistent with the measure used by management to evaluate results.
 
 
About Constellation
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol brands with a broad portfolio across the wine, spirits and imported beer categories. Well-known brands in Constellations portfolio include: Corona Extra, Corona Light, Pacifico, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, St. Pauli
Girl, Tsingtao, Black Velvet, Fleischmanns, Mr. Boston, Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy, Chi-Chis, 99 Schnapps, Ridgemont Reserve 1792, Effen Vodka, Stowells, Blackthorn, Almaden, Arbor Mist, Vendange, Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Nobilo, Alice White, Ruffino, Robert Mondavi Private Selection, Blackstone, Ravenswood, Estancia, Franciscan Oakville Estate, Simi and Robert Mondavi Winery brands. For additional information about Constellation Brands, as well as its product portfolio, visit the companys Web site at www.cbrands.com.
 
The statements made under the heading Outlook (collectively, the Outlook), as well as all other statements set forth in this press release which are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
During the quarter, Constellation may reiterate the estimates set forth above under the heading Outlook. Prior to the start of the companys quiet period, beginning August 18, 2005, the public can continue to rely on the Outlook as still being Constellations current expectations on the matters covered, unless Constellation publishes a notice stating otherwise.
Beginning August 18, 2005, Constellation will observe a quiet period during which the Outlook no longer constitutes the companys current expectations. During the quiet period, the Outlook should be considered to be historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet period only, and not subject to update by the company.
The companys forward-looking statements are based on managements current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination, divestiture or financing that may be completed after the date of this release. Any projections of future results of operations, and in particular, (i) the companys estimated diluted earnings per share on a reported basis for second quarter 2006 and fiscal 2006, and (ii) the companys estimated diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis for second quarter 2006 and fiscal 2006, should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur. In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the
 
 
 
forward-looking statements of the company contained in this press release are also subject to the following risks and uncertainties: the successful integration of the Robert Mondavi business into that of the company; final management determinations and independent appraisals vary materially from current management estimates of (i) the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the Robert Mondavi acquisition and (ii) the fair value of assets and liabilities of Ruffino; the company achieving certain sales projections and meeting certain cost targets; wholesalers and retailers may give higher priority to products of the companys competitors; raw material supply, production or shipment difficulties could adversely affect the companys ability to supply its customers; increased competitive activities in the form of pricing, advertising and promotions could adversely impact consumer demand for the companys products and/or result in higher than expected selling, general and administrative expenses; a general decline in alcohol consumption; increases in excise and other taxes on beverage alcohol products; and changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. For additional information about risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect the companys forward-looking statements, please refer to the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Feb. 28, 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Restructuring and related charges
- The company expects to record restructuring and related charges, primarily associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition of $0.01 per share for fiscal 2006.
Acquisition-related integration costs
- The company recorded acquisition-related integration costs of $0.02 per share in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. The company estimates acquisition-related integration costs to be $0.01 per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2006 and $0.03 per share for fiscal 2006.
Inventory step-up
- The allocation of purchase price in excess of book value for certain inventory on hand at the date of acquisition is referred to as inventory step-up. Inventory step-up represents an assumed manufacturing profit attributable to the acquired company prior to acquisition. For inventory produced and sold after the acquisition date, the related manufacturers profit accrues to the company. The flow through of inventory step-up related to the Robert Mondavi acquisition had a negative impact of $0.01 per share in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. The impact of the flow through of inventory step-up is expected to be $0.01 per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2006, and $0.04 per share for fiscal 2006.
Adverse grape cost
- In connection with the Robert Mondavi acquisition, the historical cost of certain inventory on hand at the date of acquisition was higher
than the company's ongoing grape cost primarily due to the purchase of grapes by Robert Mondavi prior to the date of acquisition under the terms of their then existing grape contracts. The cost of the grapes purchased under these contracts was in excess of market prices. Therefore, the company's ongoing cost to purchase grapes will be lower than Robert Mondavi's historical cost. The excess of the historical cost of grapes over the company's ongoing cost of grapes
is referred to by the company as the adverse grape cost. The adverse grape cost totaled $0.02 per share for the first quarter of fiscal 2006, and is expected to total $0.02 per share and $0.07 per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2006, respectively.
Income tax adjustment
-
 
During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the company recorded a benefit of $0.07 per share for the reversal of an income tax accrual related to the completion of various income tax examinations.
Allied Domecq due diligence costs
-
 
During the second quarter of fiscal 2006, the company expects to recognize $0.01 per share for professional service fees incurred for due diligence associated with its evaluation of a potential offer for Allied Domecq.
 
 
 
Financing costs
-
 
On Feb. 10, 2004, the company called its $200,000,000 8.5% senior subordinated notes due 2009 which were redeemed March 2004. In connection with this redemption, the company incurred an unusual charge of $0.03 per share in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 related to the call premium and the remaining unamortized financing fees associated with the original issuance of the bonds. On Dec. 22, 2004, the company entered into a new $2.9 billion credit agreement, proceeds of which were used to fund the acquisition of Robert Mondavi, pay certain obligations of Robert Mondavi and to repay the outstanding balance on Constellations prior credit agreement. The company recorded an unusual charge of $0.06 per share in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 for the write-off of bank fees related to the repayment of the companys prior credit agreement. Financing costs charges totaled $0.09 per share in fiscal 2005.
Restructuring and related charges
- In connection with the realignment of business operations within the companys wines segment and the Robert Mondavi acquisition, the company recorded restructuring and related charges of $0.02 per share for fiscal 2005.
Acquisition-related integration costs
- As a result of the Robert Mondavi acquisition, the company recorded acquisition-related integration cost of $0.03 per share for fiscal 2005.
Inventory step-up
- The flow through of inventory step-up for the Hardy and Robert Mondavi acquisitions had a negative impact of $0.02 per share for fiscal 2005.
Adverse grape cost
- The adverse grape cost totaled $0.03 per share for fiscal 2005.
Net gain on sale of non-strategic assets
-
 
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the company realized a gain on the sale of a portion of the Taunton cider property, plant and equipment, partially offset by a loss on the sale of the
investment in the International Wine Investment Fund. The company recorded a net gain of $0.01 per share on these sales.
Gain on transaction termination fee
-
 
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the company recognized a gain of $0.01 per share related to the receipt of a payment associated with the termination of a previously announced potential fine wine joint venture.


