FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20051026171420.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 7.01.   Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On October 26, 2005, a wholly-owned subsidiary (the "Bidder") of Constellation Brands, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Constellation"), filed with Canadian securities regulators, a Notice of Change in Information dated October 26, 2005, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, to its Offer to Purchase and Bid Circular dated October 19, 2005 relating to the offer by the Bidder to purchase all of the outstanding Common Shares (together with the associated Poison Pill Rights) of Vincor International Inc. The Notice of Change in Information will also be sent to shareholders of Vincor International Inc. The Offer to Purchase and Bid Circular has previously been furnished by Constellation as Exhibit 99.1 to its Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 24, 2005.
     This Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit hereto, is being furnished in lieu of a tender offer filing, since Vincor International Inc. does not have a class of equity security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
     The information included in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the exhibit filed herewith is "furnished" and not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section and may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Not applicable
Not applicable
Not applicable
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
This document is important and requires your immediate attention. If you are in doubt as to how to deal with it, you should consult your investment dealer, broker, bank manager, lawyer or other professional advisor.
The Offer has not been approved or disapproved by any securities regulatory authority nor has any securities regulatory authority passed upon the fairness or merits of the Offer or upon the adequacy of the information contained in this document. Any representation to the contrary is unlawful.
October 26, 2005
This Notice of Change in Information amends the information in the Circular as set forth below. Unless the context requires otherwise, capitalized terms used in this Notice of Change in Information have the meanings set forth in 4307003 Canada Inc.'s Offer to Purchase all of the outstanding Common Shares and associated Poison Pill Rights of Vincor International Inc. dated October 19, 2005 and accompanying Circular, provided Offer means the Offer as amended by this Notice of Change in Information.
Description of Changes in Information
1.   Section 5 of the Circular shall be replaced by the following:
          5.    Source of Funds
 
2.   The subsections entitled "" and "" in Section 4 of the Circular, "Acquisition of Common Shares Not Deposited", shall be replaced by the following:
Subsequent Acquisition Transaction
Judicial Developments
 
3.   In addition, the definition of "Going Private Transaction" shall be deleted from the Glossary.
Other Information
The terms and conditions in the Offer continue to be applicable in all respects. The Offer remains open for acceptance until the Expiry Time, being 5:00 p.m. Toronto time, on November 28, 2005, unless the Offer is extended by the Offeror. Common Shares and associated Poison Pill Rights may be deposited with the Depositary at any time prior to the Expiry Time in the manner described in Section 3 of the Offer to Purchase, "Manner of Acceptance".
Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of the Offer, the Offeror will take up the Common Securities validly deposited under the Offer and not withdrawn, not later than 10 days after the Expiry Time and will pay for the Common Securities taken up as soon as possible, but in any event not later than three (3) business days after the taking up of the Common Securities.
Shareholders have the right to withdraw Common Securities deposited pursuant to the Offer and not taken up in the manner described in Section 6 of the Offer to Purchase, "Withdrawal of Deposited Securities".
Offeree's Statutory Rights
Securities legislation in certain of the provinces and territories of Canada provides securityholders of the Company with, in addition to any other rights they may have at law, rights of rescission or damages, or both, if there is a misrepresentation in a circular or notice that is required to be delivered to such securityholders. However, such rights must be exercised within prescribed time limits. Shareholders should refer to the applicable provisions of the securities legislation of their province or territory for the particulars of those rights or consult with a lawyer.
 
The foregoing contains no untrue statement of a material fact and does not omit to state a material fact that is required to be stated or that is necessary to make a statement not misleading in the light of the circumstances in which it was made. In addition, the foregoing does not contain any misrepresentation likely to affect the value or the market price of the Common Shares which are the subject of the Offer.
The foregoing contains no untrue statement of a material fact and does not omit to state a material fact that is required to be stated or that is necessary to make a statement not misleading in the light of the circumstances in which it was made. In addition, the foregoing does not contain any misrepresentation likely to affect the value or the market price of the Common Shares which are the subject of the Offer.


