FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20051118165029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
o
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
(b)  Effective November 17, 2005, George Bresler retired from the Board of Directors of Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) and from membership on the Corporate Governance Committee of Constellations Board of Directors.
   
 
On November 18, 2005 Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) issued a press release announcing George Breslers retirement as a member of Constellations Board of Directors and recognizing his contributions and many years of service. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The information included in Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and the exhibit filed herewith is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section and may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1
[LOGO] 
CONSTELLATION                          
 
 
 
FAIRPORT, N.Y., Nov. 18, 2005 --
Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR) today announced the retirement of George Bresler from its board, for health related reasons, effective Nov. 17, 2005. He joined the companys Board in 1992 and had a law practice in New York City.
George has been a valued member of our board of directors and the Constellation Brands family for many years, said Richards Sands, Constellation Brands chairman and chief executive officer. He has provided the company with excellent counsel and guidance, and he collaborated with fellow board members and Constellation management to maximize the value of the company to shareholders during a period of rapid growth. We are deeply indebted to George. He will be missed, and we wish him well.
Constellation Brands, Inc. is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol brands with a broad portfolio across the wine, spirits and imported beer categories. Well-known brands in Constellations portfolio include: Corona Extra, Corona Light, Pacifico, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, St. Pauli Girl, Tsingtao, Black Velvet, Fleischmanns, Mr. Boston, Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy, Chi-Chis, 99 Schnapps, Ridgemont Reserve 1792, Effen Vodka, Stowells, Blackthorn, Almaden, Arbor Mist, Vendange, Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Nobilo, Alice White, Ruffino, Robert Mondavi Private Selection, Blackstone, Ravenswood, Estancia, Franciscan Oakville Estate, Simi, Robert Mondavi Winery brands and Opus One. For additional information about Constellation Brands, as well as its product portfolio, visit the companys Web site at www.cbrands.com.


