FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20051006163332.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
o
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
 
On October 6, 2005, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company), a Delaware corporation, issued a press release (the release) announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the second fiscal quarter ended as of August 31, 2005. A copy of the release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The projections constituting the guidance included in the release involve risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at this time and, therefore, actual results may vary materially from these forecasts. In this regard, see the information included in the release under the caption Forward-Looking Statements.
The information in the release and in this Item 2.02 section is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Such information may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references such information.
The release contains non-GAAP financial measures; in the release these are referred to as comparable or pro forma measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Comparable measures are provided because management uses this information in evaluating the results of the continuing operations of the Company and in internal goal setting. In addition, the Company believes this information provides investors a better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance. As such, the flow through of adverse grape cost associated with the acquisition of The Robert Mondavi Corporation (Robert Mondavi); the flow through of inventory step-up associated with acquisitions and investments in equity method investees; accelerated depreciation costs in connection with the U.S. West Coast facility rationalization; financing costs associated with the Companys redemption of senior notes and repayment of the Company's prior credit agreement; due diligence costs associated with the Company's evaluation of a potential offer for Allied Domecq; net gain on the sale of non-strategic assets; gain on transaction termination;
acquisition-related integration costs associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition; restructuring and related charges associated with the Companys realignment of business operations within the Companys wine segment, the Robert Mondavi acquisition and the U.S. West Coast facility rationalization; and the income tax adjustment in connection with the reversal of an income tax accrual related to the completion of various income tax examinations are excluded from comparable results.
Similarly, the Company believes that pro forma information, including Robert Mondavi pro forma net sales information in the year ago period set forth in the release, is provided because management believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.
ITEM 7.01
 
REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
On October 6, 2005, the Company issued a press release (the release), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information included in this Form 8-K, including the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD. This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
ITEM 9.01
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.

[LOGO]  CONSTELLATION
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
HIGHLIGHTS
FAIRPORT, N.Y., Oct. 6, 2005
- Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR), a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol, today reported net sales of $1.2 billion for the second quarter of fiscal 2006, up 15 percent over prior year.
Strong performance by our U.S. branded wine and imported beers businesses, together with the addition of Robert Mondavi brands, resulted in another solid quarter of financial performance, stated Richard Sands, Constellation Brands chairman and chief executive officer.
Net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2006 included $110.2 million
from sales of brands from the December 2004 acquisition of The Robert Mondavi Corporation (Robert Mondavi) and $11.8 million from sales of Ruffino brands. In December 2004, the company purchased a 40 percent interest in Ruffino S.r.l. (Ruffino) and on Feb. 1, 2005, the company began distributing Ruffinos products in the United States. Excluding Robert Mondavi and Ruffino brands, net sales grew three percent. While this growth was a little lower than expected, it reflects tougher trading conditions in the U.K. market, impacting both our U.K. wholesale and branded business, stated Sands. We are addressing this by focusing on margin improvements in other areas of our business.
Operating income, as reported under generally accepted accounting principles (reported), totaled $174.2 million, for the second quarter of fiscal 2006, or 14.6 percent of net sales, compared with $156.2 million or 15.1 percent of net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2005. Reported net income for the second quarter increased two percent to $82.4 million, while diluted earnings per share for the second quarter totaled $0.34 compared with $0.35 for the prior year second quarter. Second quarter fiscal 2006 diluted earnings per share were impacted by additional shares outstanding.
Second quarter fiscal 2006 and 2005 reported results include acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual items. Net income and diluted earnings per share, on a comparable basis, exclude these costs, charges and items. Second quarter operating income, on a comparable basis, was $197.0 million or 16.5 percent of net sales, compared with $158.3 million or 15.3 percent for the prior year period. Second quarter net income and diluted earnings per share, on a comparable basis, increased 20 percent to $98.1 million and 17 percent to $0.41, respectively.
We are pleased by the excellent operating margin expansion in the quarter, stated Sands. The margin expansion and solid bottom line performance were driven by true growth in the right categories, and
demonstrates the benefits of our diversified product portfolio and geographic
markets.
Constellation Wines Results
For the second quarter fiscal 2006, Constellation wines net sales totaled $800.2 million, up 19 percent.
Branded wine net sales increased 35 percent to reach $556.4 million, driven by the Robert Mondavi and Ruffino brands and five percent growth in the base business, including a one percent benefit from currency.
Net sales of branded wine in the United States increased
59
percent, primarily driven by the addition of Robert Mondavi and Ruffino brands. The integration of these premium brands into our U.S. marketing and selling infrastructure is complete, said Sands, who added, As a result, we experienced robust marketplace trends as the Woodbridge, Robert Mondavi Private Selection, Robert Mondavi Winery and Ruffino brands generated solid volume gains during the last 12-week reporting period through Sept. 4, 2005, based on Information Resources, Inc.s (IRI) food and drug channel data, compared with prior year results.
The Icon Estates (formerly Franciscan Estates) portfolio, together with new products from Constellation Wine U.S., including Monkey Bay and Twin Fin, also contributed to growth in the quarter.
 
Monkey Bay Sauvignon Blanc is currently the top selling branded wine from New Zealand according to IRI data and our Twin Fin family of varietals epitomizing the California lifestyle has become the top-selling brand of all new wines introduced to date in calendar year 2005, stated Sands. These brands have been embraced by consumers and retailers. Their success, together with other new offerings such as Four Emus and Kellys Revenge from Australia, demonstrates the strength of our winemaking, selling and marketing teams ability to produce concept wines that appeal to consumers demand for fun-loving, fruit-forward wines of quality that fit their lifestyle.
Continued growth in Blackstone, Ravenswood, Simi, Estancia and other brands in the portfolio reflects the ongoing consumer trend of trading up to premium, super-premium and fine wine brands in the marketplace.
Branded wine net sales in Europe were flat, including a two percent negative impact from currency. On a constant currency
 
basis, branded wine net sales in Europe grew two percent, reflecting intensely competitive and challenging market conditions in the U.K.
By leveraging our leadership position, our branded wine volume in the U.K. continues to grow and
 
we are strengthening our relationships with major retailers as we navigate through this dynamic retail environment, said Sands. Robert Mondavi Woodbridge landed on the shelves of major U.K. retailers at the end of August, and while the rollout is still underway, early marketplace feedback has been positive and we are enthusiastic about the potential for this brand as we head into the key holiday selling season. Additionally, our growth in mainland Europe continues to be strong.
Branded wine net sales in Australasia were down one percent, including a seven percent benefit from currency. Year over year sales comparisons were impacted by timing of shipments. Based on ACNielsen data for the second quarter of fiscal 2006, the companys portfolio continues to grow in the Australian off-premise channel, while maintaining its leadership position in a competitive retail environment.
 
Wholesale and other net sales decreased six percent for the quarter, including a two percent negative impact from currency. Slight growth in the U.K. wholesale business was more than offset by a reduction in net sales of cider, bottled water and the divested commodity concentrate business.
 
Constellation wines operating income for the quarter totaled $123.7 million, a 41 percent increase over the second quarter of fiscal 2005. Segment operating margin for the quarter was 15.5 percent compared with 13.1 percent
for the prior year, reflecting the benefit of improved sales mix, due in part to the addition of the Robert Mondavi portfolio and improved pricing in the U.S. popular wine portfolio.
Earlier this week, Constellation Wines U.S. initiated a program to consolidate certain west coast production processes through a combination of investment in new assets, reconfiguration of certain existing assets and a small reduction in personnel. This will result in greater asset utilization and increased efficiencies while reducing ongoing operating costs. This program is expected to be substantially complete
by
early fiscal 2007.
 
Constellation Beers and Spirits Results
 
Net sales for Constellation
 
beers and spirits for the second quarter fiscal 2006 reached $391.7 million, a seven percent increase over the prior year period. Imported beers posted a nine percent increase in net sales for the quarter due to volume gains for the companys Modelo, St. Pauli Girl and Tsingtao products.
Our premium beer portfolio significantly outperformed the category in the quarter and showed strong growth in a competitive market as consumers continued to trade up, explained Sands. We continue to see Coronas brand equity increase with consumers, retailers and distributors as the result of an incredibly effective marketing effort anchored by a lifestyle advertising campaign message thats remained as consistent as the quality of Corona for many years.
Total spirits net sales for the second quarter increased two percent on flat branded spirits net sales and an increase in the companys contract production services. Led by Black Velvet Canadian Whisky, the companys branded spirits products grew approximately
two
percent, calendar year-to-date through Sept. 4, 2005, based on IRI food and drug channel data, compared with prior year results.
 
On August 1, we began importing and marketing Meukow Cognac, a premium product line in the U.S., said Sands. Like Effen Vodka, Meukow is a
small, yet growing brand that supports our strategy to invest in premium spirits
brands in growing categories. We believe our U.S. distribution capabilities will accelerate the growth of this award-winning brand. Effen and Meukow join new product rollouts underway for Balblair single-malt scotch and Danfields Canadian Whisky, while the rollout for Ridgemont Reserve 1792 Kentucky Bourbon, introduced late last year, is nearly complete. All of these are examples of our focus on expanding Constellation Brands premium spirits portfolio and generating additional true growth.
Operating income for Constellation beers and spirits totaled $87.6 million for the second quarter, an increase of five percent over the prior year. This segments operating margin for the quarter was 22.4 percent compared with 22.9 percent for the prior year, reflecting a higher growth rate for beer, which has a lower operating margin than spirits.
Pro Forma Net Sales
For the quarter, pro forma net sales, which include $103.8 million of sales from Robert Mondavi for the prior year second quarter, increased four percent. Pro forma branded wine net sales for the quarter increased eight percent
, including a one percent benefit from currency
. The robust second quarter performance for the Robert Mondavi portfolio reflects renewed focus on brand-building.
Summary
During the second quarter of our fiscal 2006 the price of petroleum products moved into uncharted territory, tragic and senseless terrorist attacks rocked London and Hurricane Katrina ravaged the U.S. Gulf Coast. Our hearts go out to those impacted by these adversities. While these current events could
have become distractions, Constellations 8,500 employees around the world remained focused on delivering results and additional true growth opportunities to increase shareholder value, stated Sands. We believe that in turbulent times the best course is always a steady one.
Outlook
The table below sets forth managements current diluted earnings per share expectations both on a reported basis and a comparable basis for the third quarter ending Nov. 30, 2005, and fiscal year ending Feb. 28, 2006. This is compared to actual diluted earnings per share both on a reported basis and a comparable basis for the third quarter ended Nov. 30, 2004, and fiscal year ended Feb. 28, 2005.
With respect to the table, the reported basis and comparable basis estimates are subject to final purchase accounting adjustments related to the Robert Mondavi acquisition and the investment in Ruffino. The reported basis and comparable basis estimates exclude the impact of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004) Share-Based Payment, which the company is required to adopt for interim periods beginning March 1, 2006. Reconciliations of reported information to comparable information are included in this media release.
Full-year guidance includes the following assumptions:
 
Common Stock Splits
All share and per share amounts in this press release, including within the financial information, reflect the effect of the companys two-for-one stock splits of its Class A and Class B common stock that were distributed in the form of stock dividends on May 13, 2005 to stockholders of record on April 29, 2005.
Quarterly Conference Call
A conference call to discuss second quarter fiscal 2006 results and outlook will be hosted by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard Sands and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Tom Summer on Thursday, Oct. 6, 2005 at 5:00 p.m. (eastern). The conference call can be accessed by dialing +973-935-8505 beginning 10 minutes prior to the start of the call. A live listen-only web cast of the conference call, together with a copy of this press release (including the attachments) and other financial information that may be discussed in the call will be available on the Internet at Constellations Web site: www.cbrands.com under Investors, prior to the call.
Explanations
 
Net income and diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis exclude acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual items. Pro forma net sales give effect to the Robert Mondavi acquisition as if the company had owned Robert Mondavi in the same period a year ago. The company discusses results on a comparable basis and pro forma basis in order to give investors better insight on underlying business trends from continuing operations. Management uses the comparable basis measures in
evaluating results from continuing operations.
Tables reconciling the above measures, as well as other related financial measures to reported results are included in this release. For a detailed
discussion of these items, please see the section Items Affecting Comparability 
following the financial information. The companys measure of segment
profitability excludes acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring and
related charges and unusual items, which is consistent with the measure used by management to evaluate results.
About Constellation
Constellation Brands, Inc. is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol brands with a broad portfolio across the wine, spirits and imported beer categories. Well-known brands in Constellations portfolio include: Corona Extra, Corona Light, Pacifico, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, St. Pauli
Girl, Tsingtao, Black Velvet, Fleischmanns, Mr. Boston, Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy, Chi-Chis, 99 Schnapps, Ridgemont Reserve 1792, Effen Vodka, Stowells, Blackthorn, Almaden, Arbor Mist, Vendange, Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Nobilo, Alice White, Ruffino, Robert Mondavi Private Selection, Blackstone, Ravenswood, Estancia, Franciscan Oakville Estate, Simi and Robert Mondavi Winery brands. For additional information about Constellation Brands, as well as its product portfolio, visit the companys Web site at www.cbrands.com.
The statements made under the heading Outlook (collectively, the Outlook), as well as all other statements set forth in this press release which are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
During the quarter, Constellation may reiterate the estimates set forth above under the heading Outlook. Prior to the start of the companys quiet period, beginning Nov. 17, 2005, the public can continue to rely on the Outlook as still being Constellations current expectations on the matters covered, unless Constellation publishes a notice stating otherwise.
Beginning Nov. 17, 2005, Constellation will observe a quiet period 
during which the Outlook no longer constitutes the companys current expectations. During the quiet period, the Outlook should be considered to be historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet period only, and not subject to update by the company.
The companys forward-looking statements are based on managements current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination,
divestiture or financing that may be completed after the date of this release. Any projections of future results of operations, and in particular, (i) the companys estimated diluted earnings per share on a reported basis for third quarter 2006 and fiscal 2006, and (ii) the companys estimated diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis for third quarter 2006 and fiscal 2006, should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur. In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the forward-looking statements of the company contained in this press release are also subject to the following risks and uncertainties: the successful integration of the Robert Mondavi business into that of the company; final management determinations and independent appraisals vary materially from current management estimates of (i) the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the Robert Mondavi acquisition and (ii) the fair value of assets and liabilities of Ruffino; the company achieving certain sales projections and meeting certain cost targets; wholesalers and retailers may give higher priority to products of the companys competitors; raw material supply, production or shipment difficulties could adversely affect the companys ability to supply its customers; increased competitive activities in the form of pricing, advertising and promotions could adversely impact consumer demand for the companys products and/or result in higher than expected selling, general and administrative expenses; a general decline in alcohol consumption; increases in excise and other taxes on beverage alcohol products; and changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. For additional information about risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect the companys forward-looking statements, please refer to the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Feb. 28, 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Restructuring and related charges
- The company recorded restructuring and related charges, primarily associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition, of $0.01 per share in the second quarter of fiscal 2006. The company expects to record restructuring and related charges of $0.01 per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2006 and $0.03 per share for fiscal 2006, primarily associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition
and certain personnel reductions in connection with the U.S. West Coast facility rationalization.
Acquisition-related integration costs
- The company recorded acquisition-related integration costs
associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition
of $0.02 per share in the second quarter of fiscal 2006. The company estimates acquisition-related integration costs to be $0.01 per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2006 and $0.05 per share for fiscal 2006.
Inventory step-up
- The allocation of purchase price in excess of book value for certain inventory on hand at the date of acquisition is referred to as inventory step-up. Inventory step-up represents an assumed manufacturing profit attributable to the acquired company prior to acquisition. For inventory produced and sold after the acquisition date, the related manufacturers profit accrues to the company. The flow through of inventory step-up related to the Robert Mondavi acquisition
, including the investment in Opus One,
and the investment in Ruffino had a negative impact of $0.01 per share in the second quarter of fiscal 2006. The impact of the flow through of inventory step-up is expected to be $0.02 per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2006, and $0.05 per share for fiscal 2006.
Adverse grape cost
- In connection with the Robert Mondavi acquisition, the historical cost of certain inventory on hand at the date of acquisition was higher
than the company's ongoing grape cost primarily due to the purchase of grapes by Robert Mondavi prior to the date of acquisition under the terms of their then existing grape contracts. The cost of the grapes purchased under these contracts was in excess of market prices. Therefore, the company's ongoing cost to purchase grapes will be lower than Robert Mondavi's historical cost. The excess of the historical cost of grapes over the company's ongoing cost of grapes
is referred to by the company as the adverse grape cost. The flow through of adverse grape cost totaled $0.02 per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2006, and is expected to total $0.02 per share and $0.07 per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2006, respectively.
Income tax adjustment
-
 
During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the company recorded a benefit of $0.07 per share as a result of adjustments to income tax accruals in connection with the completion of various income tax examinations.
Allied Domecq due diligence costs
-
 
During the second quarter of fiscal 2006, the company recorded $0.01 per share for professional service fees incurred for due diligence associated with its evaluation of a potential offer for Allied Domecq.
U.S. West Coast Facility Rationalization
- The company initiated a program to
consolidate certain west coast production processes. This will result in greater asset utilization and increased efficiencies while reducing ongoing operating costs. As a result of this initiative the company expects to record charges for the reconfiguration and accelerated depreciation related to certain production assets. The company expects charges of $0.02 per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2006, and charges of $0.03 per share for fiscal 2006, which will be recorded to cost of product sold.
 
Financing costs
-
 
On Feb. 10, 2004, the company called its $200,000,000 8.5% senior subordinated notes due 2009 which were redeemed March 2004. In connection with this redemption, the company incurred an unusual charge of $0.03 per share in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 related to the call premium and the remaining unamortized financing fees associated with the original issuance of the bonds. On Dec. 22, 2004, the company entered into a new $2.9 billion credit agreement, proceeds of which were used to fund the acquisition of Robert Mondavi, pay certain obligations of Robert Mondavi and to repay the outstanding balance on Constellations prior credit agreement. The company recorded an unusual charge of $0.06 per share in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 for the write-off of bank fees related to the repayment of the companys prior credit agreement. Financing costs charges totaled $0.09 per share in fiscal 2005.
Restructuring and related charges
- In connection with the realignment of business operations within the companys wines segment and the Robert Mondavi acquisition, the company recorded restructuring and related charges of $0.02 per share for fiscal 2005.
Acquisition-related integration costs
- As a result of the Robert Mondavi acquisition, the company recorded acquisition-related integration cost of $0.03 per share for fiscal 2005.
Inventory step-up
- The flow through of inventory step-up for the Hardy and Robert Mondavi acquisitions had a negative impact of $0.02 per share for fiscal 2005.
Adverse grape cost
- The adverse grape cost totaled $0.03 per share for fiscal 2005.
Net gain on sale of non-strategic assets
-
 
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the company realized a gain on the sale of a portion of the Taunton cider property, plant and equipment, partially offset by a loss on the sale of the
investment in the International Wine Investment Fund. The company recorded a net gain of $0.01 per share on these sales.
Gain on transaction termination fee
-
 
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the company recognized a gain of $0.01 per share related to the receipt of a payment associated with the termination of a previously announced potential fine wine joint venture.


