FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20050114151454.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any
of the
following
provisions
(see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.05.   COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH EXIT OR DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES.
 
 
On January 10, 2005, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the "Company") committed to the principal features of
a plan to restructure and integrate the operations of The Robert Mondavi Corporation ("Robert Mondavi") which the Company acquired on December 22, 2004 (the "Plan"). The Plan is under development and is expected to be finalized during the Company's fiscal year ending February 28, 2006 ("Fiscal 2006"). The objective of the Plan is to achieve operational efficiencies and eliminate redundant costs resulting from the transaction. The Plan includes the elimination of approximately 300 employees, the consolidation of certain field sales and administrative offices, and the termination of various contracts. The Company does not currently ant icipate closing any production facilities in connection with the Plan. The actions under the Plan commenced on January 10, 2005, and the Company currently expects to complete the Plan by the end of the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006.
As further detailed in the table below, a portion of the costs associated with the Plan will be recorded as liabilities in the Company's allocation of purchase price in connection with the Company's acquisition of Robert Mondavi. The remaining portion of the costs associated with the Plan will be charged to the Company's results of operations during the fourth quarter of the Company's fiscal year ending February 28, 2005, and Fiscal 2006. In connection with the Plan, the Company expects to incur aggregate cash expenditures of approximately $52 million. No noncash charges are contemplated in connection with the Plan. The following table sets forth the Company's current expectations related to the Plan:
 
In addition, Robert Mondavi had previously disclosed its intention to sell its Byron and Arrowood brand assets consisting of winery properties and related assets, and certain other vineyard properties. The Company currently intends to continue with these dispositions. The Company does not currently expect to record a material charge to the Company's results of operations as a result of these dispositions.
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Company's control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in, or implied by, such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including statements regarding the Company's future financial position and results, are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations and conditions in the general economy and the markets in which the Company competes, the forward-looking statements of the Company contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K are also subject to risks and uncertainties regarding the successful integration of the Robert Mondavi business into that of the Company, final management determinations and independent appraisals varying materially from current management estimates of the fair value of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in the acquisition of Robert Mondavi, and the other risks and uncertainties described in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 29, 2004, and other SEC filings.
 
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
   
 
 
 
 
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
 
 


