FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20051209163343.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
o
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
On December 9, 2005, Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) issued a press release, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, in which it provided information regarding the expiration of its previously announced offer to acquire all of the outstanding common shares (and associated Poison Pill Rights) of Vincor International Inc. (Vincor).
    
This Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit hereto, is being furnished in lieu of a tender offer filing, since Vincor does not have a class of equity securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
References to Constellation's website in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference. The information included in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1, are incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD. This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99
 
[LOGO] 
CONSTELLATION                          
 
 
 
FAIRPORT, N.Y., Dec. 9, 2005 -
Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR) today announced that its offer to purchase all of the common shares of Vincor International Inc. (TSX: VN) expired at midnight (Toronto time), on Dec. 8, 2005, consistent with the terms of the offer.
It is unfortunate for Vincor shareholders that the Vincor board chose not to pursue the alternative that would maximize value for its shareholders, despite the boards failure to identify any other alternatives, said Richard Sands, Constellation Brands chairman and chief executive officer. The Vincor board refused to engage in any dialogue with us regarding our C$35 per share cash proposal.
Sands added, Constellation could not let this process continue indefinitely. In these circumstances, we will move on to other priorities and we will continue to build upon our outstanding track record of delivering growth and value to our shareholders."
About Constellation Brands
Constellation Brands, Inc. is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol brands with a broad portfolio across the wine, spirits and imported beer categories.  Well-known brands in Constellation's portfolio include: Corona Extra, Corona Light, Pacifico, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, St. Pauli Girl, Tsingtao, Black Velvet, Fleischmann's, Mr. Boston, Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy, Chi-Chi's, 99 Schnapps, Ridgemont Reserve 1792, Effen Vodka, Stowells, Blackthorn, Almaden, Arbor Mist, Vendange, Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Nobilo, Alice White, Ruffino, Robert Mondavi Private Selection, Blackstone, Ravenswood, Estancia, Franciscan Oakville Estate, Simi, Robert Mondavi Winery brands and Opus One.  For additional information about Constellation Brands, as well as its product portfolio, visit the company's Web site at www.cbrands.com.
 


