FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20051104180035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
o
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
ITEM 7.01
 
REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
 
 On November 4, 2005, Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) issued a press release, attached here as Exhibit 99.1, in which it questioned the recommendation made by the Board of Directors of Vincor International Inc. (Vincor) that Vincor shareholders reject Constellation's cash takeover bid (the "Offer") to acquire all of the outstanding common shares (and associated Poison Pill Rights) of Vincor for CDN $31.00 per share.  As previously announced, the Offer is scheduled to expire at 5:00 p.m. Toronto time on Monday, November 28, 2005, unless the Offer is extended.  The Offer is not conditional on financing or the completion of due diligence but contains certain customary conditions, including the valid tender, and non-withdrawal, of at least 66 2/3% of Vincors common shares and receipt of required regulatory consents and approvals.
   
    
 This Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit hereto, is being furnished in lieu of a tender offer filing, since Vincor International Inc. does not have a class of equity security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
   
 References to Constellation's website in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference.  The information included in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1, are incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD.  This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
   
 
 
 
ITEM 9.01
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
[LOGO]
CONSTELLATION
News Release
CONTACTS
:
Media Relations:
Mike Martin - 585-218-3669
John Lute - 416-929-5883
Investor Relations:
Lisa Schnorr - 585-218-3677
Bob Czudak - 585-218-3668
FAIRPORT, N.Y., Nov. 4, 2005 --
Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR) today questioned the recommendation made by the Board of Directors of Vincor International Inc. (TSX: VN) that shareholders reject Constellations $31 per share cash offer.
Vincor shareholders have every right to be disappointed with the action - or inaction - of their Board of Directors, said Richard Sands, Constellation Brands chairman. It has been almost two months since we approached Vincor with a proposal and more than a month since we announced we were prepared to pay $31 (Canadian) per share in cash. In all that time, the Vincor Board has failed to demonstrate concrete steps to deliver maximum value to its shareholders.
Vincors Board remains entrenched in the position it took even before we announced our $31 per share cash offer. Its reasons were flawed then and are flawed now, yet Vincors Board continues to reject the only existing value-enhancing alternative for its shareholders, Sands continued. The Vincor Boards response to Constellation is not based on performance but only on their expectations, their plans and prospects that only they can see.
Vincors shareholders should be asking their Board and management these questions:
The question Vincor shareholders should ask themselves is simply whether they choose to benefit from Constellations immediate all-cash offer or accept the continued risk and uncertainty of the Boards promises, Sands said. Throughout this process, Constellation has been clear, fair and accessible -- in stark contrast to Vincor. We believe that the entrenched position of Vincors Board and management threatens their suppliers, customers, business partners, employees, and most especially, Vincors shareholders.
As previously announced, Constellation commenced its cash takeover bid on Thursday, October 20, 2005, and the offer expires at 5:00 p.m. Toronto time on Monday, November 28, 2005, unless extended. Constellations offer is not conditional on financing or the completion of due diligence but contains certain customary conditions, including the valid tender, and non-withdrawal, of at least 66-2/3% of Vincors common shares and receipt of required regulatory consents and approvals.
Further information is available for Vincor shareholders by contacting the information agent for the offer, Innisfree M&A Incorporated toll-free at 1-877-825-8772 (English speakers) or 1-877-825-8777 (French speakers). (Banks and brokers may call collect at 212-750-5833).
About Constellation
Constellation Brands, Inc. is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage
alcohol brands with a broad portfolio across the wine, spirits and imported beer categories.  Well-known brands in Constellation's portfolio include: Corona Extra, Corona Light, Pacifico, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, St. Pauli Girl, Tsingtao, Black Velvet, Fleischmann's, Mr. Boston, Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy, Chi-Chi's, 99 Schnapps, Ridgemont Reserve 1792, Effen Vodka, Stowells, Blackthorn, Almaden, Arbor Mist, Vendange, Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Nobilo, Alice White, Ruffino, Robert Mondavi Private Selection, Blackstone, Ravenswood, Estancia, Franciscan Oakville Estate, Simi and Robert Mondavi Winery brands.  For additional information about Constellation Brands, as well as its product portfolio, visit the company's Web site at
www.cbrands.com
.
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond Constellations control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in, or implied by, such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this press release are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release. Constellation undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. There can be no assurance that any transaction between Constellation and Vincor will occur, or will occur on the timetable contemplated hereby. For additional information about risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect Constellations forward-looking statements, please refer to Constellations Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2005 and Constellations Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended August 31, 2005.


