FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20051207154639.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
o
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
On December 7, 2005, Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) issued a press release, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, in which it provided information regarding the time and manner in which shareholders of Vincor International Inc. (Vincor) may tender to Constellations previously announced enhanced offer to acquire all of the outstanding common shares (and associated Poison Pill Rights) of Vincor.    
This Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit hereto, is being furnished in lieu of a tender offer filing, since Vincor International Inc. does not have a class of equity securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
References to Constellation's website in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference. The information included in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1, are incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD. This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99
 
[LOGO] 
CONSTELLATION                          
 
 
FAIRPORT, N.Y., Dec. 7, 2005 --
Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR) today reminded shareholders of Vincor International Inc. (TSX: VN) that its C$33.00 cash per share offer for all of Vincors common shares expires at the end of the day Thursday, December 8 (midnight Eastern time).
In deliberating the merits of tendering their shares to the offer, Vincor shareholders should consider:
How to Tender Your Vincor Shares
Vincor shareholders who wish to accept Constellations offer must properly complete and duly execute a Letter of Acceptance and Transmittal or a facsimile thereof and deposit it, together with certificates representing their Vincor shares, in accordance with the instructions in the Letter of Acceptance and Transmittal. Alternatively, Vincor shareholders may follow the procedures for guaranteed delivery set forth in Section 3 of the Offer to Purchase dated Oct. 19, 2005. Vincor shareholders whose shares are registered in the name of a broker, dealer, bank, trust company or other nominee should contact such registered holder for assistance if they wish to accept the offer.
Questions and requests for assistance may be directed to the Information Agent, Innisfree M&A Incorporated, toll-free at 1-877-825-8772 (English speakers) or 1-877-825-8777 (French speakers) or to the depositary, CIBC Mellon Trust Company, toll-free at 1-800-387-0825 or the dealer managers, TD Securities Inc. at (416) 307-3752 and TD Securities (U.S.A.) LLC at (212) 827-7565.
 
About Constellation Brands
Constellation Brands, Inc. is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol brands with a broad portfolio across the wine, spirits and imported beer categories.  Well-known brands in Constellation's portfolio include: Corona Extra, Corona Light, Pacifico, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, St. Pauli Girl, Tsingtao, Black Velvet, Fleischmann's, Mr. Boston, Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy, Chi-Chi's, 99 Schnapps, Ridgemont Reserve 1792, Effen Vodka, Stowells, Blackthorn, Almaden, Arbor Mist, Vendange, Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Nobilo, Alice White, Ruffino, Robert Mondavi Private Selection, Blackstone, Ravenswood, Estancia, Franciscan Oakville Estate, Simi, Robert Mondavi Winery brands and Opus One.  For additional information about Constellation Brands, as well as its product portfolio, visit the company's Web site at www.cbrands.com.
Forward Looking Statements
 
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond Constellation's control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in, or implied by, such forward-looking statements.  All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this press release are forward-looking statements.  All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release.  Constellation undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  There can be no assurance that any transaction between Constellation and Vincor will occur, or will occur on the timetable contemplated hereby.  For additional information about risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect Constellation's forward-looking statements, please refer to Constellation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2005 and Constellation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended August 31, 2005.
# # #


