FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20060105092709.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
o
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
ITEM 2.02
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
 
On January 5, 2006, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company), a Delaware corporation, issued a press release (the release) announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the third fiscal quarter ended as of November 30, 2005. A copy of the release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The projections constituting the guidance included in the release involve risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at this time and, therefore, actual results may vary materially from these forecasts. In this regard, see the information included in the release under the caption Forward-Looking Statements.
The information in the release and in this Item 2.02 section is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Such information may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references such information.
The release contains non-GAAP financial measures; in the release these are referred to as comparable or pro forma measures or "constant currency." For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Comparable measures are provided because management uses this information in evaluating the results of the continuing operations of the Company and in internal goal setting. In addition, the Company believes this information provides investors a better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance. As such, the flow through of adverse grape cost associated with the acquisition of The Robert Mondavi Corporation (Robert Mondavi); the flow through of inventory step-up associated with acquisitions and investments in equity method investees; accelerated depreciation costs in connection with the U.S. West Coast facility rationalization; financing costs associated with the Companys redemption of senior notes and repayment of the Company's prior credit agreement; due diligence costs associated with the Company's evaluation of a potential offer for Allied Domecq; net gain on the sale of non-strategic assets; gain on transaction termination;
acquisition-related integration costs associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition; restructuring and related charges associated with the Companys realignment of business operations within the Companys wine segment, the Robert Mondavi acquisition and the U.S. West Coast facility rationalization; and the income tax adjustment in connection with the reversal of an income tax accrual related to the completion of various income tax examinations are excluded from comparable results.
Similarly, pro forma information, including Robert Mondavi pro forma net sales information in the year ago period set forth in the release, is provided because management believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.  Constant currency measures, which exclude the impact of year over year currency exchange rate fluctuations, are provided because management believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.
ITEM 7.01
 
REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
On January 5, 2006, the Company issued a press release (the release), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information included in this Form 8-K, including the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD. This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
ITEM 9.01
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
[LOGO] 
CONSTELLATION   
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
HIGHLIGHTS
 
FAIRPORT, N.Y., Jan. 5, 2006
- Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR), a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol, today reported net sales of $1.3 billion for the third quarter of fiscal 2006, up 17 percent over prior year, including a negative two percent impact from currency, or 19 percent on a constant currency basis. Net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2006 included $129.0 million in sales of brands from the December 2004 acquisition of The Robert Mondavi Corporation (Robert Mondavi) and $10.7 million from sales of Ruffino brands which the company began distributing in the United States in February 2005. Excluding Robert Mondavi and Ruffino brands and the impact of currency, net sales grew six percent.
 
Outstanding performance by our imported beer and branded wine
 
 
businesses, together with the addition of the Robert Mondavi brands, fueled
excellent top-line growth and strong margin expansion for the quarter, stated Richard Sands, Constellation Brands chairman and chief executive officer. Our branded products in the beer, wine and spirits categories continue to drive our long-term growth and profitability. Exclusive of the Robert Mondavi and Ruffino portfolios, our branded product net sales grew seven percent, including a negative one percent impact from currency, or nine percent on a constant currency basis.
 
Operating income, as reported under generally accepted accounting principles (reported), totaled $221.4 million, for the third quarter, or 17.5 percent of net sales, compared with $181.7 million or 16.7 percent of net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2005. Reported net income for the third quarter increased 12 percent to $109.0 million, while reported diluted earnings per share for the third quarter totaled $0.46 an increase of 10 percent over the same period the year before. Equity in earnings of equity method investees increased for the quarter, primarily due to the companys 50 percent investment in Opus One, which the company obtained in connection with its acquisition of Robert Mondavi.
 
Third quarter fiscal 2006 and 2005 reported results include acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual items. Net income and diluted earnings per share, on a comparable basis, exclude these costs, charges and items. Third quarter operating income, on a comparable basis, was $242.4 million or 19.1 percent of net sales, compared with $185.2 million or 17.1 percent for the prior year period. On a comparable basis, third quarter net income and diluted earnings per share increased 25 percent to $123.6 million and 24 percent to $0.52, respectively.
 
Constellation Wines Results
 
For the third quarter fiscal 2006, Constellation wines net sales totaled $917.7 million, up 19 percent, including a negative three percent impact from currency.
 
Branded wine net sales increased 32 percent to reach $672.2 million, driven by the Robert Mondavi and Ruffino brands and five percent growth in the base business. Currency had a negative two percent impact on net sales for the quarter. Excluding the Robert Mondavi and Ruffino brands and the impact of
currency, branded wine net sales increased six percent.
 
Net sales of branded wine in the United States increased 50 percent, primarily driven by the addition of Robert Mondavi and Ruffino brands. Since they became part of our portfolio, we have been extremely pleased with the marketplace performance of these premium wine brands, explained Sands. Constellations new products, including Monkey Bay, Twin Fin and 3 Blind Moose continue to gain momentum in the marketplace and contribute to the companys growth. The success of these product introductions is the result of our extensive consumer insight, combined with our strong route-to-market capabilities.
 
We are also gratified by the results weve been able to achieve recently in Europe, especially given the intensely competitive and challenging market conditions in the U.K., explained Sands. Constellation leveraged its leadership position and relationships with U.K. retailers to gain key placement, promotion and advertising of our brands as we headed into the always important holiday season.
 
 
Branded wine net sales in Europe increased four percent, including a six percent negative impact from currency, or 10 percent on a constant currency basis, primarily due to volume gains. Branded wine net sales in Australasia were up seven percent, including a one percent negative impact from currency, or nine percent on a constant currency basis.
 
Wholesale and other net sales decreased seven percent for the third quarter, including a five percent negative impact from currency, or a decrease of two percent on a constant currency basis. The U.K. wholesale business was down slightly as the U.K. on-premise market conditions continue to be
 
 
challenging.
 
Constellation wines operating income for the quarter totaled $184.4 million, a 44 percent increase over the third quarter of fiscal 2005. Segment operating margin for the quarter was 20.1 percent compared with 16.5 percent for the prior year quarter, reflecting the benefit of improved sales mix, due in part
to the addition of the Robert Mondavi portfolio and improved pricing in the U.S.
popular wine portfolio.
 
Constellation Beers and Spirits Results
 
Net sales for Constellation beers and spirits for the third quarter fiscal 2006 reached $349.4 million, a 12 percent increase over the prior year period. Imported beers posted a 16 percent increase in net sales for the quarter due to strong volume growth of the companys Mexican beers portfolio.
 
Our beer business continues to benefit from category growth, market share gains driven by increasing consumer demand, in addition to expanded distribution for our portfolio, stated Sands. The company also noted the signing of an extension of its import agreement with Tsingtao through the end of calendar 2011. Constellations Barton Beers has imported Tsingtao since 1978.
 
Total spirits net sales for the third quarter increased one percent reflecting slight increases in branded spirits as well as contract production services. Premium products such as Chi-Chis pre-mixed cocktails and the 99 line of flavored Schnapps continue to grow and gain momentum in the marketplace. Constellation continues to maintain its leadership position in value-priced spirits, and is aggressively pursuing opportunities to expand its premium spirits offerings.
 
In October 2005, we acquired Cocktails by Jenn, a premium ready-to-drink vodka martini brand marketed primarily to women, said Sands. Similar to Effen Vodka and Meukow Cognac, Cocktails by Jenn adds another innovative premium brand, in a growing category, to our expanding premium spirits portfolio.
 
Operating income for Constellation beers and spirits totaled $73.3 million for the third quarter, an increase of three percent over the prior year. Segment operating margin for the quarter was 21.0 percent compared with 22.9 percent for the prior year quarter, primarily due to mix and higher transportation costs for the quarter.
 
Pro Forma Branded Wine Net Sales
 
Pro forma branded wine net sales for the quarter, which include $138.3 million of sales from Robert Mondavi for the prior year third quarter, increased
four percent, including a negative one percent impact from currency, or five percent on a constant currency basis. Prior year Robert Mondavi branded wine net sales include $11.2 million of sales for brands that were subsequently disposed. Excluding the $11.2 million of net sales of disposed brands, pro forma branded wine net sales increased six percent, including a negative one percent impact from currency, or seven percent on a constant currency basis.
 
Depletion trends for Woodbridge and Robert Mondavi Private Selection were positive for the third quarter and fiscal year-to-date periods and were in-line with the companys growth expectations for these key brands.
 
Summary
 
The growth of our base business was solid in our third quarter of fiscal 2006, and to a great degree we were able to mitigate the impact of natural disasters and higher energy and raw material costs, factors that were largely beyond our control, said Sands. Constellation Brands people around the world remain focused on growing our business to create more shareholder value.
 
 
Outlook
 
The table below sets forth managements current diluted earnings per share expectations both on a reported basis and a comparable basis for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ending Feb. 28, 2006. This is compared to actual diluted earnings per share both on a reported basis and a comparable basis for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended Feb. 28, 2005.
 
With respect to the table, the reported basis and comparable basis estimates exclude the impact of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004) Share-Based Payment, which the company is required to adopt for interim periods beginning March 1, 2006. Reconciliations of reported information to comparable information are included in this media release.
 
 
Full-year guidance includes the following assumptions:
 
Common Stock Splits
 
All share and per share amounts in this press release, including within the financial information, reflect the effect of the companys two-for-one stock splits of its Class A and Class B common stock that were distributed in the form of stock dividends on May 13, 2005 to stockholders of record on April 29, 2005.
 
Quarterly Conference Call
 
A conference call to discuss third quarter fiscal 2006 results and outlook will be hosted by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard Sands and
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Tom Summer on Thursday,
Jan. 5, 2006 at 10:00 a.m. (eastern). The conference call can be accessed by
dialing +973-935-8505 beginning 10 minutes prior to the start of the call. A live listen-only web cast of the conference call, together with a copy of this press
release (including the attachments) and other financial information that may be discussed in the call will be available on the Internet at Constellations Web site: www.cbrands.com under Investors, prior to the call.
 
Explanations
 
 
Net income and diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis exclude acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual items. Pro forma net sales give effect to the Robert Mondavi acquisition as if the company had owned Robert Mondavi in the same period a year ago. The company discusses results on a comparable basis and pro forma basis in order to give investors better insight on underlying business trends from continuing operations. Management uses the comparable basis measures in evaluating results from continuing operations.
 
Tables reconciling the above measures, as well as other related financial measures to reported results are included in this release. For a detailed
discussion of these items, please see the section Items Affecting Comparability following the financial information. The companys measure of segment profitability excludes acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring and
related charges and unusual items, which is consistent with the measure used by management to evaluate results.
 
Net sales on a constant currency basis exclude the impact of year-over-year currency exchange rate fluctuations. The company discusses net sales on
a constant currency basis in order to give investors better insight on underlying business trends from continuing operations. Certain constant currency basis percentages may not sum due to rounding.
 
About Constellation
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol brands with a broad portfolio across the wine, spirits and imported beer categories. Well-known brands in Constellations portfolio include: Corona Extra, Corona Light, Pacifico, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, St. Pauli Girl, Tsingtao, Black Velvet, Fleischmanns, Mr. Boston, Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy, Chi-Chis, 99 Schnapps, Ridgemont Reserve 1792, Effen Vodka, Stowells, Blackthorn, Almaden, Arbor Mist, Vendange, Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Nobilo, Alice White, Ruffino, Robert Mondavi Private Selection, Blackstone, Ravenswood, Estancia, Franciscan Oakville Estate, Simi, Robert
Mondavi Winery brands and Opus One. For additional information about Constellation Brands, as well as its product portfolio, visit the companys Web site at www.cbrands.com.
 
The statements made under the heading Outlook (collectively, the Outlook), as well as all other statements set forth in this press release which are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
During the quarter, Constellation may reiterate the estimates set forth above under the heading Outlook. Prior to the start of the companys quiet period, beginning Feb. 14, 2006, the public can continue to rely on the Outlook as still being Constellations current expectations on the matters covered, unless Constellation publishes a notice stating otherwise.
Beginning Feb. 14, 2006, Constellation will observe a quiet period during which the Outlook no longer constitutes the companys current expectations. During the quiet period, the Outlook should be considered to be historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet period only, and not subject to update by the company.
The companys forward-looking statements are based on managements current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the
impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination,
divestiture or financing that may be completed after the date of this release. 
Any projections of future results of operations, and in particular, (i) the companys estimated diluted earnings per share on a reported basis for fourth quarter 2006
and fiscal 2006, and (ii) the companys estimated diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis for fourth quarter 2006 and fiscal 2006, should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur. In
addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the forward-looking statements of the company contained in this press release are also subject to the following risks and uncertainties: the company achieving certain sales projections and meeting certain cost targets; wholesalers and retailers may give higher priority to products of the companys competitors; raw material supply, production or shipment difficulties could adversely affect the companys ability to supply its customers; increased competitive activities in the form of pricing, advertising and promotions could adversely impact consumer demand for the companys products and/or result in higher than expected selling, general and administrative expenses; a general decline in alcohol consumption; increases in excise and other taxes on beverage alcohol products; and changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. For additional information about risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect the companys forward-looking statements, please refer to the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Feb. 28, 2005.
- more -
Restructuring and related charges
- The company recorded restructuring and related charges of $0.01 per share in the third quarter of fiscal 2006. The company expects to record restructuring and related charges of $0.01 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. For fiscal 2006, the company expects to record restructuring and related charges of $0.03 per share associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition and certain personnel reductions in connection with the companys U.K. operations and U.S. West Coast facility rationalization.
Acquisition-related integration costs
- The company recorded acquisition-related integration costs associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition of less than $0.01 per share in the third quarter of fiscal 2006. The company estimates acquisition-related integration costs to be less than $0.01 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and $0.05 per share for fiscal 2006.
Inventory step-up
- The allocation of purchase price in excess of book value for certain inventory on hand at the date of acquisition is referred to as inventory step-up. Inventory step-up represents an assumed manufacturing profit attributable to the acquired company prior to acquisition. For inventory produced and sold after the acquisition date, the related manufacturers profit accrues to the company. The flow through of inventory step-up related to the Robert Mondavi acquisition, including the investment in Opus One, and the investment in Ruffino had a negative impact of $0.01 per share in the third quarter of fiscal 2006. The impact of the flow through of inventory step-up is expected to be $0.01 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, and $0.04 per share for fiscal 2006.
Adverse grape cost
- In connection with the Robert Mondavi acquisition, the historical cost of certain inventory on hand at the date of acquisition was higher than the company's ongoing grape cost primarily due to the purchase of grapes by Robert Mondavi prior to the date of acquisition under the terms of their then existing grape contracts. The cost of the grapes purchased under these contracts was in excess of market prices. Therefore, the company's ongoing cost to purchase grapes will be lower than Robert Mondavi's historical cost. The excess of the historical cost of grapes over the company's ongoing cost of grapes is referred to by the company as the adverse grape cost. The flow through of adverse grape cost totaled $0.02 per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2006, and is expected to total $0.01 per share and $0.07 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2006, respectively.
Income tax adjustment
-
 
During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the company recorded a benefit of $0.07 per share as a result of adjustments to income tax accruals in connection with the completion of various income tax examinations.
Allied Domecq due diligence costs
-
 
During the second quarter of fiscal 2006,
the company recorded $0.01 per share for professional service fees incurred for
due diligence associated with its evaluation of a potential offer for Allied Domecq.
U.S. West Coast Facility Rationalization
- During the third quarter of fiscal 2006, the company initiated a program to consolidate certain west coast production processes in order to gain greater asset utilization and increased efficiencies while reducing ongoing operating costs. As a result of this initiative, the company recorded charges of $0.02 per share to cost of product sold for the reconfiguration and accelerated depreciation related to certain production assets for the third quarter of fiscal 2006. The company expects to record charges of $0.02 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and $0.04 per share for the full year of fiscal 2006, which will be recorded to cost of product sold.
 
Financing costs
-
 
On Feb. 10, 2004, the company called its $200,000,000 8.5% senior subordinated notes due 2009 which were redeemed March 2004. In connection with this redemption, the company incurred an unusual charge of $0.03 per share in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 related to the call premium and the remaining unamortized financing fees associated with the original issuance of the bonds. On Dec. 22, 2004, the company entered into a new $2.9 billion credit agreement, proceeds of which were used to fund the acquisition of Robert Mondavi, pay certain obligations of Robert Mondavi and to repay the outstanding balance on Constellations prior credit agreement. The company recorded an unusual charge of $0.06 per share in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 for the write-off of bank fees related to the repayment of the companys prior credit agreement. Financing costs charges totaled $0.09 per share in fiscal 2005.
Restructuring and related charges
- In connection with the realignment of business operations within the companys wines segment and the Robert Mondavi acquisition, the company recorded restructuring and related charges of $0.02 per share for fiscal 2005.
Acquisition-related integration costs
- As a result of the Robert Mondavi acquisition, the company recorded acquisition-related integration cost of $0.03 per share for fiscal 2005.
Inventory step-up
- The flow through of inventory step-up for the Hardy and Robert Mondavi acquisitions had a negative impact of $0.02 per share for fiscal 2005.
Adverse grape cost
- The adverse grape cost totaled $0.03 per share for fiscal 2005.
Net gain on sale of non-strategic assets
-
 
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the company realized a gain on the sale of a portion of the Taunton cider property, plant and equipment, partially offset by a loss on the sale of the investment in the International Wine Investment Fund. The company recorded a net gain of $0.01 per share on these sales.
Gain on transaction termination fee
-
 
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the company recognized a gain of $0.01 per share related to the receipt of a payment associated with the termination of a previously announced potential fine wine joint venture.


