FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20060802195018.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Material Impairments	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
On August 2, 2006, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company) committed to the principal features of a plan to invest in new distribution and bottling facilities in the United Kingdom (UK) and to streamline certain of its Australian operations (collectively, the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan). The initiatives are part of the Companys ongoing efforts to maximize asset utilization, further reduce costs and improve long-term return on invested capital throughout its international operations. The UK portion of the plan includes new investments in property, plant and equipment and certain disposals of property, plant and equipment and is expected to increase wine bottling capacity and efficiency and reduce costs of transport, production and distribution. The UK portion of the plan also includes costs for employee terminations. The Australian portion of the plan includes the buy-out of certain grape supply and processing contracts and the sale of certain property, plant and equipment. The actions under the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan are expected to commence by August 31, 2006, and the Company currently expects the Australian portion of the plan to be complete by the end of the Companys current fiscal year, which ends on February 28, 2007 (Fiscal 2007) and the UK portion of the plan to be complete by the end of the fiscal year which ends on February 28, 2009 (Fiscal 2009).
 
As further detailed in the table below, the Company expects to incur approximately $33 million of restructuring charges in connection with the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan and approximately $7 million of other related costs, all of which charges and costs will be recorded in the Companys results of operations during Fiscal 2007, the fiscal year ending February 29, 2008 (Fiscal 2008) and Fiscal 2009. Additionally, the Company expects to record accelerated depreciation of approximately $10 million for the disposals of certain property, plant and equipment in the UK, primarily during Fiscal 2007 and Fiscal 2008. The Company also concluded on August 2, 2006, that the expected sale of certain property, plant and equipment in Australia will result in an impairment charge of approximately $10 million during Fiscal 2007 which impairment charge is not expected to result in any future cash expenditures. In connection with the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan, the Company expects to incur aggregate cash expenditures of approximately $40 million, primarily during Fiscal 2007, and an aggregate of approximately $20 million of non-cash charges, primarily during Fiscal 2007. The following table sets forth the Companys current expectations related to the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan:
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Companys control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in, or implied by, such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including statements regarding the Companys expected restructuring charges, other related costs, accelerated depreciation and impairment charge on assets to be sold, all of which are in connection with the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan, are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations and conditions in the general economy and the markets in which the Company competes, the forward-looking statements of the Company contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K are also subject to the following risks and uncertainties: the Companys restructuring charges, other related costs, accelerated depreciation and impairment charge on assets to be sold, all of which are in connection with the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan, vary materially from managements current estimates of these charges and costs due to variations in anticipated headcount reductions, contract terminations, and proceeds from the sale of assets identified for sale; and other risks and uncertainties described in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2006, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 
 
The information set forth in Item 2.05 above is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.06.
 
 
On August 2, 2006, the Company issued a press release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as
Exhibit
99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The release provided information about, among other items, the Companys updated financial guidance for its second quarter ending August 31, 2006 and fiscal year ending February 28, 2007, and its plans to invest in new distribution and bottling facilities in the United Kingdom and to streamline certain of its Australian operations. The projections constituting the guidance included in the release involve risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at this time and, therefore, actual results may vary materially from these forecasts. In this regard, see the information included in the release under the caption Forward-Looking Statements.
References to the Companys website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Company disclaims any such incorporation by reference. The information included in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD. This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
[LOGO]    
Constellation
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
FAIRPORT, N.Y., Aug. 2, 2006 -
Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR), a leading international beverage alcohol producer and marketer, today announced plans to invest in new Constellation Europe distribution and bottling facilities in the United Kingdom (U.K.) and to streamline certain Australian wine operations (collectively, the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan). These initiatives are part of the companys ongoing efforts to harvest opportunities which maximize asset utilization, further reduce costs and improve long-term return on invested capital (ROIC) throughout its international operations.
U.K. Program Details
The new U.K. facilities are expected to reduce costs of production and distribution while increasing profitability for the companys U.K. operations. In addition to consolidating warehousing and distribution, Constellation Europes wine bottling capacity and efficiency will be significantly increased.
Adding a new distribution center and bottling operations is expected to reduce Constellation Europes costs of transport and manufacturing. In concert with the existing national distribution center, the new distribution center will house
Constellation Europes branded and wholesale product inventory, and will eliminate the need for the multiple satellite warehouses currently being used, while accommodating future expansion of the business. Constellation expects construction of the additional distribution center to be completed in its fiscal year 2009.
The company is also in the process of finalizing the programs details, which will include new investments in fixed assets and certain fixed asset disposals.
Australia Program Details
In Australia, Constellations Hardy Wine Company will streamline certain operations to maximize long-term value of its retained assets and to continue strengthening its leadership position in Australian New World wines. This includes the buy-out of certain grape supply and processing contracts and the sale of certain non-strategic assets.
Overview
The recent identification of these opportunities, combined with the addition of Vincor to our international wine portfolio in June, validated the potential long-term value associated with making these changes, stated Rob Sands, Constellation Brands president and chief operating officer. Our decentralized and entrepreneurial structure allows us to swiftly identify and act upon opportunities such as this to fine tune our organization as needed. Both the U.K. and Australian markets are intensely competitive and it is essential that we continue to identify and harvest opportunities to reduce our operating costs and improve our returns to maintain our competitive advantage. In the future, we will continue to look at high return projects such as these to further streamline our business, improve our returns and create greater value from our acquisitions.
Financial Details
The company expects these projects to reduce net operating expenses by approximately $5 million in fiscal 2008, and by more than $15 million annually
beginning in fiscal 2009.
In connection with the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan, the company expects to incur one-time cash charges of approximately $40 million and one-time non-cash charges of approximately $20 million, for a total of approximately $60 million in one-time charges. The expected timing of the charges is as follows:
 
 
 
The company also expects to incur capital expenditures in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009 totaling approximately $25 million in connection with these projects, primarily related to the U.K. distribution and bottling project. Investments in the additional distribution center and new bottling operations are expected to be substantially offset by avoiding capital investment in certain existing facilities.
As a result of these announced changes, the company is providing updated diluted earnings per share outlook for both its second quarter fiscal 2007, as well as full-year fiscal 2007. The company also noted that its updated second quarter and full-year fiscal 2007 guidance includes the write-off of approximately $12 million of financing fees related to the repayment of the companys prior credit agreement in connection with the companys recent acquisition of Vincor International Inc. (Vincor). The items announced today are expected to result in second quarter fiscal 2007 pre-tax charges totaling approximately $42 million.
Outlook
The table below sets forth managements current diluted earnings per share
expectations compared to actual results both on a reported basis and a comparable basis for the periods presented. Effective March 1, 2006, the company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment (SFAS 123(R)). For comparison purposes, the table
also provides actual comparable basis diluted earnings per share, including pro forma stock compensation expense, as though the company had adopted SFAS 123(R) for the periods presented.
With respect to the table, reconciliations of reported information to comparable information and to comparable information, including pro forma stock compensation expense, are included in this news release.
 
 
 
 
Full-year fiscal 2007 guidance includes the proposed beer joint venture with Grupo Modelo, excludes Vincor purchase accounting adjustments related to assets subject to an independent appraisal and includes the following assumptions
:
Explanations
Reported basis (reported) diluted earnings per share is reported under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Diluted earnings per share on
a comparable basis (comparable) excludes acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual items.
The company discusses additional non-GAAP measures in this news release, including free cash flow and comparable basis diluted earnings per share, including pro forma stock compensation expense. Tables reconciling non-GAAP measures, together with definitions of these measures and the reasons management uses these measures, are included in this news release.
About Constellation Brands
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. is a leading international producer and marketer
of beverage alcohol brands with a broad portfolio across the wine, spirits and imported beer categories. Well-known brands in Constellations portfolio include: Almaden, Arbor Mist, Vendange, Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Nobilo, Kim Crawford, Alice White, Ruffino, Kumala, Robert Mondavi Private Selection, Rex Goliath, Toasted Head, Blackstone, Ravenswood, Estancia, Franciscan Oakville Estate, Inniskillin, Jackson-Triggs, Simi, Robert Mondavi Winery, Stowells, Blackthorn, Black Velvet, Mr. Boston, Fleischmanns, Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy, Chi-Chis, 99 Schnapps, Ridgemont Reserve 1792, Effen Vodka, Corona Extra, Corona Light, Pacifico, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, St. Pauli Girl, Tsingtao. For additional information about Constellation Brands, as well as its product portfolio, visit the companys Web site at
www.cbrands.com
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The statements and estimates made in this news release under the heading Outlook replace in their entirety the statements and estimates set forth under the heading Outlook in the companys news release dated July 11, 2006.
 
The statements made under the heading Outlook, as well as all other statements set forth in this news release which are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
 
During the current quarter, Constellation may reiterate the estimates set forth above under the heading Outlook and elsewhere in this news release (collectively, the Projections).  Prior to the start of the companys quiet period, which will begin at the close of business on August 17, 2006, the public can continue to rely on the Projections as still being Constellations current expectations on the matters covered, unless Constellation publishes a notice stating otherwise.
 
          Commencing at the close of business on August 17, 2006, Constellation will observe a quiet period during which the Projections should not be considered to constitute the companys expectations.  During the quiet period, the Projections should be considered to be historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet period only and not subject to update by the company.
 
          The companys forward-looking statements are based on managements current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination, divestiture, restructuring or other strategic business realignments, or financing that may be completed after the date of this release.  Any projections of future results of operations, and in particular, (i) the companys estimated diluted earnings per share on a reported basis for fiscal 2007 and second quarter 2007, and (ii) the companys estimated diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis for fiscal 2007 and second quarter 2007, should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur.  In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the forward-looking statements of the company contained in this news release are also subject to the following risks and uncertainties: Constellations ability to integrate Vincors business successfully and realize expected synergies; the continued strength of Vincors relationships with its employees, suppliers and customers; the accuracy of the bases for forecasts relating to Vincors business;
the company's restructuring and related charges, acquisition-related integration costs and purchase accounting adjustments associated with the Vincor integration plan (announced in July 2006) and the companys restructuring and related charges associated with the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan and its global wine restructuring plan announced in February 2006 vary materially from management's current estimates of these charges, costs and adjustments due to variations in anticipated headcount reductions, contract terminations, and costs of the implementation of the Vincor integration plan
; the company achieving all of the expected cost savings from its Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan, from its Vincor integration plan and from its global wine restructuring plan due to, with respect to any or all of these plans, lower than anticipated reductions in headcount or other expenses, or a delay or greater than anticipated costs in their implementation; the company realizes lower than expected proceeds from sale of assets identified for sale under the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan and consequently incurs a greater than expected loss on the sale of such assets; the company achieving certain sales projections and meeting certain cost targets; wholesalers and retailers may give higher priority to products of the companys competitors; raw material supply, production or shipment difficulties could adversely affect the companys ability to supply its customers; increased
competitive activities in the form of pricing, advertising and promotions could adversely impact
consumer demand for the companys products and/or result in higher than expected selling, general and administrative expenses; a general decline in alcohol consumption; increases in excise and other taxes on beverage alcohol products; governmental bodies may increase tax rates; proportionately, the companys taxable income may be higher than expected in jurisdictions with higher tax rates; and changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, on July 17, 2006, the company announced a proposed joint venture with Grupo Modelo for the
purpose of importing and marketing Modelos Mexican beer portfolio into the United States and
Guam. Risks and uncertainties associated with this joint venture include, among others, the companys ability to complete the formation of the joint venture and its ability to complete it on the timetable contemplated, higher than expected start-up costs for the joint venture, the joint ventures ability to operate the business successfully, the joint ventures ability to develop appropriate standards, controls, procedures and policies for the growth and management of the joint venture and the strength of the joint ventures relationships with its employees, suppliers and customers. 
 
          For additional information about risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect the companys forward-looking statements, please refer to the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Feb. 28, 2006, which contain a discussion of additional factors that may affect Constellations business.  The factors discussed in these reports could cause actual future performance to differ from current expectations.
 


