FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20061012151335.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
      On October 11, 2006, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company) filed a Certificate of Elimination with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware effecting the elimination from the Companys Restated Certificate of Incorporation of all matters set forth in the Certificate of Designations with respect to the 5.75% Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock of the Company (the Preferred Stock), no shares of which were issued and outstanding following the automatic conversion of the Preferred Stock into shares of the Class A Common Stock of the Company on September 1, 2006. The Certificate of Elimination, which was effective October 11, 2006, is attached to this report as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
      Also on October 11, 2006 and following the filing and effectiveness of the Certificate of Elimination, the Company filed a Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware
, restat
ing and integrating, without further amending, the Companys Certificate of Incorporation, as such Certificate of Incorporation had heretofore been restated, amended or supplemented.  
The Restated Certificate of Incorporation, which also was effective October 11, 2006, is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.2 and
is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the Corporation),
DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:
FIRST
: That at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Corporation held on October 4, 2006, the following resolutions were duly adopted authorizing the elimination of all matters set forth in the Certificate of Designations with respect to the 5.75% Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock of the Corporation:
WHEREAS,
on July 29, 2003, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Corporation) filed a Certificate of Designations with respect to the 5.75% Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (the Certificate of Designations) pursuant to Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware; and
WHEREAS,
all of the shares of 5.75% Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock of the Corporation have been converted into shares of Class A Common Stock of the Corporation or cash in lieu of fractional shares of Class A Common Stock;
NOW, THEREFORE, it is
RESOLVED
,
 
that no shares of 5.75% Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock of the Corporation are outstanding, and no such shares will be issued subject to the Certificate of Designations;
RESOLVED
, that t
he officers of the Corporation are hereby authorized to execute and file with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware a certificate pursuant to Sections 103 and 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware setting forth these resolutions in order to eliminate from the Corporations Restated Certificate of Incorporation all matters set forth in the Certificate of Designations (the Certificate of Elimination);
RESOLVED,
that the appropriate officers of the Corporation, and each of them, are hereby authorized to take, or cause to be taken, such further action, and to execute and deliver, or cause to be executed and delivered, for and in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, all such instruments, documents and certificates, as they may deem necessary, appropriate or desirable in order to effect the purposes of the foregoing resolutions (as conclusively evidenced by the taking of such action or the execution and delivery of such instruments, documents or certificates, as the case may be, by or under the direction of such officers).
SECOND:
That in accordance with the provisions of Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation is hereby amended to eliminate all matters set forth in the Certificate of Designations filed on July 29, 2003 with respect to the 5.75% Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
the Corporation has caused this certificate to be signed by a duly authorized officer on this 11th 
day of October, 2006.
 

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc., a Delaware corporation,
 
DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:
 
FIRST
.
 
 
The name of the corporation is Constellation Brands, Inc. The name under which it was originally incorporated was Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc. The date of filing its original Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware was December 4, 1972.
 
SECOND
.
 
This Restated Certificate of Incorporation was duly adopted by Constellation Brands, Inc.s Board of Directors on October 4, 2006 in accordance with Section 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
 
THIRD
.
 
This Restated Certificate of Incorporation only restates and integrates, and does not further amend, the provisions of Constellation Brands, Inc.s Certificate of Incorporation, as such Certificate of Incorporation had heretofore been restated, amended or supplemented. There is no discrepancy between those provisions and the provisions of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
 
FOURTH
.
 
The text of the Certificate of Incorporation as restated, amended or supplemented heretofore is hereby restated without further amendments or changes to read as herein set forth in full:
 
1.
 
Name
. The name of the Corporation is Constellation Brands, Inc.
 
2.
 
Address; Registered Agent
. The address of the registered office in the State of Delaware is 1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name of its registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
 
3.
 
Purposes
. The nature of business or purposes to be conducted or promoted is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
 
4.
 
Capitalization; General Authorization
. The total number of shares of stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is Three Hundred Thirty-One Million (331,000,000) consisting of:
 
(a)
 
Class A Common. Three Hundred Million (300,000,000) shares designated as Class A Common Stock, having a par value of One Cent ($.01) per share (the Class A Common);
 
(b)
 
Class B Common. Thirty Million (30,000,000) shares designated as Class B Common Stock, having a par value of One Cent ($.01) per share (the Class B Common); and
 
(c)
 
Preferred Stock. One Million (1,000,000) shares designated as Preferred Stock, having a par value of One Cent ($.01) per share (the Preferred Stock).
 
5.
 
Rights and Limitations
. The designations, powers, preferences and relative participation, optional or other special rights and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof in respect of each class of capital stock of the Corporation are as follows:
 
(i)
 
Class A Common and Class B Common
. The Class A Common and Class B Common shall be identical in all respects and shall entitle the holders thereof to the same rights, privileges and limitations, except as otherwise provided herein. The relative rights, privileges and limitations are as follows:
 
(a)
 
Voting Rights
. The holders of Class A Common and Class B Common shall have the following rights:
 
(i)
 
The holders of Class A Common and Class B Common shall be entitled to vote as separate classes on all matters as to which a class vote is now, or hereafter may be, required by law.
 
(ii)
 
The number of authorized shares of Class A Common and/or Class B Common may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) by the majority vote of all Class A Common and Class B Common voting as a single class, provided that the holders of Class A Common shall have one (1) vote per share and the holders of Class B Common shall have ten (10) votes per share.
 
(iii)
 
At every meeting of shareholders called for the election of directors, the holders of the Class A Common, voting as a class, shall be entitled to elect one-fourth (1/4) of the number of directors to be elected at such meeting (rounded, if the total number of directors to be elected at such meeting is not evenly divisible by four (4), to the next higher whole number), and the holders of the Class B Common, voting as a class, shall be entitled to elect the remaining number of directors to be elected at such meeting. Irrespective of the foregoing, if the number of outstanding Class B Common shares is less than 12 1/2% of the total number of outstanding shares of Class A Common and Class B Common, then the holders of the Class A Common shall be entitled to elect one-fourth (1/4) of the number of directors to be elected at such meeting (rounded, if the total number of directors to be elected at such meeting is not evenly divisible by four (4), to the next higher whole number) and shall be entitled to participate with the holders of the Class B Common shares voting as a single class in the election of the remaining number of directors to be elected at such meeting, provided that the holders of Class A Common shall have one (1) vote per share and the holders of the Class B Common shall have ten (10) votes per share. If, during the interval between annual meetings for the election of directors, the number of directors who have been elected by either the holders of the Class A Common or the Class B Common shall, by reason of resignation, death, retirement, disqualification or removal, be reduced, the vacancy or vacancies in directors so created may be filled by a majority vote of the remaining directors then in office, even if less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director. Any director so
 
2
 
elected by the remaining directors to fill any such vacancy may be removed from office by the vote of the holders of a majority of the shares of the Class A Common and the Class B Common voting as a single class, provided that the holders of Class A Common shall have one (1) vote per share and the holders of the Class B Common shall have ten (10) votes per share.
 
(iv)
 
The holders of Class A Common and Class B Common shall in all matters not specified in Sections 5(i)(a)(i), 5(i)(a)(ii) and 5(i)(a)(iii) vote together as a single class, provided that the holders of Class A Common shall have one (1) vote per share and the holders of Class B Common shall have ten (10) votes per share.
 
(v)
 
There shall be no cumulative voting of any shares of either the Class A Common or the Class B Common.
 
(b)
 
Dividends
. Subject to the rights of the Class A Common set forth in Paragraph 5(i)(c) hereof, the Board of Directors, acting in its sole discretion, may declare in accordance with law a dividend payable in cash, in property or in securities of the Corporation, on either the Class A Common or the Class B Common or both.
 
(c)
 
Cash Dividends
. The Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion, declare cash dividends payable only to holders of Class A Common or to both the holders of Class A Common and Class B Common, but not only to holders of Class B Common. A cash dividend in any amount may be paid on the Class A Common if no cash dividend is to be paid on the Class B Common. If a cash dividend is to be paid on the Class B Common, a cash dividend shall also be paid on the Class A Common in an amount per share thereof which exceeds the amount of the cash dividend paid on each share of Class B Common by at least ten percent (10%) (rounded up, if necessary, to the nearest one-hundredth of a cent).
 
(d)
 
Convertibility
. Each holder of record of a share of Class B Common may at any time or from time to time, without cost to such holder and at such holders option, convert any whole number or all of such holders shares of Class B Common into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Class A Common at the rate of one share of Class A Common for each share of Class B Common surrendered for conversion. Any such conversion may be effected by any holder of Class B Common by surrendering such holders certificate or certificates for the shares of Class B Common to be converted, duly endorsed, at the office of the Corporation or the office of any transfer agent for the Class A Common, together with a written notice for the Corporation at such office that such holder elects to convert all or a specified number of such shares of Class B Common. Promptly thereafter, the Corporation shall issue and deliver to such holder a certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Class A Common to which such holder shall be entitled as aforesaid. Such conversion shall be made as of the close of business on the date of such surrender and the person or persons entitled to receive the shares of Class A Common issuable on such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Class A Common on such date. The Corporation will at all times reserve and keep available, solely for the purpose of issue upon conversion of the outstanding shares of Class B Common, such number of shares of Class A Common as shall be issuable upon the conversion of all such outstanding shares, provided that the foregoing shall not be considered to preclude the Corporation from satisfying its obligations in respect of the conversion of the outstanding
 
3
 
shares of Class B Common by delivery of shares of Class A Common which are held in the treasury of the Corporation.
 
(e)
 
Rights Upon Liquidation
. Holders of Class A Common and Class B Common shall have identical rights in the event of liquidation, and shall be treated as a single class for purposes thereof.
 
(ii)
 
Preferred Stock
. Subject to the terms contained in any designation of a series of Preferred Stock, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized, at any time and from time to time, to fix, by resolution or resolutions, the following provisions for shares of any class or classes of Preferred Stock of the Corporation or any series of any class of Preferred Stock:
 
(a)
 
the designation of such class or series, the number of shares to constitute such class or series which may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares of that class or series then outstanding) by resolution of the Board of Directors, and the stated value thereof if different from the par value thereof;
 
(b)
 
whether the shares of such class or series shall have voting rights, in addition to any voting rights provided by law, and, if so, the terms of such voting rights;
 
(c)
 
the dividends, if any, payable on such class or series, whether any such dividends shall be cumulative, and, if so, from what dates, the conditions and dates upon which such dividends shall be payable, and the preference or relation which such dividends shall bear to the dividends payable on any shares of stock of any other class or any other series of the same class;
 
(d)
 
whether the shares of such class or series shall be subject to redemption by the Corporation, and, if so, the times, prices and other conditions of such redemption;
 
(e)
 
the amount or amounts payable upon shares of such series upon, and the rights of the holders of such class or series in, the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or upon any distribution of the assets, of the Corporation;
 
(f)
 
whether the shares of such class or series shall be subject to the operation of a retirement or sinking fund and, if so, the extent to and manner in which any such retirement or sinking fund shall be applied to the purchase or redemption of the shares of such class or series for retirement or other corporate purposes and the terms and provisions relative to the operation thereof;
 
(g)
 
whether the shares of such class or series shall be convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of stock of any other class or any other series of the same class or any other securities and, if so, the price or prices or the rate or rates of conversion or exchange and the method, if any, of adjusting the same, and any other terms and conditions of conversion or exchange;
 
(h)
 
the limitations and restrictions, if any, to be effective while any shares of such class or series are outstanding upon the payment of dividends or the making of other distributions on, and upon the purchase, redemption or other acquisition by the Corporation
 
4
 
of the Common Stock or shares of stock of any other class or any other series of the same class;
 
(i)
 
the conditions or restrictions, if any, upon the creation of indebtedness of the Corporation or upon the issue of any additional stock, including additional shares of such class or series or of any other series of the same class or of any other class;
 
(j)
 
the ranking (be it pari passu, junior or senior) of each class or series vis-a-vis any other class or series of any class of Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends, the distribution of assets and all other matters; and
 
(k)
 
any other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and any qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, insofar as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, to the full extent permitted in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware.
 
The powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights of each class or series of Preferred Stock, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, if any, may differ from those of any and all other series at any time outstanding.
 
6.
 
By-Laws
. In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by statute, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation.
 
7.
 
Liability of Directors
. A member of the Corporations Board of Directors shall not be personally liable to the Corporation or its shareholders for monetary damages for a breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability of the director (i) for any breach of the directors duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its shareholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, relating to the payment of unlawful dividends or unlawful stock repurchases or redemptions, or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. If the Delaware General Corporation Law is amended after approval by the shareholders of this Paragraph to authorize corporate action further eliminating or limiting the personal liability of directors, then the liability of a director of the Corporation shall be eliminated or limited to the fullest extent permitted by the Delaware General Corporation Law, as so amended. Any repeal or modification of this Paragraph by the shareholders of the Corporation shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the Corporation existing at the time of such repeal or modification.
 
8.
 
Indemnification
.
 
(a)
 
Right to Indemnification
. Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is otherwise involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a proceeding), by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to an employee benefit plan (hereinafter an indemnitee), whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent
 
 
or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the Delaware General Corporation Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than such law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such indemnitee in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to an indemnitee who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the indemnitees heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that, except as provided in subparagraph (b) hereof with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, the Corporation shall indemnify any such indemnitee in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such indemnitee only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. The right to indemnification conferred in this Paragraph shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition (hereinafter an advancement of expenses), provided, however, that, if the Delaware General Corporation Law requires, an advancement of expenses incurred by an indemnitee in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such indemnitee, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking (hereinafter an undertaking), by or on behalf of such indemnitee, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined by final judicial decision from which there is no further right to appeal (hereinafter a final adjudication) that such indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified for such expenses under this Paragraph or otherwise.
 
(b)
 
Right of Indemnitee to Bring Suit
. If a claim under subparagraph (a) of this Paragraph is not paid in full by the Corporation within sixty days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation, except in the case of a claim for an advancement of expenses, in which case the applicable period shall be twenty days, the indemnitee may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim. If successful in whole or in part in any such suit, or in a suit brought by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the indemnitee shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting or defending such suit. In (i) any suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification hereunder (but not in a suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to an advancement of expenses) it shall be a defense that, and (ii) in any suit by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking the Corporation shall be entitled to recover such expenses upon final adjudication that, the indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its shareholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such suit that indemnification of the indemnitee is proper in the circumstance because the indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its shareholders) that the indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall create a presumption that the indemnitee has not
 
 
met the applicable standard of conduct or, in the case of such a suit brought by the indemnitee, be a defense to such suit. In any suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification or to an advancement of expenses hereunder, or by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the burden of proving that the indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified, or to such advancement of expenses, under this Paragraph or otherwise shall be on the Corporation.
 
(c)
 
Non-Exclusivity of Rights
. The rights of indemnification and to the advancement of expenses conferred in this Paragraph shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, by-law, agreement, vote of shareholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
 
(d)
 
Insurance
. The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the Delaware General Corporation Law.
 
(e)
 
Indemnification of Employees and Agents of the Corporation
. The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and to the advancement of expenses to any employee or agent of the Corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Paragraph with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Restated Certificate of Incorporation as of the 11th day of October, 2006.
 


