FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20060217080921.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
o
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
ITEM 7.01
 
REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
 
On February 16, 2006, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release (the release), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The release provided information about, among other items, the Companys plan to reorganize its global wine operations and estimated charges associated with that reorganization, the increase to the Companys stock repurchase program so that the Company is authorized to make future repurchases of its Class A and Class B Common Stock up to an aggregate of $100 million, changes to stock options including the acceleration of certain unvested stock options, and guidance for the Companys fourth quarter and fiscal year ending February 28, 2006 and fiscal year ending February 28, 2007.
References to the Companys website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Company disclaims any such incorporation by reference. The information included in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD. This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such
subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
ITEM 9.01
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
[LOGO]  
CONSTELLATION
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
FAIRPORT, N.Y.,
Feb. 16
,
2006
-
Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR), today provided its diluted earnings per share outlook for fiscal 2007 and updated its diluted earnings per share outlook for the fourth quarter and fiscal 2006. The company also announced an increase to its share buy-back program, accelerated vesting of certain employee stock option grants and the general elimination of the performance-based accelerated vesting feature from future option grants. In addition, the company announced the retirement of Stephen (Steve) Millar as CEO of Constellation Wines, together with organizational changes in its world wide wines business that simplify the reporting structure, increase efficiencies and reduce on-going costs. In connection with the world wide wines reorganization, the company will incur restructuring and related charges and other one-time costs.
 
Outlook
 
The 2007 table below sets forth managements current diluted earnings per share expectations both on a reported basis (as reported under generally accepted accounting principles) and a comparable basis (excluding acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual items) for the fiscal year ending Feb. 28, 2007.
 
The 2006 table below sets forth managements current diluted earnings per share expectations both on a reported basis and a comparable basis for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ending Feb. 28, 2006. This is compared to actual diluted earnings per share both on a reported basis and a comparable basis for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended Feb. 28, 2005.
 
With respect to the 2006 table, the reported basis and comparable basis estimates exclude the impact of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (SFAS 123(R)), which the company is required to adopt beginning March 1, 2006. The 2006 table also provides estimates of comparable basis diluted earnings per share, including stock-based employee compensation expense (stock compensation expense) on a pro forma basis as though the company had adopted SFAS 123(R) for the periods presented.
 
With respect to both tables, this news release includes reconciliations of reported information to comparable information and, for the 2006 table, to comparable information, including pro forma stock compensation expense.
 
 
Fiscal 2006 guidance includes the following assumptions:
 
 
Commenting on the companys outlook, Richard Sands, Constellation Brands chairman and chief executive officer stated, Were achieving significant operating leverage in our business, as demonstrated by our substantial adjusted EBIT margin expansion achieved during the first nine months of fiscal 2006. In fiscal year 2007 we expect net sales growth in the six to eight percent range, approximately double that of the industry, and we expect our margins to continue to grow as we leverage revenue growth to higher levels of adjusted EBIT and free cash flow growth. Sands also added, We expect healthy EPS growth in fiscal 2007 despite the impact of rising interest rates and a higher tax rate. We are truly growing in the right ways as growth in our branded businesses is expected to drive increasing profitability.
 
Common Share Repurchase Authorization
 
The Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $100 million of the companys common stock. The company desires to repurchase shares primarily to mitigate the dilutive effects of stock option exercises. The company may in its discretion occasionally enter into Rule 10b5-1 plans to facilitate repurchases of its shares.
 
Changes Related to Stock Options
 
The company announced that on Feb. 16, 2006, its Board of Directors approved the acceleration of vesting of certain unvested stock options previously
awarded under the companys Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan and Incentive Stock Option Plan. Stock options remain an important element of the companys employee compensation philosophy. The company expects that future stock option grants will not contain a performance-based acceleration feature, and instead are generally expected to vest over a four-year period at a rate of 25 percent per year.
 
The vesting of previously awarded stock options with the performance-based acceleration feature, combined with the change to ratable vesting, will enable the company to more accurately forecast future stock compensation expense and reduce related earnings volatility.
 
As a result of the vesting acceleration, options to purchase approximately 5.2 million shares of Constellations Class A common stock, which represent approximately two percent of the companys current common shares outstanding, have become fully exercisable. Of the accelerated options, 0.9 million, or 17 percent, are held by executive officers and 4.3 million, or 83 percent, are held by other employees. The accelerated options have a weighted average exercise price of $25.80 per share.
 
The companys fiscal 2007 stock compensation expense is expected to be approximately $8.5 million, or $0.02 per share. The companys pro forma stock compensation expense, net of actual stock compensation expense recorded under APB No. 25 and related interpretations, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2006 is expected to be $33.8 million, or $0.09 per share and $44.7 million, or $0.12 per share, respectively.
 
Stephen Millar Retires as CEO of Constellation Wines
 
Constellation Brands also today announced the retirement of Stephen Millar, 62, as chief executive officer of its global wine business, effective February 28, 2006. Millar joined Constellation Brands when it purchased Australian wine company BRL Hardy in April 2003, which made Constellation the largest wine producer in the world. The position he vacates will not be filled. Constellations wine business leaders from Constellation Wines U.S., Constellation Europe, Hardy Wine Company, Nobilo Wine
Group and Constellation Wines International will report directly to Rob Sands, Constellation Brands president and chief operating officer.
 
Steve has done a tremendous job building growth momentum for our brands and establishing a foundation for the future international growth of our wine portfolio, stated Rob Sands. Under his guidance, Hardy became Australias top wine company, and Steve subsequently strengthened Constellations wine presence after taking the reins of our global business in 2003. He helped Constellation become the largest premium wine producer in the world by fostering new product development throughout Constellations international wine businesses and successfully integrating acquisitions ranging from small wine firms to the iconic Robert Mondavi Corporation. Steve has built a terrific organization which produces, markets and sells an unparalleled wine portfolio.
 
Global Wine Reorganization
 
With Steve Millar retiring from his position and Constellations global wine strategy in full stride and gaining momentum, this became the opportune time to further refine our decentralized operating approach to enable our wine business leaders to be even more flexible and responsive in managing their unique production processes, customer relationships and markets, explained Rob Sands. These reporting changes position us to take even greater advantage of our operational scale, portfolio breadth and wine production, marketing and sales expertise to continue building on our position as the worlds largest wine company and to create shareholder value. Although our world wide wines infrastructure will be simplified to be flatter and more flexible, it will continue to play a vital role supporting our unique wine businesses around the world.
 
Last month Constellation Brands announced that its fine wine company, Icon Estates, headquartered at Napa, Calif., began reporting to Constellation Wines U.S. While Icon Estates retained production, sales and marketing autonomy for its fine wine portfolio, the reporting structure change allows Icon Estates to avail itself of Constellation Wines U.S.s back-office infrastructure. In addition, within individual
 
Constellation Wines U.S. wine companies, certain wine production
 
processes will be integrated to reduce ongoing costs. The company is also streamlining its U.K. operations, primarily through personnel reductions. We continuously strive to improve upon the already superb quality of our wine while maintaining marketplace competitiveness at all price levels, said Rob Sands.
 
Restructuring Charges
 
In connection with the companys global wine reorganization announced today, Constellation Brands estimates that it will incur restructuring and related charges and other one-time charges totaling approximately $55 million pre-tax, of which $39 million is cash and $16 million is non-cash. Approximately $24 million of the charges is expected to be recorded in the companys fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, and approximately $31 million of the charges is expected to be recorded in fiscal 2007.
 
The company believes the actions announced today will reduce ongoing operating expenses annually by approximately $35 million beginning in fiscal 2008, of which approximately $19 million is expected to be realized in fiscal 2007. These savings are included in the companys fiscal 2007 outlook.
 
The one-time charges are composed of the following:
 
Conference Call Information
 
A conference call to discuss the company's outlook for fiscal 2007, and fourth quarter and fiscal 2006 and other announcements contained within this press release, will be hosted by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard Sands and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Tom Summer on Friday, Feb. 17, 2006, at 11:00 a.m. (eastern). The conference call can be accessed by dialing
 
+973-935-8505 beginning 10 minutes prior to the start of the call. A live listen-only web cast of the conference call, together with a copy of this press release (including the attachments) and other financial information that may be discussed in the call will be available on the Internet at Constellations Web site: www.cbrands.com under Investors, prior to the call.
 
Common Stock Splits
 
All share and per share amounts in this press release, including within the financial information, reflect the effect of the companys two-for-one stock splits of its Class A and Class B common stock that were distributed in the form of stock dividends on May 13, 2005 to stockholders of record on April 29, 2005.
 
Explanations
 
Net income and diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis exclude acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual items. The company discusses results on a comparable basis in order to give investors better insight on underlying business trends from continuing operations. Management uses the comparable basis measurements in evaluating results from continuing operations.
 
Adjusted earnings before interest and taxes ("adjusted EBIT"), is defined by the company as comparable basis operating income plus comparable basis equity in earnings (loss) of equity method investees. The company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.
 
The company also provides estimates of comparable basis diluted earnings per share, including pro forma stock compensation expense for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and 2005, and for fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 as though the company had adopted SFAS 123(R) for the periods presented.
 
Tables reconciling the above measures, as well as other related financial measures to reported results, are included in this news release. For a detailed discussion of these items, please see the section Items Affecting Comparability
 
following the financial information. The companys measure of segment profitability excludes acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual items, which is consistent with the measure used by management to evaluate results.
 
About Constellation Brands
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol brands with a broad portfolio across the wine, spirits and imported beer categories. Well-known brands in Constellations portfolio include: Almaden, Arbor Mist, Vendange, Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Nobilo, Alice White, Ruffino, Robert Mondavi Private Selection, Blackstone, Ravenswood, Estancia, Franciscan Oakville Estate, Simi, Robert Mondavi Winery brands, Opus One, Stowells, Blackthorn, Black Velvet, Mr. Boston, Fleischmanns, Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy, Chi-Chis, 99 Schnapps, Ridgemont Reserve 1792, Effen Vodka, Corona Extra, Corona Light, Pacifico, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, St. Pauli Girl, Tsingtao. For additional information about Constellation Brands, as well as its product portfolio, visit the companys Web site at
www.cbrands.com
.
 
Forward Looking Statements
 
The statements made under the heading Outlook, as well as all other statements set forth in this press release which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
During the current quarter, Constellation may reiterate the estimates set forth above under the heading Outlook and elsewhere in this news release (collectively, the Projections). Prior to the start of the companys quiet period, which will begin at the close of business on Feb. 28, 2006, the public can continue to rely on the Projections as still being Constellations current expectations on the matters covered, unless Constellation publishes a notice stating otherwise.
At the close of business on Feb. 28, 2006, Constellation will observe a quiet period during which the Projections should not be considered to constitute the companys expectations. During the quiet period, the Projections should be considered to be historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet period only and not subject to update by the company.
The companys forward-looking statements are based on managements current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the
impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination,
divestiture or financing that may be completed after the date of this release. Any projections of future results of operations, and in particular, (i) the companys estimated diluted earnings per share on a reported basis for fiscal 2007, fourth quarter 2006 and fiscal 2006 (ii) the companys estimated diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis for fiscal 2007, fourth quarter 2006 and fiscal 2006, and (iii) the companys estimated comparable basis diluted earnings per share, including pro forma stock compensation expense for fourth quarter 2006 and fiscal 2006, should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur. In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the forward-looking statements of the company contained in this press release are also subject to the following risks and uncertainties: the company achieving certain sales projections and meeting certain cost targets; wholesalers and retailers may give higher priority to products of the companys competitors; raw material supply, production or shipment difficulties could adversely affect the companys ability to supply its customers; increased competitive activities in the form of pricing, advertising and promotions could adversely impact consumer demand for the companys products and/or result in higher than expected selling, general and administrative expenses; a general decline in alcohol consumption; increases in excise and other taxes on beverage alcohol products; and changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, the company may not achieve all of the expected cost savings related to its planned global wine restructuring due to lower than anticipated reductions in headcount or other expenses, or a delay or greater than anticipated costs in the implementation of the restructuring. For additional information about risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect the companys forward-looking statements, please refer to the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Feb. 28, 2005.
 
 
 
Restructuring and related charges
- For fiscal 2007, the company expects to record restructuring and related charges of $0.05 per share primarily associated with personnel reductions and contract termination costs in connection with the companys world wide wines reorganization announced Feb. 16, 2006.
World wide wines reorganization charges
- For fiscal 2007, the company expects to record charges of $0.03 per share primarily associated with accelerated depreciation for consolidation of certain manufacturing processes and costs associated with systems integration in connection with the companys world wide wines reorganization announced Feb. 16, 2006.
 
Acquisition-related integration costs
- The company estimates acquisition-related integration costs associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition to be less than $0.01 per share for fiscal 2007.
Inventory step-up
- The allocation of purchase price in excess of book value for certain inventory on hand at the date of acquisition is referred to as inventory step-up. Inventory step-up represents an assumed manufacturing profit attributable to the acquired company prior to acquisition. For inventory produced and sold after the acquisition date, the related manufacturers profit accrues to the company. The flow through of inventory step-up related to the Robert Mondavi acquisition, including the investment in Opus One, and the investment in Ruffino is expected to be $0.02 per share for fiscal 2007.
Adverse grape cost
- In connection with the Robert Mondavi acquisition, the historical cost of certain inventory on hand at the date of acquisition was higher than the company's ongoing grape cost primarily due to the purchase of grapes by Robert Mondavi prior to the date of acquisition under the terms of their then existing grape contracts. The cost of the grapes purchased under these contracts was in excess of market prices. Therefore, the company's ongoing cost to purchase grapes will be lower than Robert Mondavi's historical cost. The excess of the historical cost of grapes over the company's ongoing cost of grapes is referred to by the company as the adverse grape cost. The flow through of adverse grape cost is expected to total $0.01 per share for fiscal 2007.
U.S. west coast facility rationalization
- During the third quarter of fiscal 2006, the company initiated a program to consolidate certain west coast production processes in order to gain greater asset utilization and increased efficiencies while reducing ongoing operating costs. As a result of this initiative, the company expects to record charges of $0.01 per share for fiscal 2007 for the reconfiguration and accelerated depreciation related to certain production assets, which will be recorded to cost of product sold.
Restructuring and related charges
- The company expects to record restructuring
and related charges of $0.07 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, primarily related to personnel reductions associated with the companys world wide wines reorganization announced Feb. 16, 2006. For fiscal 2006, the company expects to record restructuring and related charges of $0.10 per share primarily associated with personnel reductions associated with the companys world wide wines reorganization announced Feb. 16, 2006, the Robert Mondavi acquisition and certain personnel reductions in connection with the companys U.K. operations and U.S. West Coast facility rationalization.
Acquisition-related integration costs
- The company estimates acquisition-related integration costs associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition to be less than $0.01 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and $0.05 per share for fiscal 2006.
Inventory step-up
- The flow through of inventory step-up related to the Robert Mondavi acquisition, including the investment in Opus One, and the investment in Ruffino is expected to be $0.01 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and $0.04 per share for fiscal 2006.
Adverse grape cost
- The flow through of adverse grape cost is expected to total $0.01 per share and $0.07 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2006, respectively.
Income tax adjustment
-
 
During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the company recorded a benefit of $0.07 per share as a result of adjustments to income tax accruals in connection with the completion of various income tax examinations.
Allied Domecq due diligence costs
-
 
During the second quarter of fiscal 2006,
the company recorded $0.01 per share for professional service fees incurred for
due diligence associated with its evaluation of a potential offer for Allied Domecq.
U.S. west coast facility rationalization
- The company expects to record charges of $0.02 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and $0.04 per share for fiscal 2006, for the reconfiguration and accelerated depreciation related to certain production assets, which will be recorded to cost of product sold.
 
Financing costs
-
 
On Feb. 10, 2004, the company called its $200,000,000 8.5% senior subordinated notes due 2009 which were redeemed March 2004. In connection with this redemption, the company incurred an unusual charge of $0.03 per share in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 related to the call premium and the remaining unamortized financing fees associated with the original issuance of the bonds. On Dec. 22, 2004, the company entered into a new $2.9 billion credit agreement, proceeds of which were used to fund the acquisition of Robert Mondavi, pay certain obligations of Robert Mondavi and to repay the outstanding balance on Constellations prior credit agreement. The company recorded an unusual charge of $0.06 per share in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 for the write-off of bank fees related to the repayment of the companys prior credit agreement. Financing costs charges totaled $0.09 per share in fiscal 2005.
Restructuring and related charges
- In connection with the realignment of business operations within the companys wines segment and the Robert Mondavi acquisition, the company recorded restructuring and related charges of $0.02 per share for fiscal 2005.
Acquisition-related integration costs
- As a result of the Robert Mondavi acquisition, the company recorded acquisition-related integration costs of $0.03 per share for fiscal 2005.
Inventory step-up
- The flow through of inventory step-up for the Hardy and Robert Mondavi acquisitions had a negative impact of $0.02 per share for fiscal 2005.
Adverse grape cost
- The adverse grape cost totaled $0.03 per share for fiscal 2005.
Net gain on sale of non-strategic assets
-
 
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the company realized a gain on the sale of a portion of the Taunton cider property, plant and equipment, partially offset by a loss on the sale of the investment in the International Wine Investment Fund. The company recorded a net gain of $0.01 per share on these sales.
Gain on transaction termination fee
-
 
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the company recognized a gain of $0.01 per share related to the receipt of a payment associated with the termination of a previously announced potential fine wine joint venture.
 
 
 


