FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20060712155420.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
On July 11, 2006, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company) committed to the principal features of a plan to restructure and integrate the operations of Vincor International Inc. (Vincor) which the Company acquired on June 5, 2006 (the Plan). The Plan is under development and is expected to be finalized by May 31, 2007. The objective of the Plan is to achieve operational efficiencies and eliminate redundant costs resulting from the transaction as well as to achieve greater efficiency in sales, marketing, administrative and operational activities. Approximately 90% of Vincors 2,358 worldwide employees will be retained, with positions trimmed coming primarily from sales, marketing, administrative and production redundancies in the United States, United Kingdom and Australia, where Constellations operations are significantly larger in scale than Vincors. The Plan also includes the termination of various contracts. The actions under the Plan commenced on July 11, 2006, and the Company currently expects to substantially complete the Plan by the end of the Companys current fiscal year, which ends on February 28, 2007 (Fiscal 2007).
 
As further detailed in the table below, a portion of the costs associated with the Plan will be recorded as liabilities in the Companys allocation of purchase price in connection with the Companys acquisition of Vincor. The remaining portion of the costs associated with the Plan will be charged to the Companys results of operations during Fiscal 2007 and its fiscal year ending February 29, 2008 (Fiscal 2008). In connection with the Plan, the Company expects to incur aggregate cash expenditures of approximately $89 million, primarily during Fiscal 2007. No non-cash charges are contemplated in connection with the Plan. The following table sets forth the Companys current expectations related to the Plan:
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Companys control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in, or implied by, such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including statements regarding the Companys expected restructuring and related charges, acquisition-related integration costs and purchase accounting adjustments associated with the Plan are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations and conditions in the general economy and the markets in which the Company competes, the forward-looking statements of the Company contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K are also subject to the following risks and uncertainties: the Companys ability to integrate successfully the Vincor business into that of the Company; the Companys restructuring and related charges, acquisition-related integration costs and purchase accounting adjustments associated with the Plan varying materially from managements current estimates of these charges, costs and adjustments due to variations in anticipated headcount reductions, contract terminations, and costs of the implementation of the Plan; and other risks and uncertainties described in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2006, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 
On July 11, 2006, the Company issued a press release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.  The release provided information about, among other items, the Companys plan to integrate operations acquired through its recent acquisition of Vincor International Inc., estimated costs and charges associated with that integration and guidance for the Companys second quarter and fiscal year ending February 28, 2007.  The projections constituting the guidance included in the release involve risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at this time and, therefore, actual results may vary materially from these forecasts. In this regard, see the information included in the release under the caption Forward-Looking Statements.
 
References to the Companys website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Company disclaims any such incorporation by reference.  The information included in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD.  This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
[LOGO]    
Constellation
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR) today announced its plan for the integration of acquired Vincor International operations around the world. Constellation completed the acquisition of Mississauga, Ontario, Canada-based Vincor International Inc. on June 5. On June 1, Vincor shareholders overwhelmingly voted to accept Constellations C$36.50 per share cash offer to buy the company.
FAIRPORT, N.Y., July 11, 2006 -
Approximately 90 percent of Vincors 2,358 worldwide employees will be retained, with positions trimmed coming primarily from sales, marketing, administrative and production redundancies in the United States, United Kingdom and Australia, where Constellations operations are significantly larger in scale than Vincors. In Canada, where nearly 79 percent of Vincors total employment exists, 30 people will be impacted. In addition, 16 positions will be filled, with the net decrease of 14 positions in Canada, representing less than one percent of Vincors nationwide employment. Vincors Canadian operations have become Vincor Canada, and it is Constellations fifth core market, the others being the United States, United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand.
While we are moving quickly to consolidate activities wherever it makes
sense, were maintaining an appropriate level of staffing and retaining the expertise and experience to maintain and grow the production, marketing and sales of Vincor brands around the world, stated Rob Sands, Constellation Brands president and chief operating officer. With both companies having very similar structures and cultures, the transition should be a smooth one. Whenever Constellation adds companies, brands and people, business continuity is always at the top of our priority list, and we want to make certain employees understand our values and culture, and feel good about becoming part of our growing organization. We wish we could retain everyone, but that is not possible because a small percentage of positions are duplicative. We provide appropriate transition support for anyone impacted by these changes.
Sales and marketing groups will be consolidated throughout the summer months, with systems integration slated for fall 2006. Some operations, such as warehousing, will also be consolidated, as will some supply chain activities. Each Vincor asset will be evaluated to determine how best to maximize its value to the regional operating company it is aligned with geographically. The integration is expected to be substantially complete by the end of fiscal year 2007. Those people displaced as a result of this integration plan will receive a severance package.
One-time Charges
In connection with the companys integration of Vincor announced today, Constellation expects to incur restructuring and related charges and acquisition-related integration costs totaling approximately $39 million pre-tax that will be recorded in the companys results of operations. These cash charges are composed primarily of employee redundancy costs and activities relating to the consolidation of certain back-office functions and systems.
Approximately $35 million of these charges is expected to be recorded in the companys fiscal 2007 results, of which approximately $16 million is expected to be recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2007. The remaining $4 million of
the charges is expected to be recorded in fiscal 2008.
The company will also incur one-time cash costs of approximately $50 million that will be recorded as liabilities in the companys allocation of purchase price in connection with the Vincor acquisition. The purchase accounting adjustments are composed primarily of severance charges associated with personnel reductions and contract termination costs.
The aggregate of restructuring and related charges, acquisition-related integration costs and purchase accounting adjustments, is approximately $89 million. A Form 8-K associated with the companys Vincor Integration Plan will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within four business days.
The company believes the actions announced today will reduce ongoing operating expenses annually by approximately $40 - $45 million beginning in fiscal 2008, with approximately half of the savings being realized in fiscal 2007 These savings and the associated costs are included in the companys fiscal 2007 outlook.
.
The Vincor integration plan we announced today should enable us to realize significant synergies and deliver returns consistent with those developed in our Vincor acquisition model, stated Sands. With our vast experience at managing a global wine business that has grown both organically and through acquisitions, we believe there remain unharvested opportunities to further refine our geographic footprint. We are evaluating our production capabilities to identify initiatives which will create incremental value and returns for the long term, while maintaining the quality, style and rich heritage of our wine portfolio.
Outlook
The table below sets forth managements current diluted earnings per share expectations compared to actual results both on a reported basis and a comparable basis for the periods presented. Effective March 1, 2006, the company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment (SFAS 123(R)). For comparison purposes, the table
also provides actual comparable basis diluted earnings per share, including pro forma stock compensation expense, as though the company had adopted SFAS 123(R) for the periods presented.
With respect to the table, reconciliations of reported information to comparable information and to comparable information, including pro forma stock compensation expense, are included in this news release.
 
Explanations
 
Reported basis (reported) diluted earnings per share is reported under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Diluted earnings per share on
a comparable basis (comparable) excludes acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual items.
The company discusses additional non-GAAP measures in this news release, including free cash flow and comparable basis diluted earnings per share, including pro forma stock compensation expense. Tables reconciling non-GAAP measures, together with definitions of these measures and the reasons management uses these measures, are included in this news release.
About Constellation Brands
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. is a leading international producer and marketer
of beverage alcohol brands with a broad portfolio across the wine, spirits and imported beer categories. Well-known brands in Constellations portfolio include: Almaden, Arbor Mist, Vendange, Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Nobilo, Kim Crawford, Alice White, Ruffino, Kumala, Robert Mondavi Private Selection, Rex Goliath, Toasted Head, Blackstone, Ravenswood, Estancia, Franciscan Oakville Estate, Inniskillin, Jackson-Triggs, Simi, Robert Mondavi Winery, Stowells, Blackthorn, Black Velvet, Mr. Boston, Fleischmanns, Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy, Chi-Chis, 99 Schnapps, Ridgemont Reserve 1792, Effen Vodka, Corona Extra, Corona Light, Pacifico, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, St. Pauli Girl, Tsingtao. For additional information about Constellation Brands, as well as its product portfolio, visit the companys Web site at
www.cbrands.com
.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The statements made under the heading Outlook, as well as all other statements set forth in this press release which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
 
During the current quarter Constellation may reiterate the estimates set forth above under the heading Outlook and elsewhere in this news release (collectively, the Updated Projections), which replace in their entirety the Projections as defined and set forth in the companys news release dated June 29, 2006.  Prior to the start of the companys quiet period, which will begin at the close of business on August 18, 2006, the public can continue to rely on the Updated Projections as still being Constellations current expectations on the matters covered, unless Constellation publishes a notice stating otherwise.
 
 
          At the close of business on August 18, 2006, Constellation will observe a quiet period during which the Updated Projections should not be considered to constitute the companys expectations.  During the quiet period, the Updated Projections should be considered to be historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet period only and not subject to update by the company.
 
          The companys forward-looking statements are based on managements current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination, divestiture, restructuring or other strategic business realignments, or financing that may be completed after the date of this release.  Any projections of future results of operations, and in particular, (i) the companys estimated diluted earnings per share on a reported basis for fiscal 2007 and second quarter 2007, and (ii) the companys estimated diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis for fiscal 2007 and second quarter 2007, should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur.  In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the forward-looking statements of the company contained in this press release are also subject to the following risks and uncertainties: Constellations ability to integrate Vincors business successfully and realize expected synergies, the continued strength of Vincors relationships with its employees, suppliers and customers; the accuracy of the bases for forecasts relating to Vincors business;
the company's restructuring and related charges, acquisition-related integration costs and purchase accounting adjustments associated with the Vincor integration plan vary materially from management's current estimates of these charges, costs and adjustments due to variations in anticipated headcount reductions, contract terminations, and costs of the implementation of the integration plan
; the company achieving all of the expected cost savings from its Vincor integration plan described in this news release and from its global wine restructuring plan announced in February 2006 due to, with respect to either or both these plans, lower than anticipated reductions in headcount or other expenses, or a delay or greater than anticipated costs in their implementation; the company achieving certain sales projections and meeting certain cost targets; wholesalers and retailers may give higher priority to products of the companys competitors; raw material supply, production or shipment difficulties could adversely affect the companys ability to supply its customers; increased competitive activities in the form of pricing, advertising and promotions could adversely impact consumer demand for the companys products and/or result in higher than expected selling, general and administrative expenses; a general decline in alcohol consumption; increases in excise and other taxes on beverage alcohol products; governmental bodies may increase tax rates; proportionately, the companys taxable income may be higher than expected in jurisdictions with higher tax rates; and changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. 
 
          For additional information about risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect the companys forward-looking statements, please refer to the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Feb. 28, 2006, which contain a discussion of additional factors that may affect Constellations business.  The factors discussed in these reports could cause actual future performance to differ from current expectations.
 
 
 
 


