FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20060629161621.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Item 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
          On June 29, 2006, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation, issued a press release (the "release") announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the first fiscal quarter ended as of May 31, 2006.  A copy of the release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.  The projections constituting the guidance included in the release involve risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at this time and, therefore, actual results may vary materially from these forecasts. In this regard, see the information included in the release under the caption "Forward-Looking Statements."
          The information in the release and in this Item 2.02 section is "furnished" and not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Such information may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references such information.
          The release contains non-GAAP financial measures; in the release these are referred to as "comparable" measures or "constant currency."  For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrant's historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented.  In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
          Comparable measures are provided because management uses this information in evaluating the results of the continuing operations of the Company and in internal goal setting.  In addition, the Company believes this information provides investors a better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.  As such, the following items, when appropriate, are excluded from comparable results:  the flow through of adverse grape cost associated with the acquisition of The Robert Mondavi Corporation ("Robert Mondavi"); the flow through of inventory step-up associated with acquisitions and investments in equity method investees; accelerated depreciation costs in connection with certain restructuring activities; acquisition-related integration costs associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition; restructuring and related charges and other costs associated with the Company's realignment of business operations within the Company's wine segment, the Robert Mondavi acquisition and the worldwide wine reorganization and program to consolidate certain west coast production processes in the U.S.; the loss on the sale of the Company's branded water business; gain on change in fair value of derivative instrument entered into to hedge the U.S. dollar cost of a foreign currency denominated acquisition and related payment of certain outstanding indebtedness; due diligence costs associated with the Company's evaluation of a potential offer for Allied Domecq; and the income tax adjustment in connection with the reversal of an income tax accrual related to the completion of various income tax examinations are excluded from comparable results.
          Constant currency measures, which exclude the impact of year over year currency exchange rate fluctuations, are provided because management believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.
Item 7.01.     Regulation FD Disclosure.
          On June 29, 2006, The Company issued a press release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
          The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including  the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD.  This information is "furnished" and not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
17
 Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR), a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol, today reported record first quarter net sales of $1.2 billion for the quarter ended May 31, 2006 ("first quarter 2007"), up five percent over prior year, or seven percent on a constant currency basis.  Branded business net sales grew eight percent, or nine percent on a constant currency basis, driven by imported beers and branded wine in North America.
          FAIRPORT, N.Y., June 29, 2006
          "We sprinted out of the starting gate this year with solid performance in our branded businesses," said Richard Sands, Constellation Brands chairman and chief executive officer.  "These results demonstrate the strength of our unsurpassed portfolio breadth, geographic diversity, distribution scale and innovation," continued Sands.  "With Vincor joining the Constellation family, Canada becomes our fifth core market and one which complements our existing geographic diversity while providing additional growth potential from a very stable and profitable market."
(in millions, except per share data)
First Quarter 2007 Financial Highlights*
(in millions)
First Quarter 2007 Net Sales Highlights*
Net Sales Commentary
          Double-digit net sales growth of branded wine for North America (primarily in the U.S.), drove an overall six percent increase in branded wine net sales on a constant currency basis. 
          "We're meeting consumer wine expectations around the world through a combination of new product introductions, innovations in wine and packaging and line and varietal extensions resulting from our extensive base of consumer, distributor and retailer insights," stated Sands.  "Recently introduced wines including Twin Fin, Monkey Bay, Four Emus and 3 blind moose, have captured the imagination and sense of adventure within consumers and illustrate a desire on their part to try new and different wines with brand appeal, while varietal extensions such as Woodbridge Pinot Noir allow us to build on the momentum and strength of established brands to satisfy consumer demand for a greater variety of wines from around the world."
          Net sales of branded wine for Europe and for Australia/New Zealand declined in the first quarter.  Constellation is leveraging its strong leadership position in these markets to grow market share over the long-term and is focusing on opportunities to maximize profitability.
          Net sales of the company's wholesale and other business increased slightly on a constant currency basis, including a slight increase in U.K. wholesale net sales.
          The double-digit increase in imported beers net sales is primarily due to volume growth across Constellation's Mexican beer portfolio, reflecting continued robust consumer demand and strong shipments in advance of the key summer selling season.  "The import and craft beer businesses continue to be industry growth drivers in the U.S.," stated Sands.  "We have the right brands, in the right market, at the right time to maximize future growth potential."
          Total spirits net sales decreased three percent for the first quarter.  Investments behind the company's premium spirits brands, including Meukow Cognac, Effen Vodka, Cocktails by Jenn, Ridgemont Reserve 1792 Bourbon, the 99 cordials line and Black Velvet Canadian Whisky, contributed to a three percent increase in branded spirits, which was more than offset by a 23 percent decrease in contract production services.
          "We are engaged in a long-term premium spirits portfolio brand-building effort illustrated by the addition of six new brands in the past 18 months, and the current rollout of the black cherry flavor 99 schnapps," explained Sands.  "We will continue to look for additional opportunities to expand our premium spirits business while maintaining our leadership role in value spirits."
Operating Income, Net Income, Diluted EPS Commentary
          The company incurred $3.6 million of stock-based compensation expense ("stock compensation expense") related to the company's March 1, 2006 adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS 123(R)").
          Wines segment operating margin declined 20 basis points due to the aforementioned stock compensation expense and an increase in duty costs in the U.K. at the end of March.
          Beers and Spirits segment operating margin declined 80 basis points for the quarter due primarily to higher transportation costs for the company's imported beers, overall product mix within the segment, and the aforementioned stock compensation expense. 
          As previously announced, Constellation entered into a foreign currency forward contract in connection with the acquisition of Vincor (see discussion below) to fix the U.S. dollar cost of the acquisition and payment of certain outstanding indebtedness.  The May 31, 2006 mark-to-market adjustment of the forward contract resulted in a first quarter pre-tax gain of $52.5 million.  The company also recorded a pre-tax loss of $14.1 million on the previously announced divestiture of its Strathmore water business.  The diluted EPS impacts of the aforementioned items were a gain of $0.14 and a loss of $0.07, respectively.
          The reported effective tax rate for first quarter 2007 was 41.8 percent compared with 17.7 percent for first quarter 2006.  The comparable basis effective tax rate was 36.0 percent for first quarter 2007 versus 35.6 percent for the prior year period.
Vincor Acquisition
          As previously announced, on June 5, 2006, Constellation completed the acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Vincor International Inc. ("Vincor") for C$1.227 billion.  The total transaction value was C$1.58 billion (USD $1.44 billion), which included Vincor's net debt of C$344 million and Constellation's estimated transaction fees of approximately C$13 million.
Summary
          "We're confident in our ability to deliver solid EPS growth for the year on a comparable basis, despite comparison challenges for stock compensation expense, increased U.K. duty, interest and taxes that we planned at the outset of the year," said Sands.  "We are going to continue to build upon our leadership position in beverage alcohol and complement our organic growth with strategic acquisitions, improve our return on invested capital and create value."
Outlook
          The table below sets forth management's current diluted earnings per share expectations compared to actual results both on a reported basis and a comparable basis for the periods presented.  For comparison purposes, the table also provides actual comparable basis diluted earnings per share, including pro forma stock compensation expense, as though the company had adopted SFAS 123(R) for the periods presented.  All amounts presented in the table exclude the impact of the Vincor acquisition discussed above.
          The development of integration plans, purchase accounting estimates and other estimates, related to the Vincor acquisition is progressing on schedule.  Constellation expects to incur one-time cash and non-cash charges relating to the integration of Vincor into its business and during mid-July expects to announce integration plans for the Vincor acquisition, and update its fiscal 2007 guidance to reflect the impact of those plans.  The company continues to expect the total impact of the Vincor acquisition to be modestly accretive to comparable basis diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2007.  This accretion assumes approximately $75 million of incremental interest expense resulting from the approximately $1.44 billion increase in debt associated with the acquisition.
With respect to the table, reconciliations of reported information to comparable information and to comparable information, including pro forma stock compensation expense, are included in this news release.
          
Conference Call
          A conference call to discuss first quarter 2007 results and outlook for fiscal 2007 will be hosted by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard Sands and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Tom Summer on Thursday, June 29, 2006 at 5:00 p.m. (eastern).  The conference call can be accessed by dialing +973-935-8505 beginning 10 minutes prior to the start of the call.  A live listen-only webcast of the conference call, together with a copy of this news release (including the attachments) and other financial information that may be discussed in the call will be available on the Internet at Constellation's Web site: www.cbrands.com under "Investors," prior to the call.
Explanations
          Reported basis ("reported") operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share are as reported under generally accepted accounting principles.  Operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis ("comparable"), exclude acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual items.  The company's measure of segment profitability excludes acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual items, which is consistent with the measure used by management to evaluate results.
          The company discusses additional non-GAAP measures in this news release, including constant currency net sales, adjusted EBIT, free cash flow and comparable basis diluted earnings per share, including pro forma stock compensation expense. 
          Tables reconciling non-GAAP measures, together with definitions of these measures and the reasons management uses these measures, are included in this news release.
About Constellation Brands
          Constellation Brands, Inc. is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol brands with a broad portfolio across the wine, spirits and imported beer categories.  Well-known brands in Constellation's portfolio include: Almaden, Arbor Mist, Vendange, Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Goundrey, Nobilo, Kim Crawford, Alice White, Ruffino, Kumala, Robert Mondavi Private Selection, Rex Goliath, Toasted Head, Blackstone, Ravenswood, Estancia, Franciscan Oakville Estate, Inniskillin, Jackson-Triggs, Simi, Robert Mondavi Winery, Stowells, Blackthorn, Black Velvet, Mr. Boston, Fleischmann's, Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy, Chi-Chi's, 99 Schnapps, Ridgemont Reserve 1792, Effen Vodka, Corona Extra, Corona Light, Pacifico, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, St. Pauli Girl, Tsingtao.  For additional information about Constellation Brands, as well as its product portfolio, visit the company's Web site at www.cbrands.com.
Forward-looking statements
          The statements made under the heading Outlook, as well as all other statements set forth in this press release which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
          Constellation may reiterate the estimates set forth above under the heading Outlook and elsewhere in this news release (collectively, the "Projections").  In addition, as noted above, during mid-July, the company expects to announce integration plans for the Vincor acquisition, and update its fiscal 2007 guidance to reflect the impact of those plans.  Prior to any such update, the public can continue to rely on the Projections as still being Constellation's current expectations on the matters covered, unless Constellation publishes a notice stating otherwise.  Following any such update, the Projections as set forth in this news release should not be considered to constitute the company's expectations.
          At the close of business on August 18, 2006, Constellation will observe a "quiet period" during which the Projections, as updated if applicable, should not be considered to constitute the company's expectations.  During the quiet period, the Projections, as updated if applicable, should be considered to be historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet period only and not subject to update by the company.
          The company's forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination, divestiture or financing that may be completed after the date of this release.  Any projections of future results of operations, and in particular, (i) the company's estimated diluted earnings per share on a reported basis for fiscal 2007 and second quarter 2007, and (ii) the company's estimated diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis for fiscal 2007 and second quarter 2007, should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur.  In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the forward-looking statements of the company contained in this press release are also subject to the following risks and uncertainties: the company achieving certain sales projections and meeting certain cost targets; wholesalers and retailers may give higher priority to products of the company's competitors; raw material supply, production or shipment difficulties could adversely affect the company's ability to supply its customers; increased competitive activities in the form of pricing, advertising and promotions could adversely impact consumer demand for the company's products and/or result in higher than expected selling, general and administrative expenses; a general decline in alcohol consumption; increases in excise and other taxes on beverage alcohol products; and changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.  In addition, the company may not achieve all of the expected cost savings related to its announced global wine restructuring due to lower than anticipated reductions in headcount or other expenses, or a delay or greater than anticipated costs in the implementation of the restructuring.  Also, risks and uncertainties include factors relating to Constellation's ability to integrate Vincor's business successfully and realize expected synergies, the continued strength of Vincor's relationships with its employees, suppliers and customers, and the accuracy of the bases for forecasts relating to Vincor's business.
          For additional information about risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect the company's forward-looking statements, please refer to the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Feb. 28, 2006, which contain a discussion of additional factors that may affect Constellation's business.  The factors discussed in these reports could cause actual future performance to differ from current expectations.
(in millions)
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in millions, except per share data)
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(in millions)
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in millions)
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
(in millions)
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries RECONCILIATION OF REPORTED AND CONSTANT CURRENCY NET SALES
Percentage increase (decrease) in constant currency net sales (which excludes the impact of year over year currency exchange rate fluctuations) are provided because management uses this information in monitoring and evaluating the underlying business trends of the continuing operations of the company.  In addition, the company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.
(in millions, except per share data)
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The company reports its financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP").  However, non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in the reconciliations below, are provided because management uses this information in evaluating the results of the continuing operations of the company and/or internal goal setting.  In addition, the company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.  See the table below for supplemental financial data and corresponding reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures for the three months ended May 31, 2006, and May 31, 2005.  Non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, the company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Please refer to the company's Web site at http://www.cbrands.com/CBI/investors.htm for more detailed description and further discussion of these non-GAAP financial measures.
 
 
(in millions, except per share data)
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries GUIDANCE - DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE AND FREE CASH FLOW RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)
The guidance below excludes the impact of the Vincor acquisition.
 
 
 
Free Cash Flow Guidance
Free cash flow, as defined in the reconciliation below, is considered a liquidity measure and is considered to provide useful information to investors about the amount of cash generated after capital expenditures and excess tax benefits, which can then be used, after required debt service and dividend payments, for other general corporate purposes.  A limitation of free cash flow is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period.  Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, cash flow from operating activities prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 


