FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20060404184052.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
ITEM 5.02
 
DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR PRINCIPAL OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF PRINCIPAL OFFICERS.
(d) 
   
On April 4, 2006, Barry A. Fromberg was elected to serve on the Board of Directors (Board) of Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation or the "Company"), effective immediately, to fill the vacancy created by the November 17, 2005 resignation of George Bresler.
 
Mr. Fromberg has not yet been named to any committee of the Board of Directors and at this time no determination has been made as to which, if any, committee of the Board of Directors he will be named. Mr. Fromberg, who is currently retired, had been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Dean Foods Company, a food and beverage company, from 1998 until April 1, 2006. He is a Certified Public Accountant. The Board considers Mr. Fromberg to be an independent director under applicable New York Stock Exchange requirements. As a Non-Management Director of the Board, Mr. Fromberg will receive the same standard compensation amounts paid to other non-management directors for service on the Board, which amounts have been disclosed previously in the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended August 31, 2005 filed by the Company with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on October 11, 2005. However, as Mr. Fromberg is being elected to fill the remaining four months of Mr. Breslers term, the amount of Mr. Frombergs annual retainer, annual option grant and restricted stock award has been prorated from the date of his election to the scheduled date of the Companys next annual meeting of stockholders.
 
There were no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Fromberg and any other person pursuant to which he was selected as a director, and there have been no transactions since the beginning of the Companys last fiscal year, or currently proposed, regarding Mr. Fromberg that are required to be disclosed by Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
ITEM 7.01
 
REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
On April 4, 2006 Constellation Brands, Inc. issued a press release announcing the election of Barry A. Fromberg as a member of Constellations Board of Directors. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information included in Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and the exhibit filed herewith is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section and may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 9.01
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
[LOGO]    
Constellation
 
 
 
 
 


