FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20070409170429.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
On April 4, 2007, the size of the Board of Directors of Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation or the Company), was expanded to eight (8) members, and on that date Peter H. Soderberg was elected to serve as a member of the Board of Directors, filling the additional Board seat. Also on that date he was appointed as a member of the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors.
Mr. Soderberg is President and Chief Executive Officer of Hillenbrand Industries, Inc., a public holding company for two major operating businesses providing products serving the health care and funeral services industries: Hill-Rom Company and Batesville Casket Company. He has served in this capacity since March 2006. Mr. Soderberg previously served from January 2000 to March 2006 as President and Chief Executive Officer of Welch Allyn, Inc., a privately held global technology and manufacturing company. Before that, he was Group Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Welch Allyns medical products business. Prior to joining Welch Allyn in 1993, Mr. Soderberg was employed by Johnson & Johnson at which he served in a variety of operations, marketing and management positions, primarily related to consumer products.
The Board considers Mr. Soderberg to be an independent director under applicable New York Stock Exchange requirements. As a non-management member of the Board, Mr. Soderberg will receive the same standard compensation paid to other non-management directors for service on the Board and its committees, which compensation has been disclosed previously in the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended August 31, 2006 filed by the Company with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on October 10, 2006. However, as Mr. Soderberg is being elected outside the annual meeting timeframe, the amount of his annual retainer, annual option grant and restricted stock award has been prorated from the date of his election to the scheduled date of the Companys next annual meeting of stockholders. Specifically, on April 4, 2007, Mr. Soderberg (i) became entitled to a prorated annual retainer in the amount of $20,000; (ii) was granted an option to purchase 1,120 shares of the Companys Class A Common Stock at an exercise price of $20.82 per share and an exercise period of October 4, 2007 through April 4, 2017; and (iii) received an award of 640 restricted shares of the Companys Class A Common Stock. Subject to applicable provisions in the award document, the restricted stock will vest on April 4, 2008. On April 4, 2007, which was the date of the option grant and the restricted stock award, the closing price of the Companys Class A Common Stock was $20.82 per share.
There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Soderberg and any other person pursuant to which he was selected either as a director or as a member of the Human Resources Committee, and there have been no transactions since the beginning of the Companys last fiscal year, or are currently proposed, regarding Mr. Soderberg that are required to be disclosed by Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
 
 
 
On April 9, 2007, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company) issued a news release announcing the election of Peter H. Soderberg as a member of the Companys Board of Directors.  A copy of the news release is furnished herewith as
Exhibit
99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
References to the Companys website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Company disclaims any such incorporation by reference. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD. The information in this Item 7.01 is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
[LOGO]    
Constellation
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
FAIRPORT, N.Y., April 9, 2007
- Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ; ASX: CBR), a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol, today announced that its board of directors authorized an increase in board positions from seven to eight, and approved Peter H. Soderberg, 60, to fill the new board seat effective April 4, 2007. Soderberg is currently president and chief executive officer of Batesville, Indiana-based Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. (NYSE: HB), a public holding company for two major operating businesses serving the healthcare and funeral services industries.
 
With tremendous manufacturing, marketing and operational experience in the consumer products, business-to-business and service industry sectors, Peter will be a valued addition to the Constellation Brands board and we look forward to the contributions he will make and the guidance he will provide, said Richard Sands, Constellation Brands chairman and chief executive officer. It has been our desire to increase the number of directors as the company grows, and we believe the time is right to add another voice to our strategic business analysis and decision making capabilities.
 
Prior to joining Hillenbrand in 2006, Soderberg was with privately held Welch Allyn Inc. from 1993 to 2006, rising to president and chief executive officer of the New York-based medical equipment manufacturer in 2000. Soderberg spent 23 years at Johnson & Johnson in various management positions, mostly
 
in consumer products, and he also founded a venture capital business, Princeton Entrepreneurial Resources. He earned a bachelors degree in engineering from Yale University. Soderberg is currently on the boards of the Advanced Medical Technology Association, the Syracuse Symphony Orchestra, Greatbatch, Inc., as well as Hillenbrand.
 
About Constellation Brands
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol brands with a broad portfolio across the wine, spirits and imported beer categories. Well-known brands in Constellations portfolio include: 
Almaden, Arbor Mist, Vendange, Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Goundrey, Nobilo, Kim Crawford, Alice White, Ruffino, Kumala, Robert Mondavi Private Selection, Rex Goliath, Toasted Head, Blackstone, Ravenswood, Estancia, Franciscan Oakville Estate, Inniskillin, Jackson-Triggs, Simi, Robert Mondavi Winery, Stowells, Blackthorn, Black Velvet, Mr. Boston, Fleischmanns, Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy, Chi-Chis, 99 Schnapps, Ridgemont Reserve 1792 and the Effen and SVEDKA vodka lines. Constellation Brands, through Crown Imports LLC, imports and markets Corona Extra, Corona Light, Pacifico, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, St. Pauli Girl and Tsingtao beers. For additional information about Constellation Brands, as well as its product portfolio, visit the companys Web site at
www.cbrands.com
.


