FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20070405082410.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
          On April 5, 2007, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation, issued a news release (the "release") announcing its financial condition and results of operations as of and for the fourth fiscal quarter and full fiscal year ended February 28, 2007.  A copy of the release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.  The projections constituting the guidance included in the release involve risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at this time and, therefore, actual results may vary materially from these forecasts. In this regard, see the information included in the release under the caption "Forward-Looking Statements."
          The information in the release and in this Item 2.02 section is "furnished" and not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Such information may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references such information.
          The release contains non-GAAP financial measures; in the release these are referred to as "comparable", "organic" or "constant currency" measures.  For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrant's historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented.  In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
          Comparable measures and organic net sales measures are provided because management uses this information in evaluating the results of the continuing operations of the Company and/or in internal goal setting.  In addition, the Company believes this information provides investors a better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.  As such, the following items, when appropriate, are excluded from comparable results:  the flow through of adverse grape cost associated with an acquisition; the flow through of inventory step-up associated with acquisitions and investments in equity method investees; accelerated depreciation costs in connection with certain restructuring activities; the write-down of inventory in connection with certain restructuring and/or integration activities; acquisition-related integration costs; restructuring and related charges and other costs; the write-off of deferred financing fees; the loss on the sale of the Company's branded water business; the gain on change in fair value of derivative instrument entered into to hedge the U.S. dollar cost of a foreign currency denominated acquisition and related payment of certain outstanding indebtedness; foreign currency losses on foreign denominated intercompany loan balances associated with an acquisition; due diligence costs associated with the Company's evaluation of a potential offer for Allied Domecq; and the income tax adjustment in connection with the reversal of an income tax accrual related to the completion of various income tax examinations.
The Company acquired Vincor International Inc. ("Vincor") on June 5, 2006.  In addition, the Company formed the Crown Imports LLC joint venture ("Crown Imports") effective January 2, 2007.  Accordingly, during the indicated periods organic net sales measures exclude the net sales of Vincor products or the net sales of the imported beers business, as applicable.
          Constant currency measures, which exclude the impact of year over year currency exchange rate fluctuations, are provided because management believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.
          On April 5, 2007, the Company issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
          References to the Company's website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Company disclaims any such incorporation by reference.  The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD.  This information is "furnished" and not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
          FAIRPORT, N.Y., April 5 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ; ASX: CBR), a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol, today reported record net sales of $5.2 billion for the fiscal year ended Feb. 28, 2007 ("fiscal 2007").  Net sales were up 13 percent over prior year, primarily due to the June 5, 2006, acquisition of Vincor International Inc. ("Vincor"), and from growth in the base business. 
          "While we had a solid year of organic net sales growth, our earnings performance was somewhat challenged by competitive conditions in the U.K. market.  However, the Constellation Brands business remains fundamentally sound and we were able to achieve several long-term strategic goals throughout the year, including the acquisition and integration of Vincor, formation of the Crown Imports beer joint venture, initiation of the SVEDKA Vodka acquisition and refining the organizational and operational structure of our wine business," said Richard Sands, Constellation Brands chairman and chief executive officer.  "To address the weakness experienced in the U.K., we are setting in motion initiatives to grow our business there in under-developed routes-to-market and channels while expanding our presence in other European markets.  We are also taking steps to maximize operating efficiencies and achieve increased profitability in the U.K.  We always take a long-term view and we are confident in our ability to capture growth opportunities and create value over the long term." 
          Fiscal 2007 Financial Highlights*           (in millions, except per share data)
          Fiscal 2007 Net Sales Highlights*           (in millions)
          Fiscal 2007 Net Sales Commentary
          Reported consolidated net sales growth of 13 percent reflects the benefits of the Vincor acquisition and solid organic growth of six percent on a constant currency basis, partially offset by the impact of reporting the Crown Imports joint venture under the equity method beginning Jan. 2, 2007.  As a result of the formation of the joint venture, fiscal 2007 included 10 months of imported beers net sales versus 12 months for fiscal 2006.  
          Branded wine net sales growth reflects the addition of Vincor and a four percent increase in branded wine organic net sales on a constant currency basis.  Strong organic growth of branded wine for North America was somewhat offset by a decrease for Europe.    
          Net sales of branded wine for North America increased 27 percent due to the Vincor acquisition and eight percent growth in the base business.  "The U.S. and Canadian wine markets remain vibrant as we continue to see strong consumer trends for trading up to higher margin premium and high-end brands," stated Sands.  
          Constellation Wines U.S. efforts to reduce distributor inventory levels, and increase supply chain efficiencies, are progressing as planned and the company anticipates it will complete most of this initiative in the first half of fiscal 2008.
          Branded wine net sales for Australia/New Zealand increased eight percent (10 percent on a constant currency basis), due to the Vincor acquisition and a flat base business (one percent increase on a constant currency basis). 
          Net sales of branded wine for Europe increased 11 percent (six percent on a constant currency basis) reflecting the addition of Vincor and a decrease of one percent in the base business (six percent decrease on a constant currency basis).  The decrease in Europe was primarily for the U.K., reflecting the impact of the large retailers benefiting from a highly competitive environment, particularly given the availability of low-cost bulk Australian wine.  The combination of these factors resulted in pricing pressures and made it difficult to recover additional costs including the annual U.K. duty increase.
          There are indications that the Australian bulk wine market is firming.  Ongoing drought and late spring frost in Australia could reduce the wine grape harvest by approximately 25 to 30 percent in 2007, based on company and certain industry estimates, versus the 2006 grape crush.  The effects of ongoing drought conditions are also expected to reduce the size of the 2008 harvest. 
          However, the company believes the competitive situation in the U.K. is unlikely to improve in the near term.  Constellation continues to focus on increasing its operating efficiencies and improving product mix.  In addition, the company also plans to increase marketing support behind higher margin offerings in the U.K. in fiscal 2008.
          Organic net sales for wholesale and other increased four percent on a constant currency basis, primarily from growth in the company's U.K. wholesale business.
          Crown Imports LLC ("Crown Imports"), the joint venture formed by Constellation Brands and Grupo Modelo to import and market beer in the U.S., commenced operations on Jan. 2, 2007.  Imported beers net sales were even with the prior year primarily resulting from Constellation Brands reporting Crown Imports under the equity method.
          "Formation of Crown Imports is an exciting development for the Grupo Modelo Mexican beer brands, which include Corona Extra, Corona Light, Pacifico, Negra Modelo and Modelo Especial," said Sands.  "This unrivaled Mexican beer portfolio is now being imported and marketed nationwide in the U.S. by a single enterprise for the first time since the brands were imported in 1978.  The portfolio had robust growth in the past, and with a single organization focused on these brands we believe the growth prospects will both continue and potentially be accentuated."
          The 15 percent increase in organic imported beers net sales was primarily due to volume growth for the Mexican beer portfolio.
          "In addition to the Mexican portfolio performing well in fiscal 2007, St. Pauli Girl and Tsingtao experienced growth and we believe these important brands will benefit from being part of Crown Imports," stated Sands. 
          Total spirits net sales increased one percent for fiscal 2007.  Investments behind the company's premium spirits brands helped drive a four percent increase in branded spirits, while contract production services decreased nine percent.
          "Like wine, spirits trends continue to show consumers trading up to premium brands," explained Sands.  "Because data points to the continuation of this trend, Constellation remains committed to increasing its participation in premium spirits.  We've been moving in that direction with the addition of Effen Vodka, Meukow Cognac, Cocktails by Jenn and creation of Ridgemont Reserve 1792 bourbon.  The acquisition of SVEDKA Vodka, with its 60 percent growth rate in 2006 to more than one million cases, provides scale and a marketing platform from which we look to leverage additional long-term premium spirits portfolio brand growth."
          Fiscal 2007 Operating Income, Net Income, Diluted EPS Commentary
          The company recognized $16.5 million of stock-based compensation expense ("stock compensation expense") for fiscal 2007 primarily related to the company's March 1, 2006, adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS 123(R)").  The recognition of stock compensation expense reduced operating income growth by approximately two percentage points on a reported and comparable basis.  The company also recorded $3.6 million for transaction-related costs and its share of start-up expenses associated with building out the infrastructure in the eastern U.S. for Crown Imports.  Operating income growth from the Vincor acquisition and base business was somewhat offset by the impact of reporting Crown Imports under the equity method.
          Wines segment operating margin remained even with the prior year.  This reflects synergies and mix improvement from the Vincor acquisition.  The benefit of these factors was offset by the impact of competitive U.K. market conditions that have made it difficult for the company to pass along the annual duty increase and the effect of lower U.K. sales on fixed cost absorption, as well as stock compensation expense.  Beers segment operating margin declined 110 basis points, primarily due to higher transportation costs, start-up expenses for Crown Imports and stock compensation expense.  Increased material costs and stock compensation expense resulted in spirits margins decreasing 270 basis points.
          Interest expense increased 42 percent to $268.7 million for fiscal 2007, primarily due to the financing of the Vincor acquisition and higher average interest rates.  The growth in equity investment earnings was primarily due to the start-up of Crown Imports in January 2007.  The reported effective tax rate for fiscal 2007 was 38.0 percent compared with 31.8 percent for fiscal 2006.  The comparable basis effective tax rate was 35.6 percent for fiscal 2007 versus 34.6 percent for fiscal 2006.
          Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2007 Financial Highlights*           (in millions, except per share data)
          Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2007 Net Sales Highlights*           (in millions)
          Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2007 Net Sales Commentary
          Branded wine net sales growth reflects the addition of Vincor and a seven percent increase in branded wine organic net sales on a constant currency basis.
          Net sales of branded wine for North America increased 31 percent due to the Vincor acquisition and seven percent growth in the base business.  Branded wine net sales for Australia/New Zealand increased 22 percent (18 percent on a constant currency basis), primarily due to Vincor and a six percent increase in the base business (three percent on a constant currency basis).
          Net sales of branded wine for Europe increased 38 percent (25 percent on a constant currency basis) reflecting the addition of Vincor and an increase of 20 percent in the base business (seven percent on a constant currency basis).  The increase in base business for Europe was primarily due to higher net sales of popular priced wine in mainland Europe.  In addition, increased volume for the U.K. was more than offset by the impact of lower net selling prices due to the challenging competitive market environment. 
          Organic net sales for wholesale and other increased four percent on a constant currency basis, primarily from growth for the company's U.K. wholesale business.
          Imported beers net sales decreased 56 percent as the company began reporting Crown Imports under the equity method of accounting in January 2007.  As a result, fourth quarter fiscal 2007 included one month of imported beers net sales versus three months in the prior year quarter.
          Total spirits net sales decreased three percent for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, reflecting a two percent decrease in branded spirits, while contract production services decreased six percent.
          Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2007 Operating Income, Net Income, Diluted EPS Commentary
          For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, operating income was impacted from reporting Crown Imports under the equity method.  For the quarter, the company recorded $1.1 million of costs primarily for its share of start-up and transition expenses related to Crown Imports.  The company recognized $4.3 million of stock-based compensation expense for the quarter, including $1.8 million for accelerated vesting of stock options for certain employees who moved to Crown Imports.
          Wines segment operating margin decreased 60 basis points, primarily reflecting the impact of the competitive U.K. market conditions, while higher material costs resulted in spirits margins decreasing 210 basis points.
          Interest expense increased 57 percent to $74.4 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 primarily due to the financing of the Vincor acquisition.  The start-up of Crown Imports drove the increase in equity investment earnings.  The reported effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 was 32.3 percent compared with 25.9 percent for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.  The comparable basis effective tax rate was 32.9 percent for fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 versus 24.8 percent for the prior year period.
Summary
          "While the U.K. and Australia challenges we faced in fiscal 2007 impacted  our overall results, our branded wine business turned in a solid performance in the U.S. and Canada, as did our imported beers, spirits and wholesale businesses," said Sands.  There were many good things that transpired in fiscal 2007, and we remain committed to achieving our long-term growth goals and increasing shareholder value.  We're focused on where we need to go as a company, and believe we have the resources to reach our destination and navigate our way through the challenges we may encounter," concluded Sands.         
Outlook
          The table below sets forth management's current diluted earnings per share expectations for fiscal year 2008 compared to fiscal year 2007 actual results, both on a reported basis and a comparable basis. 
          With respect to the table, reconciliations of reported information to comparable information are included in this news release.
          Constellation Brands Fiscal Year 2008           Diluted Earnings Per Share Outlook
          Full-year fiscal 2008 guidance includes the following assumptions, which exclude any impact from the previously announced $500 million share repurchase program:
          Conference Call
          A conference call to discuss fiscal 2007 results and outlook for fiscal 2008 will be hosted by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard Sands, President and Chief Operating Officer Rob Sands and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Tom Summer on Thursday, April 5, 2007 at 10:00 a.m. (eastern).  The conference call can be accessed by dialing +973-935-8505 beginning 10 minutes prior to the start of the call.  A live listen-only webcast of the conference call, together with a copy of this news release (including the attachments) and other financial information that may be discussed in the call will be available on the Internet at Constellation's Web site: www.cbrands.com under "Investors," prior to the call.
          Explanations
          Reported basis ("reported") operating income, equity in earnings of equity method investees, net income and diluted earnings per share are as reported under generally accepted accounting principles.  Operating income, equity in earnings of equity method investees, net income and diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis ("comparable"), exclude acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual items.  The company's measure of segment profitability excludes acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual items, which is consistent with the measure used by management to evaluate results.
          The company discusses additional non-GAAP measures in this news release, including constant currency net sales, organic net sales, comparable basis EBIT and free cash flow. 
          Tables reconciling non-GAAP measures, together with definitions of these measures and the reasons management uses these measures, are included in this news release.
          About Constellation Brands
          Constellation Brands, Inc. is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol brands with a broad portfolio across the wine, spirits and imported beer categories.  Well-known brands in Constellation's portfolio include: Almaden, Arbor Mist, Vendange, Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Goundrey, Nobilo, Kim Crawford, Alice White, Ruffino, Kumala, Robert Mondavi Private Selection, Rex Goliath, Toasted Head, Blackstone, Ravenswood, Estancia, Franciscan Oakville Estate, Inniskillin, Jackson-Triggs, Simi, Robert Mondavi Winery, Stowells, Blackthorn, Black Velvet, Mr. Boston, Fleischmann's, Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy, Chi-Chi's, 99 Schnapps, Ridgemont Reserve 1792 and the Effen and SVEDKA vodka lines.  Constellation Brands, through Crown Imports LLC, imports and markets Corona Extra, Corona Light, Pacifico, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, St. Pauli Girl and Tsingtao beers.  For additional information about Constellation Brands, as well as its product portfolio, visit the company's Web site at www.cbrands.com.
          Forward-Looking Statements
          The statements made under the heading Outlook, as well as all other statements set forth in this news release which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
          During the current quarter, Constellation may reiterate the estimates set forth above under the heading Outlook and elsewhere in this news release (collectively, the "Projections").  Prior to the start of the company's quiet period, which will begin at the close of business on May 17, 2007, the public can continue to rely on the Projections as still being Constellation's current expectations on the matters covered, unless Constellation publishes a notice stating otherwise. 
          Commencing at the close of business on May 17, 2007, Constellation will observe a "quiet period" during which the Projections should not be considered to constitute the company's expectations.  During the quiet period, the Projections should be considered to be historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet period only and not subject to update by the company.
          The company's forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination, divestiture, restructuring or other strategic business realignments, or financing that may be completed after the date of this release.  Any projections of future results of operations, and in particular, (i) the company's estimated diluted earnings per share on a reported basis for fiscal 2008, and (ii) the company's estimated diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis for fiscal 2008, should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur.  In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the forward-looking statements of the company contained in this news release are also subject to the following risks and uncertainties: factors relating to Constellation's ability to integrate Vincor's business, and the SVEDKA Vodka business, successfully and realize expected synergies associated with the Vincor acquisition; the continued strength of Vincor's relationships, and relationships of the SVEDKA Vodka business, with their respective employees, suppliers and customers; the accuracy of the bases for forecasts relating to Vincor's business and the SVEDKA Vodka business; final management determinations and independent appraisals may vary materially from current management estimates of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the Vincor acquisition and in the SVEDKA Vodka business acquisition; the company's restructuring and related charges, acquisition-related integration costs and purchase accounting adjustments associated with the Vincor integration plan (announced in July 2006) and the company's restructuring and related charges associated with the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan (announced in August 2006) and its global wine restructuring plan announced in February 2006 may vary materially from management's current estimates of these charges, costs and adjustments due to variations in one or more of anticipated headcount reductions, contract terminations, or costs of implementation of these plans; the company achieving all of the expected cost savings from its Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan, from its Vincor integration plan and from its global wine restructuring plan due to, with respect to any or all of these plans, lower than anticipated reductions in headcount or other expenses, or a delay or greater than anticipated costs in their implementation; the company may realize lower than expected proceeds from sale of assets identified for sale under the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan and consequently incurs a greater than expected loss on the sale of such assets; the company achieving certain sales projections and meeting certain cost targets; wholesalers and retailers may give higher priority to products of the company's competitors; raw material supply, production or shipment difficulties could adversely affect the company's ability to supply its customers; increased competitive activities in the form of pricing, advertising and promotions could adversely impact consumer demand for the company's products and/or result in higher than expected selling, general and administrative expenses; a general decline in alcohol consumption; increases in excise and other taxes on beverage alcohol products; governmental bodies may increase tax rates; proportionately, the company's taxable income may be higher than expected in jurisdictions with higher tax rates; and changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.  In addition, on Jan. 2, 2007, the company formed a joint venture with Grupo Modelo for the purpose of importing and marketing Modelo's Mexican beer portfolio into the United States and Guam.  Risks and uncertainties associated with this joint venture include, among others, the joint venture's ability to operate the business successfully, the joint venture's ability to develop appropriate standards, controls, procedures and policies for the growth and management of the joint venture and the strength of the joint venture's relationships with its employees, suppliers and customers.
          For additional information about risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect Constellation's forward-looking statements, please refer to Constellation's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Feb. 28, 2006, and Constellation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended Nov. 30, 2006, which contain a discussion of additional factors that may affect Constellation's business.  The factors discussed in these reports could cause actual future performance to differ from current expectations.
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in millions)
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (in millions, except per share data)
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in millions)
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries SEGMENT INFORMATION (in millions)
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION (in millions)
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries RECONCILIATION OF REPORTED, ORGANIC AND CONSTANT CURRENCY NET SALES (in millions)
As the Company acquired Vincor on June 5, 2006, and formed its imported beer joint venture on January 2, 2007, organic net sales for the respective periods are defined by the Company as reported net sales less net sales of Vincor products or net sales of imported beers, as appropriate. Organic net sales and percentage increase (decrease) in constant currency net sales (which excludes the impact of year over year currency exchange rate fluctuations) are provided because management uses this information in monitoring and evaluating the underlying business trends of the continuing operations of the company. In addition, the company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.
The company reports its financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP").  However, non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in the reconciliations below, are provided because management uses this information in evaluating the results of the continuing operations of the company and/or internal goal setting.  In addition, the company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.  See the tables below for supplemental financial data and corresponding reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures for the three months and years ended February 28, 2007, and February 28, 2006.  Non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, the company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Please refer to the company's Web site at http://www.cbrands.com/CBI/investors.htm for more detailed description and further discussion of these non-GAAP financial measures.
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries GUIDANCE - DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE AND FREE CASH FLOW RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)  (in millions, except per share data)
Free Cash Flow Guidance
Free cash flow, as defined in the reconciliation below, is considered a liquidity measure and is considered to provide useful information to investors about the amount of cash generated, which can then be used, after required debt service and dividend payments, for other general corporate purposes.  A limitation of free cash flow is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period.  Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, cash flow from operating activities prepared in accordance with GAAP.
SOURCE  Constellation Brands, Inc.           -0-                              04/05/2007           /CONTACT:  Media, Mike Martin, +1-585-218-3669, or Investor Relations, Bob Czudak, +1-585-218-3668, both of Constellation Brands, Inc./           /First Call Analyst: /           /FCMN Contact: mike.martin@cbrands.com /           /Web site:  http://www.cbrands.com/


