FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20070507170930.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
On May 6, 2007, Constellation Brands, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the Company or Constellation), entered into a Confirmation (the Repurchase Agreement) with Citibank, N.A. (Citibank) to effect an accelerated share repurchase of the Companys Class A common stock (Common Stock). Under the terms of the Repurchase Agreement, on May 8, 2007 the Company is obligated to pay Citibank a fixed purchase price of $421.1 million and Citibank is obligated to deliver to the Company 16.9 million shares of Common Stock. The purchase price for the shares will be paid with proceeds from borrowings under the Companys existing revolving credit facility.
At the end of a pricing period starting May 8, 2007 and scheduled to end on October 4, 2007 (which may be shortened in Citibanks discretion so that it ends during the Companys second fiscal quarter), Citibank will be obligated to deliver additional shares of Common Stock to the Company based generally on the volume weighted average price of the Common Stock during the pricing period minus a discount (the Settlement Price) unless the Settlement Price exceeds a negotiated amount. The calculation to determine the number of additional shares to which the Company is entitled also takes into account the difference between the Settlement Price and the average per share price paid by the Company for 1.0 million of the 3.5 million shares of Common Stock purchased by the Company in the open market prior to entering into the Repurchase Agreement. There is no maximum number of additional shares of Common Stock that the Company will be entitled to receive based on the application of the formula.
 
The Repurchase Agreement contains terms that provide for adjustments and early termination upon the occurrence of certain extraordinary and disruption events and contains other customary terms and conditions for agreements of this kind, including covenants and representations related to Rule 10b5-1 and Rule 10b-18. The Repurchase Agreement provides that the Company will not be obligated to make any payment to Citibank other than the initial purchase price or to return any shares of Common Stock received from Citibank pursuant to the Repurchase Agreement; however, the adjustment provisions in the Repurchase Agreement or an early termination may affect the number of additional shares of Common Stock that the Company is entitled to receive under the Repurchase Agreement.
Citibank is a lender under the Credit Agreement dated June 5, 2006, as amended, among the Company and the lenders party thereto, and Citibank and its affiliates have performed, and may in the future perform, various commercial banking, investment banking and other financial advisory services for Constellation and its subsidiaries for which they have received, and will receive, customary fees and expenses.
 
 
On May 7, 2007 the Company issued a news release announcing the accelerated share repurchase transaction contemplated by the Repurchase Agreement. The press release also provided information about, among other things, the diluted earnings per share outlook regarding the Companys fiscal year ending February 29, 2008 and certain related assumptions. A copy of the news release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
References to the Companys website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K, and the Company disclaims any such incorporation by reference. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD. The information in this Item 7.01 is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
[LOGO]    
Constellation
 
NEWS RELEASE          
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
Constellation Brands Announces Accelerated
Stock Buyback, Diluted EPS Guidance
Remains Unchanged
FAIRPORT, N.Y., May 7, 2007
 
--
Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ; ASX: CBR), a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol, today announced that it has entered into an accelerated share repurchase transaction with Citibank, N.A. to repurchase on May 8, 2007 a minimum of 16.9 million shares of its Class A common stock for $421.1 million. The company also announced that it has already repurchased 3.5 million shares of its Class A common stock since March 1, 2007, through open market purchases at a cost of approximately $78.9 million, or $22.55 per share. Together, these transactions will fully utilize the companys previously announced $500 million share repurchase authorization. All of the repurchased shares have or will become treasury shares.
 
 The specific number of shares to be repurchased in the transaction is generally based upon the volume-weighted average price of the companys Class A common stock during a specified calculation period.  The company will not be obligated to return any of the minimum shares or pay Citibank any additional cash. It is possible that Citibank could deliver an additional number of shares before the scheduled October 2007 end of the specified calculation period.  In connection with the share repurchase transaction, in addition to purchases of the company's Class A common stock, Citibank
   
 
 
may engage in certain hedging activities with respect to the company's Class A common stock in order to manage its exposure under the transaction. More information about the transaction can be found in Constellations Current Report on Form 8-K that will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
 
The purchase price for shares repurchased in the accelerated share repurchase transaction and in the open market has been or will be paid with proceeds from borrowings under the companys existing revolving credit facility.
 
We believe this accelerated share repurchase transaction demonstrates our strong commitment to maximizing shareholder value and also aligns well with our stated objective of harvesting opportunities that enhance our long-term value creation goals, stated Constellation Brands Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard Sands.
 
Outlook
 
The table below sets forth managements current diluted earnings per share expectations for fiscal year 2008 both on a reported basis and a comparable basis.
 
Full-year fiscal 2008 guidance includes the following current assumptions, which include the impact from the $500 million share repurchase program:
 
 
 
 
Explanations
 
Diluted earnings per share on a reported basis (reported) are as reported under generally accepted accounting principles. Diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis (comparable) exclude acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual items. The company discusses free cash flow, which is an additional non-GAAP measure in this news release. Tables reconciling reported information to comparable information along with other non-GAAP measures, together with definitions of these measures and the reasons management uses these measures, are included in this news release.
About Constellation Brands
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol brands with a broad portfolio across the wine, spirits and imported beer categories. Well-known brands in Constellation's portfolio include: Almaden, Arbor Mist, Vendange, Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Goundrey, Nobilo, Kim Crawford, Alice White, Ruffino, Kumala, Robert Mondavi Private Selection, Rex Goliath, Toasted Head, Blackstone, Ravenswood, Estancia, Franciscan Oakville Estate, Inniskillin, Jackson-Triggs, Simi, Robert Mondavi Winery, Stowells, Blackthorn, Black Velvet, Mr. Boston, Fleischmann's, Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy, Chi-Chi's, 99 Schnapps, Ridgemont Reserve 1792 and the Effen and SVEDKA vodka lines. Constellation Brands, through Crown Imports LLC, imports and markets Corona Extra, Corona Light, Pacifico, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, St. Pauli Girl and Tsingtao beers. For additional information about Constellation Brands, as well as its product portfolio, visit the company's Web site at www.cbrands.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The statements set forth in this news release which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
 
During the current quarter, Constellation may reiterate the estimates set forth in this news release (collectively, the "Projections"). Prior to the start of the company's quiet period, which will begin at the close of business on May 17,
 
 
2007, the public can continue to rely on the Projections as still being Constellation's current expectations on the matters covered, unless Constellation publishes a notice stating otherwise.
 
Commencing at the close of business on May 17, 2007, Constellation will observe a "quiet period" during which the Projections should not be considered to constitute the company's expectations. During the quiet period, the Projections should be considered to be historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet period only and not subject to update by the company.
 
The company's forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination, divestiture, restructuring or other strategic business realignments, or financing that may be completed after the date of this release. Any projections of future results of operations, and in particular, (i) the company's estimated diluted earnings per share on a reported basis for fiscal 2008, and (ii) the company's estimated diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis for fiscal 2008, should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur. The company acquired Vincor International Inc. on June 5, 2006 and the SVEDKA Vodka brand and related business on March 19, 2007. In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the forward-looking statements of the company contained in this news release are also subject to the following risks and uncertainties: factors relating to Constellation's ability to integrate Vincor's business, and the SVEDKA Vodka business, successfully and realize expected synergies associated with the Vincor acquisition; the continued strength of Vincor's relationships, and relationships of the SVEDKA Vodka business, with their respective employees, suppliers and customers; the accuracy of the bases for forecasts relating to Vincor's business and the SVEDKA Vodka brand and related business; final management determinations and independent appraisals may vary materially from current management estimates of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the Vincor acquisition and in the SVEDKA Vodka business acquisition; the company's restructuring and related charges, acquisition- related integration costs and purchase accounting adjustments associated with the Vincor integration plan (announced in July 2006) and the company's restructuring and related charges associated with the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan (announced in August 2006) and its global wine restructuring plan announced in February 2006 may vary materially from management's current estimates of these charges, costs and adjustments due to variations in one or more of anticipated headcount reductions, contract terminations, or costs of implementation of these plans; the company achieving all of the expected cost savings from its Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan, from its Vincor integration plan and from its global wine restructuring plan due to, with respect to any or all of these plans, lower than anticipated reductions in headcount or other expenses, or a delay or greater than anticipated costs in their implementation; the company may realize lower than expected proceeds from sale of assets identified for sale under the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan and consequently incurs a greater than expected loss on the sale of such assets; the impact upon net sales and diluted earnings per share resulting from the decision to reduce distributor wine inventory levels varying from current expectations due to the actual levels of distributor wine inventory reductions;the company achieving certain sales projections and meeting certain cost targets; wholesalers and retailers may give higher priority to products of the company's competitors; raw material supply, production or shipment difficulties could adversely affect the company's ability to supply its customers; increased competitive activities in the form of pricing, advertising and promotions could adversely impact consumer demand for the company's products and/or result in higher than expected selling, general and administrative expenses; a general decline in alcohol consumption; increases in excise and other taxes on beverage alcohol products; governmental bodies may increase tax rates; proportionately, the company's taxable income may be higher than expected in jurisdictions with higher tax rates; and changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
 
 
In addition, on Jan. 2, 2007, the company formed the Crown Imports joint venture with Grupo Modelo S.A. de C.V. for the purpose of importing and marketing Modelo's Mexican beer portfolio into the United States and Guam, and on April 17, 2007, the company formed the Matthew Clark joint venture with Punch Taverns plc to own and operate the U.K. wholesale business formerly owned entirely by the company. Risks and uncertainties associated with these joint ventures include, among others, each joint venture's ability to operate the business successfully, each joint venture's ability to develop appropriate standards, controls, procedures and policies for the growth and management of such joint venture and the continued strength of each joint venture's relationships with, including without limitation, its employees, suppliers and customers. Additional risks and uncertainties associated with the Matthew Clark joint venture include factors relating to higher than expected formation and/or start-up costs for the joint venture, and the accuracy of the basis for the forecasts relating to the joint venture's business, including any capital investment in distribution infrastructure or the realization of any distribution efficiencies.
 
 
 
For additional information about risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect Constellation's forward-looking statements, please refer to Constellation's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Feb. 28, 2007, which contains a discussion of additional factors that may affect Constellation's business. The factors discussed in this report could cause actual future performance to differ from current expectations.
 
 
 
 
 


