FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20070511101222.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
On May 10, 2007, the Board of Directors of Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation or the Company), appointed Robert P. Ryder, age 47, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, effective as of May 15, 2007. Mr. Ryder previously served from 2005 to 2006 as Chief Administrative Officer of IMG, a sports marketing and media company. From 2002 to 2005, he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of American Greetings Corporation, a publicly traded, multi-national consumer products company. From 1989 to 2002, he held several management positions of increasing responsibility with PepsiCo, Inc. These included control, strategic planning, mergers and acquisitions and CFO positions serving at PepsiCos corporate headquarters and at its Frito-Lay International and Frito-Lay North America divisions. Mr. Ryder is a certified public accountant.
 
In connection with his employment with Constellation, Mr. Ryder will receive:
 
 
 
There were no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Ryder and any other person pursuant to which he was selected as an executive officer, and there have been no transactions since the beginning of the Companys last fiscal year, or are currently proposed, regarding Mr. Ryder that are required to be disclosed by Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Also in connection with Mr. Ryders appointment, as previously contemplated, Thomas S. Summer will retire on May 15, 2007, from the position Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer but will continue as an employee of the Company until the earlier of May 14, 2008 or an earlier date mutually agreed upon by the Company and Mr. Summer. The letter agreement setting forth terms and conditions of Mr. Summers retirement from the Company is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 24, 2006, filed October 25, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
On May 10, 2007, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company) issued a news release announcing the appointment of Robert P. Ryder as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. A copy of the news release is furnished herewith as
Exhibit
99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
References to the Companys website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Company disclaims any such incorporation by reference. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD. The information in this Item 7.01 is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
[LOGO]    
Constellation
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 


