FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20070628093922.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code
            
(585) 218-3600      
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
On June 27, 2007, the Board of Directors of Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company), determined that effective July 26, 2007, Robert Sands, age 49, will become Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Mr. Sands, who is currently President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, will retain the office of President. Richard Sands, who currently serves as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of the Company, will retain the office of Chairman of the Board. As a result of these changes, the Company will no longer have a Chief Operating Officer, the responsibilities of which will be divided among various members of the senior management team. Richard Sands and Robert Sands are each members of the Companys Board of Directors and are brothers.
Robert Sands joined the Company in 1986 and has served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company since December 2002. Previously, he served as Group President from April 2000 through December 2002, as Chief Executive Officer, International from December 1998 through April 2000, as Executive Vice President from October 1993 through April 2000, as General Counsel from June 1986 through May 2000, and as Vice President from June 1990 through October 1993.
Robert Sands does not have an employment contract with the Company. As Chief Executive Officer, his annual salary will increase to $1,050,000. His performance criteria and targets under the Companys 2008 Fiscal Year Award Program for Executive Officers under the Annual Management Incentive Plan remain unchanged.
There were no arrangements or understandings between Robert Sands and any other person pursuant to which he was selected as Chief Executive Officer, and there have been no transactions since the beginning of the Companys last fiscal year, or are currently proposed, regarding Mr. Sands that are required to be disclosed by Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K which have not already been disclosed.
On June 28, 2007, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company) issued a news release announcing that the Board of Directors of the Company has named Robert Sands Chief Executive Officer of the Company while retaining the office of President. Richard Sands, who currently serves as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, will retain the office of Chairman of the Board. These actions will be effective July 26, 2007. A copy of the news release is furnished herewith as
Exhibit
99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
References to the Companys website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Company disclaims any such incorporation by reference. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD. The information in this Item 7.01 is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
  
   

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
16
Rob Sands Named Constellation Brands CEO
Effective July 26; Richard Sands Remains Chairman
FAIRPORT, N.Y., June 28, 2007 --
Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR), a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol, today announced its board of directors has named Robert S. (Rob) Sands, 49, chief executive officer effective July 26, 2007. Richard Sands, 56, will remain active in the company as chairman of the board.
 
The board of directors of Constellation Brands has unanimously concurred that it is in the best interests of the company and its stockholders that Rob Sands succeed Richard Sands as the next chief executive officer, stated James A. Locke III, head of the boards governance committee. Robs 21 years with the company; his proven knowledge, experience and leadership abilities; established track record in having already served as Constellations general counsel, chief operating officer and president; collectively give the board full confidence in his capabilities to lead the company.
 
Rob Sands joined Constellation Brands in June 1986 as general counsel overseeing the companys legal affairs, with an emphasis on its acquisitions. In 1993 he was appointed executive vice president and general counsel and promoted to chief executive officer of Constellation International after the companys acquisition of the United Kingdoms Matthew Clark plc in 1998. From 2000 through most of 2002, he served as group president over both the U.K. operations and Canandaigua Wine Company. He was named president and chief operating officer for Constellation Brands In December 2002. He is a member of the companys board of directors and has a bachelors degree from Skidmore College and a law degree from Pace University. Prior to joining Constellation he was an attorney at a Rochester, N.Y., law firm.
 
 
 
 
 
 
After 28 years with the company, and the last 14 as chief executive officer, it is time for me to pass the CEO baton, and Rob is the right choice to maintain continuity in Constellations ongoing pursuit of True Growth and harvesting opportunities to improve return on invested capital, earnings and free cash flow, said Richard Sands, Constellation Brands chairman and chief executive officer. Robs focus will be to lead Constellation Brands to the next level of growth and value creation by maintaining the companys entrepreneurial spirit, decentralized structure, core values and long-term strategic vision. I will be available to provide guidance, although Rob will be running the company, something I firmly believe is the right structure to maximize the companys future growth potential.
 
Richard Sands joined Constellation Brands in August 1979, and subsequently served in various wine production, finance, sales and marketing roles before being named executive vice president in 1982. In May 1986 he was named president and chief operating officer, and was named chief executive officer in 1993. In September 1999 he was named chairman. He has a bachelors degree from the University of Vermont, in addition to masters and doctorate degrees in social psychology from the University of North Carolina.
 
Resulting from these changes, Keith Wilson, 56, has been promoted to the newly created position of chief administrative officer and he will report to Rob Sands, also effective July 26, 2007. Wilson, who is currently Constellations executive vice president and chief human resources officer, will be overseeing the companys global information technology, human resources and supply chain activities, in addition to having responsibility for the corporate communications and community relations group. Also effective on July 26, 2007, Jose Fernandez, 51, will be promoted to the new position of chief executive officer for Constellation Wines North America, which encompasses the companys Constellation Wines U.S. and Vincor Canada operations. He is currently chief executive officer for Constellation Wines U.S.
 
 
 
 
 
About Constellation Brands
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol in the wine, spirits and imported beer categories, with significant market presence in the U.S., Canada, U.K., Australia and New Zealand. Based in Fairport, N.Y., the company has more than 250 brands in its portfolio, sales in approximately 150 countries and operates approximately 60 wineries, distilleries and distribution facilities. It is the largest wine producer in the world; the largest wine company in the U.S. based upon sales dollar value, the largest wine company in the U.K., Australia and Canada; the second largest wine company in New Zealand; the largest beer importer and marketer in the U.S. through its Crown Imports joint venture with Mexicos Grupo Modelo; and the third largest spirits company in the U.S. Constellation Brands is an S&P 500 Index and Fortune 500 company. Major brands in the companys portfolio include Corona Extra, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky, the SVEDKA vodka line, Robert Mondavi wines, Ravenswood, Blackstone, Hardys, Banrock Station, Nobilo, Kim Crawford, Inniskillin, Jackson-Triggs and Arbor Mist.
To learn more about Constellation Brands and its product portfolio visit the companys Web site at www.cbrands.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


