FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20071120163235.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. ("Constellation" or the Company) is filing this Current Report on Form 8-K for the purpose of, among other things, incorporating the contents of this report into the Companys registration statements, including a Registration Statement on Form S-4 (the Form S-4 Registration Statement) and a Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to the Companys Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-136379) (together with the Form S-4 Registration Statement, the Form S-3 and Form S-4 Registration Statements) that the Company intends to file on or about the date hereof.
 
Financial Statements
 
As part of the Companys acquisition of Vincor International Inc. on June 5, 2006, the Company acquired Vincor International Partnership and Vincor Finance, LLC, and on March 19, 2007, the Company acquired ALCOFI INC.  By means of this Current Report on Form 8-K, the Company hereby files (a) the audited combined financial statements of Vincor International Partnership and its subsidiaries and Vincor Finance, LLC as of and for the year ended March 26, 2006, and (b) the audited consolidated financial statements of ALCOFI INC. and its subsidiaries as of and for the year ended December 31, 2006. Each of (i) Vincor International Partnership and its current subsidiaries; (ii) Vincor Finance, LLC; (iii) ALCOFI INC.; and (iv) Spirits Marque One LLC, a subsidiary of ALCOFI INC., are subsidiary guarantors under debt indentures to which the Company is a party and co-registrants on the Form S-3 and Form S-4 Registration Statements.  These financial statements are provided in accordance with Rule 3-10(g) of Regulation S-X in order that each of these co-registrants will be exempt from reporting requirements pursuant to Rule 12h-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
Amendment to Credit Agreement
 
On November 19, 2007, Constellation, certain of Constellations subsidiaries as guarantors and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as administrative agent, entered into a second amendment (the Amendment) to the Credit Agreement, dated as of June 5, 2006 (as previously amended, the Credit Agreement), among Constellation, as Borrower, the subsidiary guarantors party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and the financial institutions party thereto from time to time as lenders.  The Amendment clarifies certain provisions governing the application of proceeds from senior unsecured indebtedness under the Credit Agreement.  The Amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
AMENDMENT NO. 2 (this ) dated as of November 19, 2007 among CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC., the Subsidiary Guarantors referred to on the signature pages hereto and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., in its capacity as Administrative Agent pursuant to authority granted by the Required Lenders pursuant to Section 10.02 of the Credit Agreement referred to below.
Amendment
Constellation Brands, Inc., the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto, the Lenders party thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, are parties to a Credit Agreement dated as of June 5, 2006 and amended on February 23, 2007 (as modified and supplemented and in effect from time to time, the ).
Credit Agreement
The Borrower, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Administrative Agent, pursuant to authority granted by, and having obtained the consent of, Lenders party to the Credit Agreement constituting the Required Lenders, now wish to clarify certain provisions in the Credit Agreement, and accordingly, the parties hereto hereby agree to amend the Credit Agreement as follows:
Section 1.  .  Except as otherwise defined in this Amendment, terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein as defined therein.
Definitions
Section 2.  .  Subject to the satisfaction of the conditions precedent specified in Section 4 below, but effective as of the date hereof, the Credit Agreement shall be amended as follows:
Amendments
2.01.  .  References in the Credit Agreement (including references to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby) to this Agreement (and indirect references such as hereunder, hereby, herein and hereof) shall be deemed to be references to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.
References Generally
2.02.  .  Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement shall be amended by amending the following definition to read in its entirety as follows:
Definitions
 means:
Net Available Proceeds
 
(i)  in the case of any Disposition, the amount of Net Cash Payments received in connection with such Disposition;
 
(ii)  in the case of any Casualty Event, the aggregate amount of proceeds of insurance, condemnation awards and other compensation received by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in respect of such Casualty Event net of (A) expenses incurred by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in connection therewith and (B) contractually required repayments of Indebtedness (other than
 
 
Indebtedness to the Lenders hereunder) to the extent secured by a Lien on such Property and any income and transfer taxes payable by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in respect of such Casualty Event; and
 
(iii)  in the case of any Debt Incurrence, the aggregate amount of all cash received by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in respect thereof (net of expenses incurred by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in connection therewith) but excluding (i) in the case of any Senior Debt Incurrence or Subordinated Debt Incurrence, the first $700,000,000 of aggregate cash received by the Borrower therefrom at any time after the Effective Date and prior to June 1, 2007 and (ii) (without duplication) any Senior Debt Incurrence effected pursuant to Section 7.01(c)(ii) and not in reliance on the proviso of clause (A) thereof.
 
2.03.  .   Section 7.01(c)(ii)(A) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
Indebtedness
(A) the aggregate principal amount of such Senior Unsecured Indebtedness shall not exceed U.S. $750,000,000 and, after giving effect to the incurrence thereof, the Borrower shall be in compliance with the ratio set forth in  Section 7.10(a) (the determination of such ratio to be calculated as of the last day of the most recently-ended fiscal quarter of the Borrower under the assumption that such Senior Unsecured Indebtedness was issued at the beginning of the applicable calculation period), that the foregoing provisions of this clause (A) shall not apply to the extent that the Net Available Proceeds of such Senior Unsecured Indebtedness are applied to either (x) prepay Loans in accordance with Section 2.10(b)(iii) (or make another application specified in the proviso thereto, including to finance one or more Acquisitions as therein provided), or (y) refinance or pay at maturity Senior Unsecured Indebtedness (in accordance with Section 7.12);
pro
forma
provided
Section 3.  .  The Borrower represents and warrants to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent that (i) the representations and warranties made by the Borrower in Article IV of the Credit Agreement, and by each Obligor in the other Loan Documents to which it is a party (but as to such other Loan Documents, in all material respects), are true and complete on and as of the date hereof with the same force and effect as if made on and as of such date (or, if any such representation and warranty is expressly stated to have been made as of a specific date, as of such specific date), and as if each reference in said Article IV to this Agreement included reference to this Amendment and (ii) at the time of and immediately after giving effect to this Amendment, no Default has occurred and is continuing.
Representations and Warranties
Section 4.  .  The amendments set forth in Section 2 hereof shall become effective, as of the date hereof, upon the execution and delivery of this Amendment by the Borrower, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Administrative Agent.
Conditions Precedent
 
Section 5.  .  Except as herein provided, the Credit Agreement shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect.  This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same amendatory instrument and any of the parties hereto may execute this Amendment by signing any such counterpart.  This Amendment shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
Miscellaneous
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed and delivered as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 23.1
The Board of Directors
Constellation Brands, Inc.:
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (No. 333-136379) and Form S-8 (Nos. 33-26694, 33-56557, 333-88391, 333-57912, 333-68180, 333-132061 and 333-146849) of Constellation Brands, Inc. of our report dated November 19, 2007, with respect to the combined balance sheet of Vincor International Partnership and subsidiaries and Vincor Finance, LLC as of March 26, 2006, and the related combined statements of income, changes in owners equity, and cash flows for the year ended March 26, 2006, which report appears in the Form 8-K of Constellation Brands, Inc. dated November 20, 2007.
 
 
 
 
Rochester, New York
November 19, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 23.2
The Board of Directors
Constellation Brands, Inc.:
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (No. 333-136379) and Form S-8 (Nos. 33-26694, 33-56557, 333-88391, 333-57912, 333-68180, 333-132061 and 333-146849) of Constellation Brands, Inc. of our report dated November 19, 2007, with respect to the consolidated balance sheet of ALCOFI INC. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders equity, and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2006, which report appears in the Form 8-K of Constellation Brands, Inc. dated November 20, 2007.
 
 
 
 
Rochester, New York
November 19, 2007

Exhibit 99.1
The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Constellation Brands, Inc.:
We have audited the accompanying combined balance sheet of Vincor International Partnership and subsidiaries and Vincor Finance, LLC (the Company) as of March 26, 2006, and the related combined statements of income, changes in owners equity, and cash flows for the year then ended.  These combined financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these combined financial statements based on our audit.
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting.  Accordingly, we express no such opinion.  An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the combined financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the combined financial position of Vincor International Partnership and subsidiaries and Vincor Finance, LLC as of March 26, 2006 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the year then ended in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
 
 
 
 
Rochester, New York
November 19, 2007
 
 
 
The operations of Vincor International Partnership and subsidiaries and Vincor Finance, LLC (jointly referred to as the Company) primarily consist of the production, marketing and distribution of wines in the United States.  Vincor International Partnership is a general partnership formed under the Nevada Uniform Partnership Act with 99.9% of capital contributed by Vincor International Inc. (Vincor) and 0.1% by 3022374 Canada Inc., both of which are companies incorporated in Canada.  The subsidiaries of Vincor International Partnership include, among others, Vincor International II, LLC; Vincor Holdings, Inc.; R.H. Phillips, Inc. and The Hogue Cellars, Ltd.  Vincor Finance, LLC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vincor and has been formed as a limited liability company pursuant to the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act.  The combined financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.  The combined financial statements are presented for a 52-week fiscal year ended March 26, 2006 (Fiscal 2006).  Significant accounting policies adopted by the Company are as follows:
 
 
The combined financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries after elimination of significant intercompany balances and transactions.  The combined financial statements are presented on a combined basis because Vincor International Partnership and subsidiaries and Vincor Finance, LLC are under the common control of Vincor.
 
 
Sales are recognized when title passes to the customer, which is generally when the product is shipped.  Amounts billed to customers for shipping and handling are classified as sales.  Sales reflect reductions attributable to consideration given to customers in various customer incentive programs, including pricing discounts on single transactions, volume discounts, promotional and advertising allowances, coupons, and rebates.
 
 
Cash and cash investments are comprised of highly liquid investments with original maturities when purchased of three months or less.  Cash investments are carried at cost, which approximates market value.
 
 
 
Packaging materials and supplies are valued at the lower of cost or replacement cost.  Bulk wine and finished goods are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value.  Cost includes the cost of materials plus direct labor applied to the product and the applicable share of manufacturing overheads.  Cost is determined on a first-in, first-out basis.  The Company recognizes the benefit of non-discretionary rebates for achieving specified cumulative purchasing levels as a reduction of the cost of product sold, provided the rebate is probable, and can be reasonably estimated.
 
 
Fixed assets acquired are recorded at cost.  Asset retirement obligations, if any, are capitalized as part of the related assets and amortized into earnings over time, along with the increase in the recorded obligation to reflect passage of time.  Costs of maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred.  Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets of 30 years on buildings and storage tanks and up to 12 years on machinery and equipment.  Vineyard development costs are amortized over the lesser of 25 years or the lease term and commence at the earlier of six years from the initial capitalization of development costs or when 70% of normal annual production is reached. Vineyard development costs include expenses for vines, posts, irrigation, land preparation and other direct expenditures as well as a proportionate amount of vineyard operations costs incurred prior to achieving normal production.
 
 
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of business acquisitions over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired in such acquisitions.  The Company records identifiable intangible assets apart from goodwill.  Intangible assets mainly represent the amounts allocated to brand names.  Goodwill and intangible assets, which have been assessed as having an indefinite life, are not being amortized, but are tested for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired.  No instances of impairment were noted on the Companys goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for Fiscal 2006.
 
 
 
Other assets include deferred financing costs which are stated at cost, net of accumulated amortization, and are amortized on an effective interest basis over the term of the related debt.
 
 
The Company uses the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes.  Under the asset and liability method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled.  The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rate is recognized in income during the period that includes the date of enactment.
 
 
For domestic transactions made in foreign currencies, revenue and expenses are translated at rates in effect at the time of the transactions.  Foreign exchange gains and losses are included in income.  For Fiscal 2006, the Company recorded a net foreign exchange gain of $142.
 
 
 
Stock Option Plan
 
The Company has a stock option plan for employees.  Under the plan, options may be granted to purchase common shares of Vincor at a price that is not less than the market price on the date of the grant.  All of these options have a 10-year life and vest over four years (15%, 20%, 25% and 40% on the first, second, third and fourth anniversaries, respectively, following the date of grant).  To ensure that options are exercised only after the share performance of Vincor justifies the compensation, the options may not be exercised until after the closing price of the common shares, averaged over 21 consecutive trading days, exceeds the exercise price of the options by at least 25%.  In addition, for options issued on or after April 1, 2003, vested options may not be exercised until at least the sixth anniversary of the date of grant, except in the case of termination, resignation, retirement or death.
 
The Company applies the intrinsic value method described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 (APB No. 25), Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations in accounting for this plan.  In accordance with APB No. 25, the compensation cost for stock options is recognized in income based on the excess, if any, of the quoted market price of the stock at the grant date of the award or other measurement date over the amount an employee must pay to acquire the stock.  Options granted under the Companys stock option plan have an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant; therefore, no incremental compensation expense has been recognized for grants made to employees under the Companys stock option plan.  The Company utilizes the disclosure-only provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (SFAS No. 123), Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, as amended.
 
During Fiscal 2006, the Company granted 7,500 stock options under the plan at an exercise price of $28.16 and a fair value of $60, or $8.06 per stock option.  The fair value of the Company's stock option grant was estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions:  risk-free interest rate of 3.6%; expected dividend yield of 0%; expected life of 8 years; and expected volatility of 30%.  As of March 26, 2006, the Company had 22,500 stock options outstanding with exercise prices ranging from $24.90 to $28.16, a weighted average contractual life of 8 years and a weighted average exercise price of $26.58.
 
 
 
The following table illustrates the effect on net income for Fiscal 2006 as if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 to stock-based employee compensation:
 
 
 
 
The Company has granted Deferred Share Units of Vincor as an incentive measure for the senior management group.  These units vest only upon termination, retirement or death and are settled in cash.  Under the plan, 1,519 units were awarded during Fiscal 2006.  As of March 26, 2006, there were 3,516 units awarded and outstanding under the plan.  During Fiscal 2006, the Company recorded compensation credit of $35 with a corresponding decrease in a liability to Vincor.  This liability is adjusted each reporting period based on the change in the market price of Vincors common stock.
 
 
The Company has granted Restricted Share Units of Vincor as an incentive measure for the senior management group.  These units vest, based on the achievement of financial objectives including the growth of key brands, over a three-year period from the date of grant and are settled 50% in common stock of Vincor and 50% in cash at the fair market value on the vesting date.  There were 9,948 units granted during Fiscal 2006.  As of March 26, 2006, there were 21,323 units outstanding under the plan.  The compensation expense associated with the units awarded under the plan is recorded over the vesting period of the units and the achievement of financial objectives.  The related liability is adjusted each reporting period for the change in the market price of Vincor's common stock.  During Fiscal 2006, the Company recorded compensation credit of $90 with a corresponding decrease in a liability to Vincor.
 
 
 
Long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment, are depreciated or amortized over their useful lives.  The Company performs an impairment assessment of its long-lived assets held for use whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.  If the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposal of long-lived assets is less than their carrying values, these assets are considered to be impaired and an impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds their fair value.  No losses were recorded for Fiscal 2006.
 
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
 
The components of inventories as of March 26, 2006, are as follows:
 
 
The major components of property, plant and equipment as of March 26, 2006, are as follows:
 
 
 
 
The major components of other assets as of March 26, 2006, are as follows:
 
 
The major components of other accrued expenses and liabilities as of March 26, 2006, are as follows:
 
 
On July 30, 2004, the Company issued senior secured notes bearing a fixed rate of 6.2% with an aggregate principal amount of $100,000 to John Hancock Life Insurance Company and its affiliates.  The senior notes have an average life of nine years and are repayable based on an amortization schedule between September 1, 2009, and August 1, 2014.
 
The senior notes are secured against the accounts receivable, inventories and trademarks of Vincor and its subsidiaries in Canada.
 
Subsequent to March 26, 2006, the Company was acquired (see Note 12) and the full principal amount outstanding on the senior notes became due and payable as a result of the acquisition.  Accordingly, the full principal amount was repaid in June 2006.
 
Interest on long-term debt totalled $6,230 for Fiscal 2006.
 
 
The Company is the lessee of barrels held under capital leases expiring in various years through fiscal 2009.  Future minimum lease payments for assets held under capital leases are as follows for each of the years indicated:
 
 
Depreciation expense for assets held under capital leases was $4,666 for Fiscal 2006 and is included in depreciation expense.
 
 
 
The Company's consolidated effective income tax rate for Fiscal 2006 is as follows:
 
The income tax provision for Fiscal 2006 consists of the following:
 
 
 
The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities as of March 26, 2006 are as follows:
 
 
As of March 26, 2006, the Company did not have any federal carryforwards of operating loss.
 
 
Operating lease commitments
 
Step rent provisions, escalation clauses, capital improvement funding and other lease concessions, when present in the Companys leases, are taken into account in computing the minimum lease payments.  The minimum lease payments for the Companys operating leases are recognized on a straight-line basis over the minimum lease term.  Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating lease agreements for land, vineyards, buildings, retail store premises and equipment having initial or remaining terms of one year or more are as follows during the next five fiscal years and thereafter:
 
Rent expense was $1,885 for Fiscal 2006.
 
 
 
Grape grower commitments
 
A portion of the Company's current grape requirements are sourced through long-term contracts of varying lengths.  The estimated grape grower commitments based on contracted tons valued at market prices are as follows for the next five fiscal years and thereafter:
 
 
In October 2005, finished goods inventory with a book value of $2,377 was destroyed in a fire at a third party warehouse in the United States.  This warehouse was used by a large number of California wineries and by private collectors to store wine.  Inventory at this warehouse was fully insured to recover profits that would have been realized on the sale of the products subject to a deductible of $50.  The claim was settled and paid subsequent to March 26, 2006, for proceeds of $5,535, resulting in a gain of $3,158.
 
 
In the normal course of business, the Company purchases from and sells certain products to affiliated companies owned directly or indirectly by Vincor.  The Company believes that the prices at which these transactions are carried out are on terms comparable to those that would be available from unaffiliated third parties.
 
During Fiscal 2006, the Company had the following amounts of purchases and sales transactions with affiliated companies.
 
 
 
 
As of March 26, 2006, the Company had the following accounts receivable and accounts payable with affiliated companies.
 
 
The accounts receivable and accounts payable are not interest bearing.
 
In addition, as of March 26, 2006, the Company had loans receivable from Vincor and Vincor New Zealand Limited in the amounts of $25,400 and $6,531, respectively, that are recorded as a reduction to owners equity.  The loan to Vincor carries an interest rate of 2.3% and the loan to Vincor New Zealand Limited carries an interest rate of 8.0%.  Both of these loans are unsecured.  During Fiscal 2006, the Company recorded interest income of $612 on its loan to Vincor New Zealand Limited and $572 on its loan to Vincor.  As of March 26, 2006, the Company had accrued interest receivable of $331 with respect to these loans receivable from related parties.
 
The Company insured some of its risks with Vincor Insurance Limited, Barbados.  During Fiscal 2006, the Company incurred $921 of premiums related to these insurance policies.  The Company also claimed an amount of $200 from Vincor Insurance Limited, Barbados for a part of the casualty loss described in Note 10. This amount was received subsequent to March 26, 2006.
 
On August 25, 2000, as part of the acquisition of R.H. Phillips Inc., R.H. Phillips Inc. (a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company) entered into a grape purchase agreement with JK Vineyards, LLC, an entity controlled by John and Karl Giguiere, who were senior officers of R.H. Phillips Inc.  During Fiscal 2006, the Company purchased grapes valued at $2,474 from JK Vineyards, LLC.
 
 
On June 5, 2006, Constellation Brands, Inc. acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Vincor.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Constellation Brands, Inc.:
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of ALCOFI INC. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders equity, and cash flows for the year then ended.  These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting.  Accordingly, we express no such opinion.  An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of ALCOFI INC. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2006 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the year then ended in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
 
 
 
Rochester, New York
November 19, 2007
 
ALCOFI INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Description of business
Basis of accounting
Principles of consolidation
Cost method investments
Managements use of estimates
Revenue recognition
Cost of product sold
Operating expenses
Cash and cash equivalents
Allowance for doubtful accounts
Fair value of financial instruments
Inventories
Property, plant and equipment
Depreciation
Intangible asset
2.      RECENTLY ADOPTED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
Effective December 31, 2006, the Company adopted the Securities and Exchange Commissions Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108 (SAB No. 108), Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements.  SAB No. 108 addresses how the effects of prior year uncorrected misstatements should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements. SAB No. 108 requires companies to quantify misstatements using a balance sheet and income statement approach and to evaluate whether either approach results in quantifying an error that is material in light of relevant quantitative and qualitative factors. The initial adoption of SAB No. 108 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
Intangible asset consists of the following indefinite-lived intangible asset as of December 31, 2006:
The difference between the gross carrying amount and net carrying amount is attributable to accumulated amortization that was recorded prior to the Companys determination that the intangible asset has an indefinite life.
5.      OTHER ASSETS
The major components of other assets are as follows as of December 31, 2006:
In November 2002, the Company purchased 333 shares, representing a 9.99% interest, in P&J Production AB (P&J), a vodka manufacturer in Sweden.  The Company does not have a controlling interest in P&J or exert any managerial control.  Accordingly, the Company accounts for the investment in P&J under the cost method.
6.       ACCRUED EXPENSES
The major components of accrued expenses are as follows as of December 31, 2006:
7.      BORROWINGS
The Company maintains a revolving promissory note with Wachovia Bank, National Association. This note has an available maximum principal amount of $2,500,000 to be used for working capital purposes, with a $500,000 subfacility for the issuance of standby letters of credit.  The rate of interest on borrowings under this note is the lenders prime rate (8.25% as of December 31, 2006) plus 0.5%.  There were no amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2006.
The Company is also subject to certain covenants that are contained in the Revolving Credit and Security Agreement, including those restricting the incurrence of additional indebtedness (including guarantees of indebtedness), additional liens, the declaration or payment of dividends, the making of certain investments, a change in business, disposition or acquisition of property, and transactions with affiliates, in each case subject to numerous conditions, exceptions and thresholds.  The financial covenants are limited to a total liabilities to tangible net worth ratio.
Subsequent to year-end, and in connection with the Companys acquisition by Constellation Brands, Inc., this note was closed on March 19, 2007.  See Note 14 for additional disclosure.
8.      INCOME TAXES
The provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2006, consists of the following:
The Companys effective tax rate is different than what would be expected if federal statutory rates were applied to income from operations primarily because of expenses deductible for financial statement purposes that are not deductible for tax purposes and expenses deductible for tax purposes that are not deductible for financial statement purposes.
The amounts recorded for deferred tax liabilities primarily relate to the investment in SMO.
A reconciliation of the total provision for income taxes to the amount computed by applying the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate to income before income taxes and minority interest is as follows:
9.      EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN
The Company maintains a Simple IRA plan (the Plan) covering substantially all U.S. employees.  The Plan permits eligible employees to defer a portion of their compensation (as defined in the Plan) on a pretax basis.  Participants may defer up to 100% of their compensation for the year, subject to applicable IRS regulations.  The Company makes a matching contribution of 100% of the first 3% of compensation that each participant defers.  Company contributions under the Plan were $53,359 for the year ended December 31, 2006.
10.    COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
The Company entered into a noncancellable operating lease agreement with an unrelated party commencing January 1, 2005, and expiring December 31, 2014, for the rental of office space.  Future payments under this lease are as follows during the next five fiscal years and thereafter:
Gross rental expense was $268,556 for the year ended December 31, 2006.  Amounts received from the Companys subtenant totaled $92,244 for the year ended December 31, 2006.  Accordingly, net rental expense totaled $176,312 for the year ended December 31, 2006.
11.    STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY
The Company has one class of common stock.  As of December 31, 2006, there were 200 shares of common stock authorized with 20 shares issued and outstanding.  All of the issued and outstanding shares are held by ALCO Finance S.A.  Each share has no par value and a stated price of one dollar ($1.00).
12.    SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS AND CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK
Sales to the five largest customers represented 44.7% of the Companys sales for the year ended December 31, 2006.  The Companys largest customer, Eber Bros. Wine & Liquor Corp., was responsible for 16.5% of sales during the year.  Accounts receivable from the five largest customers represented 47.0% of the Companys total accounts receivable balance as of December 31, 2006.  Accounts receivable from the Companys largest customer represented 21.1% of the Companys total accounts receivable as of December 31, 2006.
Sales to the Companys five largest customers are expected to continue to represent a significant portion of the Companys revenues.  The Companys arrangements with certain of its customers may, generally, be terminated by either party with prior notice. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers financial position, and management of the Company is of the opinion that any risk of significant loss is reduced due to the diversity of customers and geographic sales area.
13.    RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
14.    SUBSEQUENT EVENT
15.    SUBSIDIARY GUARANTOR
Subsequent to December 31, 2006, the Company was acquired by Constellation (see Note 14).  Constellations outstanding senior notes and senior subordinated notes are guaranteed, jointly and severally, by ALCOFI INC. and SMO.  The following information presents the condensed consolidating financial statements of the guarantors and nonguarantor of Constellations outstanding senior notes and senior subordinated notes, in accordance with Rule 3-10(g) of SEC Regulation S-X.
Separate financial statements for the guarantors are not presented because the Company has determined that such financial statements would not be material to investors.  The accounting policies of the guarantors and the nonguarantor are the same as those described for the Company in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Note 1 and include the recently adopted accounting pronouncements described in Note 2.  Subsequent to Constellations acquisition of the Company, there are no restrictions on the ability of the guarantors to transfer funds to Constellation in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances.
 


