FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20071218135009.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
On December 17, 2007, Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, announcing the completion of Constellations acquisition of the Fortune Brands, Inc. wine business in the United States.
References to Constellations website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference.  The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD.  This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
On December 17, 2007, Constellation completed its previously announced acquisition of Beam Wine Estates, Inc. (BWE) from a wholly-owned subsidiary of Fortune Brands, Inc.  The acquisition was completed through Constellations wholly-owned subsidiary Constellation Wines U.S., Inc. (CWUS), pursuant to the terms of a Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of November 9, 2007 by and between Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. and Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Stock Purchase Agreement).  BWE owns all of the outstanding stock of its subsidiaries: Atlas Peak Vineyards, Inc., Buena Vista Winery, Inc., Clos du Bois Wines, Inc., Gary Farrell Wines, Inc. and Peak Wines International, Inc.  As a result of this acquisition, Constellation has acquired the United States wine portfolio of Fortune Brands, Inc., including certain wineries, vineyards or interests therein in the State of California.
Constellation acquired BWE, together with BWEs subsidiaries, on a cash and debt-free basis for approximately $885 million in cash, subject to certain purchase price adjustments.  Constellation financed the acquisition using net proceeds from the previously reported sale on December 5, 2007 of $500 million aggregate principal amount of its 8 3/8% Senior Notes due 2014 and borrowings under the revolving portion of Constellations Credit Agreement dated as of June 5, 2006, as amended.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
[LOGO]     Constellation
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR), today announced it has completed the acquisition of the Fortune Brands, Inc. U.S. wine portfolio for a purchase price of $885 million, subject to closing adjustments.  The acquisition includes fine wines such as Clos du Bois, Wild Horse, Geyser Peak and others, as well as five wineries and vineyards in some of Californias finest wine growing regions, and an experienced team of wine business professionals.
FAIRPORT, N.Y., Dec. 17, 2007 
This acquisition is another significant step to expand our excellent portfolio of fine wine in the fast-growing super-premium and luxury segments of the U.S. market, stated Rob Sands, Constellation Brands president and chief executive officer.  We are pleased that we have been able to take advantage of this opportunity to strengthen our position as the premium wine leader in the U.S. marketplace and improve our ability to meet wine trade-up consumer trends.
In connection with this acquisition, Constellation financed the transaction using net proceeds from its Dec. 5, 2007, sale of $500 million 8 3/8% Senior Notes due 2014 together with borrowings under the revolving portion of the companys senior credit facility.  Constellation is formulating an integration plan for the acquired assets and will announce details when the plan is finalized.
About Constellation Brands
Constellation Brands, Inc. is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol in the wine, spirits and imported beer categories, with significant market presence in the U.S., Canada, U.K., Australia and New Zealand.  Based in Fairport, N.Y., the company has more than 250 brands in its portfolio, sales in approximately 150 countries and operates approximately 60 wineries, distilleries and distribution facilities.  It is the largest wine producer in the world; the largest wine company in the U.S. based upon sales dollar value, the largest wine company in the U.K., Australia and Canada; the second largest wine company in New Zealand; the largest beer importer and marketer in the U.S. through its Crown Imports joint venture with Mexicos Grupo Modelo; and the third largest spirits company in the U.S.  Constellation Brands is an S&P 500 Index and Fortune 500 company.  Major brands in the companys portfolio include Corona Extra, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky, the SVEDKA vodka line, Robert Mondavi wines, Ravenswood, Blackstone, Hardys, Banrock Station, Nobilo, Kim Crawford, Inniskillin, Jackson-Triggs and Arbor Mist.  To learn more about Constellation Brands and its product portfolio visit the companys Web site at .
www.cbrands.com
 


