FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20071212152243.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
To the extent that Item 3.03 of Form 8-K may be applicable, the information set forth under Item 5.03 below is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On December 6, 2007, the stockholders of Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company) approved an amendment and restatement of the Companys Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan (the Plan).  The amendments effected by the amendment and restatement of the Plan (the Plan Amendments) were implemented primarily to address potentially adverse tax consequences to the holders of certain options to purchase Class A Common Stock of the Company, $.01 par value per share (Class A Stock), who are subject to U.S. taxation.
 
Under a possible interpretation of new regulations adopted by the Internal Revenue Service under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, certain characteristics of the Class A Stock could cause stock options granted with respect to Class A Stock on or after April 10, 2007 to be subject to the adverse tax treatment imposed by Section 409A.  In order to enable the Company to continue to use stock options in its compensation program while maintaining the U.S. tax treatment that applied to options prior to the new regulations, the Company has created a new class of common stock, Class 1 Common Stock, $.01 par value per share (Class 1 Stock), that is designed to satisfy the criteria specified in the new tax regulations and has amended the Plan to permit awards under the Plan to be granted with respect to the new Class 1 Stock.
 
The Plan Amendments, which were approved by the Companys Board of Directors prior to submission to a vote of the stockholders, (i) permit awards to be granted under the Plan with respect to the Companys newly created Class 1 Stock (described in detail under Item 5.03 below), (ii) clarify that an amendment to an outstanding stock option to purchase shares of Class A Stock so that it becomes a stock option to purchase shares of Class 1 Stock will not constitute a grant of a new stock option for purposes of the provision in the Plan prohibiting the grant of stock options with exercise prices less than the fair market value of the underlying shares on the date of grant, and (iii) make certain other ministerial or conforming amendments to the provisions of the Plan.  The Plan Amendments did not affect the underlying economics of the Companys stock option program and did not increase the aggregate number of shares available for granting awards under the Plan.  The Plan, as amended and restated, is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The Company intends to amend the outstanding stock options granted by the Company on or after April 10, 2007 to individuals subject to U.S. taxation so that they relate to Class 1 Stock instead of Class A Stock.  These amendments are intended to prevent such stock options from becoming subject to the adverse tax treatment under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code that might otherwise apply as a result of the new Internal Revenue Service regulations.  As participants in the Plan, the directors and executive officers of the Company, including the Companys principal officers and certain of its named executive officers, hold options that are expected to be amended.  The form of the agreement that is intended to be used to amend these outstanding stock options is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The Companys practice is to document stock options granted under the Plan by providing to the recipient of the stock option a Terms and Conditions Memorandum that describes the terms of the stock option.  The forms of the Terms and Conditions Memorandums that are intended to be
 
 
used with respect to stock options to purchase shares of Class 1 Stock are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.3, 99.4 and 99.5 and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Restated Certificate of Incorporation
 
On December 6, 2007, the Company filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware a Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the Restated Certificate) which created a new class of common stock consisting of 15,000,000 shares of Class 1 Common Stock.  The Restated Certificate, which was approved by the Companys stockholders on December 6, 2007, became effective upon filing.  The Restated Certificate is filed herewith as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Prior to effectiveness of the Restated Certificate, the Company was authorized to issue an aggregate of 346,000,000 shares, consisting of 315,000,000 shares of Class A Stock; 30,000,000 shares of Class B Common Stock, $.01 par value per share (Class B Stock); and 1,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, $.01 par value per share.  Under the Restated Certificate, the Company has also authorized 15,000,000 shares of Class 1 Stock, thereby increasing the Companys total authorized number of shares to 361,000,000 shares and its total authorized number of shares of common stock to 360,000,000 shares.
 
The shares of Class 1 Stock do not generally have voting rights.  Holders of Class 1 Stock will not be entitled to vote except that such holders will be entitled to vote as a separate class on matters with respect to which a separate class vote of holders of Class 1 Stock is required by law and will be entitled to vote with respect to any increase or decrease in the number of shares of Class 1 Stock as a single class with the holders of Class A Stock and Class B Stock (in which case the holders of Class 1 Stock and Class A Stock will be entitled to one (1) vote per share and the holders of Class B Stock will be entitled to ten (10) votes per share).
The shares of Class 1 Stock will not have any preference as to dividends, but may participate in any dividend when and if declared by the Companys Board of Directors.  Cash dividends may be declared and paid with respect to Class A Stock without corresponding cash dividends being declared and paid with respect to Class 1 Stock, and if cash dividends are declared and paid on Class 1 Stock then cash dividends must be declared and paid on Class A Stock in an amount that is at least ten percent greater than the cash dividends declared and paid on Class 1 Stock.  The cash dividends declared and paid on Class B Stock and Class 1 Stock must always be the same.  Upon liquidation of the Company, holders of Class 1 Stock will share ratably on a per share basis in net assets to be distributed with respect to common stock together with holders of Class A Stock and Class B Stock.
 
Each holder of a share of Class 1 Stock may, without cost to such holder and at the holders option, convert shares of Class 1 Stock into shares of Class A Stock on a one-for-one basis; however, such conversion is permitted only if the holder immediately sells the Class A Stock acquired upon conversion in a market transaction or to an unrelated party in a bona fide private sale.  Holders of Class 1 Stock will not have preemptive rights to purchase shares of the Companys capital stock.  Shares of Class 1 Stock are not redeemable, and there will be no sinking fund provisions for shares of Class 1 Stock.
While the total number of authorized shares and total number of authorized shares of common stock have been increased by the Restated Certificate, the Companys ability to actually issue more shares has not been increased.  Because shares of Class 1 Stock are convertible into
 
 
shares of Class A Stock, for each share of Class 1 Stock issued the Company must reserve one share of Class A Stock for issuance upon the conversion of the share of Class 1 Stock.  This requirement effectively reduces the number of shares of Class A Stock that the Company may issue by the number of shares of Class 1 Stock that the Company issues. Because the number of authorized shares of Class A Stock was not increased by the Restated Certificate, the total number of shares that the Company is able to issue has not been increased.
In addition to creating the Class 1 Common Stock, the Restated Certificate also makes minor changes to the conversion mechanics relating to the Class B Stock to facilitate the Companys compliance with New York Stock Exchange Rules that require all securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange to be eligible for participation in the direct registration system of the Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation by January 1, 2008 (the Direct Registration Rules).
Amended and Restated By-Laws
On December 6, 2007, an amendment and restatement of the Companys By-Laws became effective.  The amendments effected by the Amended and Restated By-Laws address the existence of the Class 1 Stock, facilitate the Companys compliance with the Direct Registration Rules, clarify the responsibilities of certain of the Companys officers, and effect other conforming and ministerial changes.  The By-Laws of the Company as Amended and Restated as of December 6, 2007 are filed herewith as Exhibit 3.2 and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
This is a Restated Certificate of Incorporation which amends and restates the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Constellation Brands, Inc., as previously amended.
 
   
FIRST.(a) The present name of the corporation is Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Corporation).
   
   
  (b) The name under which the Corporation was originally incorporated was Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc.; and the date of filing of the original certificate of incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware was December 4, 1972.
   
   
   
   
SECOND.The amendment and the restatement of the certificate of incorporation herein certified have been duly adopted by the stockholders in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 and 245 of the Delaware General Corporation Law.
 
 
THIRD.The provisions of the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation as heretofore restated, amended and/or supplemented, are hereby amended and restated and integrated into a single instrument which shall read in its entirety as follows:
  
 
1. .  The name of the Corporation is Constellation Brands, Inc.
   
Name
 
2. .  The address of the registered office in the State of Delaware is 1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle  19801.  The name of its registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
   
Address; Registered Agent
3. .  The nature of business or purposes to be conducted or promoted is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the Delaware General Corporation Law.
   
Purposes
4. .  The total number of shares of stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is Three Hundred Sixty-One Million (361,000,000) consisting of:
   
Capitalization; General Authorization
 
 (a) Class A Common.  Three Hundred Fifteen Million (315,000,000) shares designated as Class A Common Stock, having a par value of One Cent ($.01) per share (the Class A Common);
   
     (b) Class B Common.  Thirty Million (30,000,000) shares designated as Class B Common Stock, having a par value of One Cent ($.01) per share (the Class B Common);
  
   
   
 
 (c) Class 1 Common.  Fifteen Million (15,000,000) shares designated as Class 1 Common Stock, having a par value of One Cent ($.01) per share (the Class 1 Common); and
   
   
   
    (d) Preferred Stock.  One Million (1,000,000) shares designated as Preferred Stock, having a par value of One Cent ($.01) per share (the Preferred Stock).
   
   
   
5..  The designations, powers, preferences and relative participation, optional or other special rights and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof in respect of each class of capital stock of the Corporation are as follows:
   
 Rights and Limitations
(i) . The Class A Common, Class B Common and Class 1 Common shall be identical in all respects and shall entitle the holders thereof to the same rights, privileges and limitations, except as otherwise provided herein. The relative rights, privileges and limitations are as follows:
   
   
Class A Common, Class B Common and Class 1 Common
     (a)    .  The holders of Class A Common, Class B Common and Class 1 Common shall have the
   
   
 
  
Voting Rights
following rights:
     (i) The holders of Class A Common, Class B Common and Class 1 Common shall be entitled to vote as separate classes on all matters as to which a class vote is now, or hereafter may be, required by law.
   
   
   
  
   
     (ii) The number of authorized shares of Class A Common and/or Class B Common may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) by the majority vote of all Class A Common and Class B Common voting as a single class, provided that the holders of Class A Common shall have one (1) vote per share and the holders of Class B Common shall have ten (10) votes per share.  The number of authorized shares of Class 1 Common may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) by holders of a majority of the voting power of the stock entitled to vote, voting as a single class, provided that the holders of Class A Common shall have one (1) vote per share, the holders of Class B Common shall have ten (10) votes per share and the holders of Class 1 Common shall have one (1) vote per share.
   
   
   
  
   
     (iii)At every meeting of shareholders called for the election of directors, the holders of the Class A Common, voting as a class, shall be entitled to elect one-fourth (1/4) of the number of directors to be elected at such meeting (rounded, if the total number of directors to be elected at such meeting is not evenly divisible by four (4), to the next higher whole number), and the holders of the Class B Common, voting as a class, shall be entitled to elect the remaining number of directors to be elected at such meeting. Irrespective of the foregoing, if the number of outstanding Class B Common shares is less than 12 1/2% of the total number of outstanding shares of Class A Common and Class B Common, then the holders of the Class A Common shall be entitled to elect one-fourth (1/4) of the number of directors to be elected at such meeting (rounded, if the total number of directors to be elected at such meeting is not evenly divisible by four (4), to the next higher whole number) and shall be entitled to participate with the holders of the Class B Common shares voting as a single class in the election of the remaining number of directors to be elected at such meeting, provided that the holders of Class A Common shall have one (1) vote per share and the holders of the Class B Common shall have ten (10) votes per share. If, during the interval between annual meetings for the
   
   
   
  
   
 
 
election of directors, the number of directors who have been elected by either the holders of the Class A Common or the Class B Common shall, by reason of resignation, death, retirement, disqualification or removal, be reduced, the vacancy or vacancies in directors so created may be filled by a majority vote of the remaining directors then in office, even if less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director. Any director so elected by the remaining directors to fill any such vacancy may be removed from office by the vote of the holders of a majority of the shares of the Class A Common and the Class B Common voting as a single class, provided that the holders of Class A Common shall have one (1) vote per share and the holders of the Class B Common shall have ten (10) votes per share.
 
    (iv)The holders of Class A Common and Class B Common shall in all matters not specified in Sections 5(i)(a)(i), 5(i)(a)(ii) and 5(i)(a)(iii) vote together as a single class, provided that the holders of Class A Common shall have one (1) vote per share and the holders of Class B Common shall have ten (10) votes per share.
   
    
  
   
     (v) The holders of Class 1 Common shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in Section 5(i)(a)(i) and the second sentence of Section 5(i)(a)(ii).
   
   
   
  
   
     (vi) There shall be no cumulative voting of any shares of Class A Common, Class B Common or
   
   
   
  
   
Class 1 Common.
 
(b). Subject to the rights of the Class A Common, Class B Common and Class 1 Common set forth in Paragraph 5(i)(c) hereof, the Board of Directors, acting in its sole discretion, may declare in accordance with law a dividend, payable in cash, in property or in securities of the Corporation, on any of the Class A Common, Class B Common or Class 1 Common, on all of the Class A Common, Class B Common and Class 1 Common, or on any combination of the Class A Common, Class B Common and Class 1 Common.
   
Dividends
 (c). The Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion, declare cash dividends payable only to holders of Class A Common or to the holders of Class A Common, Class B Common and Class 1 Common, but not only to holders of Class B Common, Class 1 Common, both Class B Common and Class 1 Common, both Class A Common and Class B Common or both Class A Common and Class 1 Common. A cash dividend in any amount may be paid on the Class A Common if no cash dividend is to be paid on Class B Common or Class 1 Common. If a cash dividend is to be paid on the Class B Common and Class 1 Common, (i) the cash dividend paid per share shall be the same for each share of Class B Common and Class 1 Common, and (ii) a cash dividend shall also be paid on the Class A Common in an amount per share thereof which exceeds the amount of the cash dividend paid on each share of Class B Common and Class 1 Common by at least ten percent (10%) (rounded up, if necessary, to the nearest one-hundredth of a cent).
   
  
   
Cash Dividends
      (d).
   
   
   
Convertibility
    (i) Each holder of record of a share of Class B Common may at any time or from time to time, without cost to such holder and at such holders option, convert any whole number or all of such holders shares of Class B Common into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Class A Common at the rate of one share of Class A Common for each share of Class B Common surrendered for conversion. Any such conversion may be effected by any holder of Class B Common by surrendering (which may be by electronic delivery or otherwise if such shares are uncertificated) such holders shares of Class B
   
   
   
   
 
 
Common to be converted, duly endorsed or with duly executed stock powers, at the office of the Corporation or the office of any transfer agent for the Class A Common, together with a written notice for the Corporation at such office that such holder elects to convert all or a specified number of such shares of Class B Common. Promptly thereafter, the Corporation shall issue and deliver to such holder the number of shares of Class A Common to which such holder shall be entitled as aforesaid. Such conversion shall be made as of the close of business on the date of such surrender and the person or persons entitled to receive the shares of Class A Common issuable on such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Class A Common on such date.
     (ii) Each holder of record of a share of Class 1 Common may, without cost to such holder and at such holders option, convert shares of Class 1 Common into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Class A Common at the rate of one share of Class A Common for each share of Class 1 Common surrendered for conversion; provided, a holder of shares of Class 1 Common may only convert such shares if such holder immediately sells the shares of Class A Common received upon such conversion in either a transaction effected through the facilities of the stock exchange or other trading market on which the Class A Stock is then actively traded (a Market Transaction) or a bona fide arms-length transaction with an unrelated party (a Qualifying Private Transaction). Any such conversion may be effected by any holder of Class 1 Common by (x) surrendering (by electronic delivery or otherwise) at the office of the transfer agent for the Class A Common (the Conversion Agent) such holders shares of Class 1 Common to be converted, (y) delivering to the Conversion Agent a notice or other instructions (which may be written or given electronically through any automated transaction system maintained by the Conversion Agent) that such holder elects to convert all or a specified number of such shares of Class 1 Common, and (z) delivering to the Conversion Agent either (1) instructions to sell the shares of Class A Common issuable upon such conversion on behalf of such holder (which instructions may be given in accordance with any account agreement in place between such holder and the Conversion Agent), or (2) a certificate stating that such holder has sold the shares of Class A Common issuable upon such conversion in a Market Transaction or Qualifying Private Transaction, together with a stock power or other transfer instructions identifying the person or persons in whose name the shares of Class A Common issuable upon such conversion are to be issued.  Promptly thereafter, the Corporation shall issue and deliver the number of shares of Class A Common to which such holder shall be entitled as aforesaid in accordance with the instructions to sell or transfer instructions delivered to the Conversion Agent. Such conversion shall be made as of the close of business on the date of surrender and delivery to the Conversion Agent of the shares of Class 1 Common and all other materials required to be delivered to the Conversion Agent, and the person or persons entitled to receive the shares of Class A Common issuable on such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Class A Common on such date.
   
   
   
  
   
    (iii)The Corporation will at all times reserve and keep available, solely for the purpose of issue upon conversion of the outstanding shares of Class B Common and Class 1 Common, such number of shares of Class A Common as shall be issuable upon the conversion of all such outstanding shares, provided that the foregoing shall not be considered to preclude the Corporation from satisfying its obligations in respect of the conversion of the outstanding shares of Class B Common or Class 1 Common by delivery of shares of Class A Common which are held in the treasury of the Corporation.
   
   
   
   
 
 
(e) . Holders of Class A Common, Class B Common and Class 1 Common shall have identical rights in the event of liquidation, and shall be treated as a single class for purposes thereof.
   
Rights Upon Liquidation
(ii)  . Subject to the terms contained in any designation of a series of Preferred Stock, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized, at any time and from time to time, to fix, by resolution or resolutions, the following provisions for shares of any class or classes of Preferred Stock of the Corporation or any series of any class of Preferred Stock:
   
Preferred Stock
(a) the designation of such class or series, the number of shares to constitute such class or series which may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares of that class or series then outstanding) by resolution of the Board of Directors, and the stated value thereof if different from the par value thereof;
   
(b) whether the shares of such class or series shall have voting rights, in addition to any voting rights provided by law, and, if so, the terms of such voting rights;
   
(c) the dividends, if any, payable on such class or series, whether any such dividends shall be cumulative, and, if so, from what dates, the conditions and dates upon which such dividends shall be payable, and the preference or relation which such dividends shall bear to the dividends payable on any shares of stock of any other class or any other series of the same class;
   
(d) whether the shares of such class or series shall be subject to redemption by the Corporation, and, if so, the times, prices and other conditions of such redemption;
   
(e) the amount or amounts payable upon shares of such series upon, and the rights of the holders of such class or series in, the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or upon any distribution of the assets, of the Corporation;
   
(f) whether the shares of such class or series shall be subject to the operation of a retirement or sinking fund and, if so, the extent to and manner in which any such retirement or sinking fund shall be applied to the purchase or redemption of the shares of such class or series for retirement or other corporate purposes and the terms and provisions relative to the operation thereof;
   
(g) whether the shares of such class or series shall be convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of stock of any other class or any other series of the same class or any other securities and, if so, the price or prices or the rate or rates of conversion or exchange and the method, if any, of adjusting the same, and any other terms and conditions of conversion or exchange;
   
(h) the limitations and restrictions, if any, to be effective while any shares of such class or series are outstanding upon the payment of dividends or the making of other distributions on, and upon the purchase, redemption or other acquisition by the Corporation of the Common Stock or shares of stock of any other class or any other series of the same class;
   
(i)  the conditions or restrictions, if any, upon the creation of indebtedness of the Corporation or upon the issue of any additional stock, including additional shares of such class or series or of any other series of the same class or of any other class;
   
 
 
(j)  the ranking (be it pari passu, junior or senior) of each class or series vis-a-vis any other class or series of any class of Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends, the distribution of assets and all other matters; and
   
(k) any other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and any qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, insofar as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, to the full extent permitted in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware.
   
The powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights of each class or series of Preferred Stock, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, if any, may differ from those of any and all other series at any time outstanding.
6.   . In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by statute, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation.
   
By-Laws
7.   . A member of the Corporations Board of Directors shall not be personally liable to the Corporation or its shareholders for monetary damages for a breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability of the director (i) for any breach of the directors duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its shareholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, relating to the payment of unlawful dividends or unlawful stock repurchases or redemptions, or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. If the Delaware General Corporation Law is amended after approval by the shareholders of this Paragraph to authorize corporate action further eliminating or limiting the personal liability of directors, then the liability of a director of the Corporation shall be eliminated or limited to the fullest extent permitted by the Delaware General Corporation Law, as so amended. Any repeal or modification of this Paragraph by the shareholders of the Corporation shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the Corporation existing at the time of such repeal or modification.
   
Liability of Directors
8.   .
   
Indemnification
(a) . Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is otherwise involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a proceeding), by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to an employee benefit plan (hereinafter an indemnitee), whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the Delaware General Corporation Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than such law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such indemnitee in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to an indemnitee who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the indemnitees heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that, except as provided in subparagraph (b)
   
Right to Indemnification
 
 
hereof with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, the Corporation shall indemnify any such indemnitee in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such indemnitee only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. The right to indemnification conferred in this Paragraph shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition (hereinafter an advancement of expenses), provided, however, that, if the Delaware General Corporation Law requires, an advancement of expenses incurred by an indemnitee in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such indemnitee, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking (hereinafter an undertaking), by or on behalf of such indemnitee, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined by final judicial decision from which there is no further right to appeal (hereinafter a final adjudication) that such indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified for such expenses under this Paragraph or otherwise.
(b) . If a claim under subparagraph (a) of this Paragraph is not paid in full by the Corporation within sixty days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation, except in the case of a claim for an advancement of expenses, in which case the applicable period shall be twenty days, the indemnitee may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim. If successful in whole or in part in any such suit, or in a suit brought by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the indemnitee shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting or defending such suit. In (i) any suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification hereunder (but not in a suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to an advancement of expenses) it shall be a defense that, and (ii) in any suit by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking the Corporation shall be entitled to recover such expenses upon final adjudication that, the indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its shareholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such suit that indemnification of the indemnitee is proper in the circumstance because the indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its shareholders) that the indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall create a presumption that the indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct or, in the case of such a suit brought by the indemnitee, be a defense to such suit. In any suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification or to an advancement of expenses hereunder, or by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the burden of proving that the indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified, or to such advancement of expenses, under this Paragraph or otherwise shall be on the Corporation.
   
Right of Indemnitee to Bring Suit
(c) . The rights of indemnification and to the advancement of expenses conferred in this Paragraph shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, by-law, agreement, vote of shareholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
   
Non-Exclusivity of Rights
(d) . The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether
   
Insurance
 
 
or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the Delaware General Corporation Law.
(e) . The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and to the advancement of expenses to any employee or agent of the Corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Paragraph with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation.
   
Indemnification of Employees and Agents of the Corporation
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Restated Certificate of Incorporation as of the 6th day of December, 2007.

 
Exhibit 3.2
 
SECTION 1.1 .  An annual meeting of stockholders shall be held for the election of directors at such date, time and place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as may be designated by resolution of the Board of Directors from time to time.  Any other proper business may be transacted at the annual meeting.
   
Annual Meetings
 
SECTION 1.2 .  Special meetings of stockholders for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the Board of Directors, or by a committee of the Board of Directors which has been duly designated by the Board of Directors, and whose powers and authority, as expressly provided in a resolution of the Board of Directors, include the power to call such meetings, but such special meetings may not be called by any other person or persons.
   
Special Meetings
 
SECTION 1.3 .  Whenever stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a written notice of the meeting shall be given which shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called.  Unless otherwise provided by law, the written notice of any meeting shall be given not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting.  If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation.
   
Notice of Meetings
 
SECTION 1.4 .  Any meeting of stockholders, annual or special, may adjourn from time to time to reconvene at the same or some other place, and notice need not be given of any such adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken.  At the adjourned meeting the Corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting.  If the adjournment is for more than thirty days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
   
Adjournments
 
SECTION 1.5 .  The Corporations authorized capital stock consists of Class A Common Stock (the Class A Common), Class B Common Stock (the Class B Common), Class 1 Common Stock (the Class 1 Common) and Preferred Stock (the Preferred Stock).  At each meeting of stockholders, except as otherwise provided by law, the Corporations Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, the holders of shares representing a majority of the votes entitled to be cast at the meeting by the holders of all outstanding shares entitled to vote, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum.  In the absence of a quorum, the stockholders so present may adjourn the meeting from time to time in
   
Quorum
 
 
the manner provided in Section 1.4 of these By-Laws until a quorum shall attend.  Such an adjournment may be approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders present or represented by proxy at such meeting notwithstanding that a quorum is not present.  Shares of its own stock belonging to the Corporation or to another corporation, if a majority of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors of such other corporation is held, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation, shall neither be entitled to vote nor be counted for quorum purposes; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not limit the right of any corporation to vote stock, including but not limited to its own stock, held by it in a fiduciary capacity.
 
SECTION 1.6 .  At each meeting of stockholders (a) each holder of Class A Common present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on a matter shall be entitled to cast one (1) vote for each share of Class A Common held by such holder, (b) each holder of Class B Common present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on a matter shall be entitled to cast ten (10) votes for each share of Class B Common held by such holder, (c) each holder of Class 1 Common present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on a matter shall be entitled to cast one (1) vote for each share of Class 1 Common held by such holder, and (d) each holder of Preferred Stock present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting shall be entitled to such voting rights as shall be provided for in the Certificate of Designations relating to the Preferred Stock held by such holder.  Except as otherwise provided by law, Section 2.2 of these By-Laws pertaining to the election of directors, or the Corporations Restated Certificate of Incorporation, all classes of stock entitled to vote with respect to a matter shall vote together as a single class and the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by stockholders present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the matter shall be the act of the stockholders.  Except as otherwise required by law or by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may require a larger vote upon any election or question.
   
Voting
 
SECTION 1.7 .  Meetings of stockholders shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board, if any, or in his absence by the Vice Chairman of the Board, if any, or in his absence by the Chief Executive Officer, or in his absence by the President or in the absence of the foregoing persons by a chairman designated by the Board of Directors, or in the absence of such designation by a chairman chosen at the meeting.  The Secretary shall act as secretary of the meeting, but in his absence the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
   
Organization
 
SECTION 1.8 .  Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders may authorize another person or persons to act for him by proxy in any manner permitted by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period.  A duly executed proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and if, and only as long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power.  A stockholder may revoke any proxy which is not irrevocable by attending the meeting and voting in person or by filing an instrument in writing revoking the proxy or another duly executed proxy bearing a later date with the Secretary of the Corporation.
   
Proxies
 
 
SECTION 1.9 .  In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty days prior to any other action.  If no record date is fixed:  (1) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held; and (2) the record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.  A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
   
Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record
 
SECTION 1.10 .  The Secretary shall prepare and make, at least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder.  Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not so specified, at the offices of the transfer agent.  The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.  The stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list of stockholders or the books of the Corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.
   
List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote
 
SECTION 1.11 .   Unless otherwise restricted by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, any action required or permitted to be taken at any annual or special meeting of the stockholders may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted.  Prompt notice of the taking of the corporate action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given to those stockholders who have not consented in writing.
   
Action by Consent of Stockholders
 
SECTION 1.12 .  At an annual meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting.  To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (b) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (c) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder.  For
   
Business at Meetings of Stockholders
 
 
business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation.  To be timely, a stockholders notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 120 days before the date of the Corporations proxy statement that was released to stockholders in connection with its previous annual meeting of stockholders. If the date of the annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 days from the date of the previous years annual meeting or if no annual meeting was held during the previous year, then the notice must be received a reasonable time before the Corporation begins to print and mail its proxy materials. A stockholders notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting: (w) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (x) the name, address and telephone number of the stockholder proposing such business, (y) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder, and (z) any material interest of the stockholder in such business. A stockholder who makes a proposal shall provide the Corporation with such additional information regarding the proposal as shall be reasonably requested by the Corporation, including, without limitation, any information necessary for the Corporation to comply with federal securities laws. The Chairman of the annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the provisions of this Section 1.12, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
 
 
 
SECTION 2.1 .  The Board of Directors shall consist of one or more members, the number thereof to be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors.  Directors shall be elected at the annual meeting of stockholders and each director elected shall hold office until his successor is elected and qualified.  Directors need not be stockholders.
   
Number; Qualifications
 
SECTION 2.2 . At every meeting of stockholders called for the election of directors, the holders of Class A Common, voting as a class, shall be entitled to elect one-fourth (1/4) of the number of directors to be elected at such meeting (rounded, if the total number of directors to be elected at such meeting is not evenly divisible by four (4), to the next higher whole number), and the holders of Class B Common, voting as a class, shall be entitled to elect the remaining number of directors to be elected at such meeting.  Irrespective of the foregoing, if the number of outstanding Class B Common shares is less than 12 1/2% of the total number of outstanding shares of Class A Common and Class B Common, then the holders of the Class A Common shall be entitled to elect one-fourth (1/4) of the number of directors to be elected at such meeting (rounded, if the total number of directors to be elected at such meeting is not evenly divisible by four (4), to the next higher whole number) and shall be entitled to participate with the holders of the Class B Common voting as a single class in the election of the remaining number of directors to be elected at such meeting, provided that the holders of Class A Common shall have one (1) vote per share and the holders of Class B
   
Election; Resignation; Removal; Vacancies
 
 
Common shall have ten (10) votes per share.  In each case, the directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders who are present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors.  If, during the interval between annual meetings for the election of directors, the number of directors who have been elected by either the holders of the Class A Common or the Class B Common shall, by reason of resignation, death, retirement, disqualification or removal, be reduced, the vacancy or vacancies in directors so created may be filled by a majority vote of the remaining directors then in office, even if less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director.  Any director so elected by the remaining directors to fill any such vacancy may be removed from office by the vote of the holders of a majority of the shares of the Class A Common and the Class B Common voting as a single class, provided that the holders of Class A Common shall have one (1) vote per share and the holders of Class B Common shall have ten (10) votes per share.
 
SECTION 2.3 .  Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at such places within or without the State of Delaware and at such times as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine, and if so determined notices thereof need not be given.
   
Regular Meetings
 
SECTION 2.4 .  Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time or place within or without the State of Delaware whenever called by the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Vice-President, the Secretary, or by any two members of the Board of Directors.  At least one days notice thereof shall be given by the person or persons calling the meeting, either personally, by mail or by telegram.
   
Special Meetings
 
SECTION 2.5 .  Members of the Board of Directors, or any committee designated by the Board, may participate in a meeting of such Board or committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this By-Law shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
   
Telephonic Meetings Permitted
 
SECTION 2.6 .  At all meetings of the Board of Directors a majority of the whole Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.  Except in cases in which the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws otherwise provide, the vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors.
   
Quorum; Vote Required for Action
 
SECTION 2.7 .  Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board, if any, or in his absence by the Vice Chairman of the Board, if any, or in his absence by the Chief Executive Officer, or in his absence by the President, or in the absence of the foregoing persons by a chairman chosen at the meeting.  The Secretary shall act as secretary of the meeting, but in his absence the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
   
Organization
 
SECTION 2.8 .  Unless otherwise restricted by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or such committee, as the case may be, consent
   
Informal Action by Directors
 
 
thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee.
 
 
 
SECTION 3.1 .  The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation.  The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee.  In the absence or disqualification of a member of the committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in place of any such absent or disqualified member.  Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but no such committee shall have power or authority in reference to amending the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, adopting an agreement of merger or consolidation, recommending to the stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the Corporations property and assets, recommending to the stockholders a dissolution of the Corporation or a revocation of dissolution, or amending these By-Laws; and, unless the resolution expressly so provides, no such committee shall have the power or authority to declare a dividend or to authorize the issuance of stock.
   
Committees
 
SECTION 3.2 .  Unless the Board of Directors otherwise provides, each committee designated by the Board may make, alter and repeal rules for the conduct of its business.  In the absence of such rules each committee shall conduct its business in the same manner as the Board of Directors conducts its business pursuant to Article II of these By-Laws.
   
Committee Rules
 
 
 
SECTION 4.1  . The Board of Directors shall choose a President and Secretary, and it may, if it so determines, choose a Chairman of the Board and a Vice Chairman of the Board from among its members. The Board of Directors may also choose a Chief Executive Officer, one or more Vice-Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries, a Treasurer and one or more Assistant Treasurers, and may choose such other officers as it may deem necessary, each of whom shall have such titles and duties as shall be determined by the Board of Directors. Each such officer shall hold office until the first meeting of the Board of Directors after the annual meeting of stockholders next succeeding this election, and until his successor is elected and qualified or until his earlier resignation or removal. Any officer may resign at any time upon written notice to the Corporation. The Board of Directors may remove any officer with or without cause at any time, but such removal shall be without prejudice to the contractual
   
Executive Officers; Election; Qualifications; Term of Office; Resignation; Removal; Vacancies
 
 
rights of such officer, if any, with the Corporation. Any number of offices may be held by the same person. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation by reason of death, resignation, removal or otherwise may be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting.
 
SECTION 4.2 . The Chairman of the Board, if there be one, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the stockholders, and shall perform such other duties as the Board may direct.
   
Chairman of the Board
 
SECTION 4.3 . The Board of Directors may designate whether the Chairman of the Board, if one shall have been chosen, or the President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation. If a Chairman of the Board has not been chosen, or if one has been chosen but not designated Chief Executive Officer, then the President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation. The Chief Executive Officer shall be the principal executive officer of the Corporation and shall in general supervise and control all of the business and affairs of the Corporation, unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors. He shall preside at meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors under the circumstances described in Section 1.7 or 2.7, respectively, and shall see that orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are carried into effect. He shall have general powers of supervision and shall be the final arbiter of all differences among officers of the Corporation and his decision as to any matter affecting the Corporation shall be final and binding as between the officers of the Corporation subject only to the Board of Directors.
   
Chief Executive Officer
 
SECTION 4.4 . If the Chairman of the Board has not been chosen Chief Executive Officer or, if the Chairman of the Board has been so chosen, in the event of his inability or refusal to act, the President shall perform the duties of the Chief Executive Officer, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Chief Executive Officer. At all other times, the President shall have the active management of the business of the Corporation under the general supervision of the Chief Executive Officer. In general, he shall perform all duties incident to the office of President, and such other duties as the Chief Executive Officer or the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.  If the Chairman of the Board has been chosen Chief Executive Officer, the President shall preside at meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors under the circumstances described in Section 1.7 or 2.7, respectively.
   
President
 
SECTION 4.5 . In the absence of the President or in the event of his inability or refusal to act, the Vice-President (or in the event there be more than one Vice-President, the Vice-Presidents in the order designated, or in the absence of any designation, then in the order of their election) shall perform the duties of the President, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the President. The Vice-Presidents shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.
   
Vice-Presidents
 
SECTION 4.6 . The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and all meetings of the stockholders and record all the proceedings of the meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors in a book to be kept for that purpose and shall perform like duties for the standing committees when required. He shall give, or cause to be
   
Secretary
 
 
given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or Chief Executive Officer, under whose supervision he shall be. He shall have custody of the corporate seal of the Corporation and he, or an Assistant Secretary, shall have authority to affix the same to any instrument requiring it and when so affixed, it may be attested by his signature or by the signature of such Assistant Secretary. The Board of Directors may give general authority to any other officer to affix the seal of the Corporation and to attest the affixing by his signature.
 
SECTION 4.7 . The Assistant Secretary, or if there be more than one, the Assistant Secretaries in the order determined by the Board of Directors (or if there be no such determination, then in the order of their election), shall, in the absence of the Secretary or in the event of his inability or refusal to act, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Secretary and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.
   
Assistant Secretary
 
SECTION 4.8 . The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation and shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. He shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the Chief Executive Officer and the Board of Directors, at its regular meetings, or when the Board of Directors so requires, an account of all his transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation. If required by the Board of Directors, he shall give the Corporation a bond (which shall be renewed every six years) in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful performance of the duties of his office and for the restoration to the Corporation, in case of his death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and property of whatever kind in his possession or under his control belonging to the Corporation.
   
Treasurer
 
SECTION 4.9 . The Assistant Treasurer, or if there be more than one, the Assistant Treasurers in the order determined by the Board of Directors (or if there be no such determination, then in the order of their election), shall, in the absence of the Treasurer or in the event of his inability or refusal to act, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Treasurer and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.
   
Assistant Treasurer
 
 
 
SECTION 5.1 . The shares of stock of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates except to the extent that the Board of Directors has adopted one or more resolutions providing that some or all of any or all classes or series of the Corporations stock shall be uncertificated shares.  Any such resolution adopted by the Board of Directors that relates to outstanding shares represented by a certificate shall not apply to such outstanding shares until such certificate is surrendered to the Corporation.  Every holder of stock represented by
   
Certificates
 
 
certificates shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by or in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, if any, or the President or a Vice-President, and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Corporation, certifying the class and number of shares of the Corporation registered in certificate form that are owned by him. Any of or all the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent, or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent, or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent, or registrar at the date of issue. Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated shares, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice setting forth the class and number of shares of the Corporation registered in his name.  Any stock certificates issued and any notices given shall include such other information and legends as shall be required by law or necessary to give effect to any applicable transfer, voting or similar restrictions.
 
SECTION 5.2 . The Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock in the place of any certificate theretofore issued by it, alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, and the Corporation may require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or his legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate.  If shares represented by a stock certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed have become uncertificated shares, the Corporation may, in lieu of issuing a new certificate, cause such shares to be reflected on its books as uncertificated shares and may require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or his legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate.
   
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Stock Certificates; Issuance of New Certificates
 
SECTION 5.3 . Upon surrender to the Corporation or the transfer agent of the Corporation of a certificate for shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer, it shall be the duty of the Corporation to issue a new certificate or evidence of the issuance of uncertificated shares to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon its books.  Upon the receipt by the Corporation or the transfer agent of the Corporation of proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer with respect to uncertificated shares, it shall be the duty of the Corporation to record the transaction upon its books.
   
Transfers of Stock
 
SECTION 5.4 . The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and to hold liable for calls and assessments a person registered on its books as the owner of shares, and shall not he bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by the laws of the State of Delaware.
   
Registered Stockholders
 
SECTION 5.5 .  The Board of Directors may appoint a transfer agent and one or more co-transfer agents and registrar and one or more co-
   
Transfer Agents; Registrars; Regulations
 
 
registrars and may make, or authorize any such agent to make, all such rules and regulations deemed expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of shares of stock of the Corporation.
 
 
 
SECTION 6.1 . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be March 1 to the last day of February, unless otherwise determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.
   
Fiscal Year
 
SECTION 6.2 . The corporate seal shall have the name of the Corporation inscribed thereon and shall be in such form as may be approved from time to time by the Board of Directors.
   
Seal
 
SECTION 6.3 . Any written waiver of notice, signed by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of any regular or special meeting of the stockholders, directors, or member of a committee of directors need be specified in any written waiver of notice.
   
Waiver of Notice of Meetings of Stockholders, Directors and Committees
 
SECTION 6.4 . No contract or transaction between the Corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association, or other organization in which one or more of its directors or officers are directors or officers, or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board or committee thereof which authorizes the contract or transaction, or solely because his or their votes are counted for such purpose, if: (1) the material facts as to his relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board of Directors or the committee, and the Board or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transactionby the affirmative votes of amajority of the disinterested directors, even though the disinterested directors be less than a quorum; or (2) the material facts as to his relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the stockholders; or (3) the contract or transaction is fair as to the Corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified, by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof, or the stockholders. All directors, including interested directors, may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transaction.
   
Interested Directors; Quorum
 
 
 
SECTION 6.5 . Any records maintained by the Corporation in the regular course of its business, including its stock ledger, books of account, and minute books, may be kept on, or be in the form of, punch cards, magnetic tape, photographs, micro
   
Form of Records
 
 
photographs, or any other information storage device, provided that the records so kept can be converted into clearly legible form within a reasonable time. The Corporation shall so convert any records so kept upon the request of any person entitled to inspect the same.
 
SECTION 6.6 . These By-Laws may be altered or repealed, and new By-Laws made, by the Board of Directors, but the stockholders may make additional By-Laws and may alter and repeal any By-Laws whether adopted by them or otherwise.
   
Amendment of By-Laws
 

Exhibit 99.1
This Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan (amended and restated as of December 6, 2007) is adopted pursuant to Section 19 of the Plan by the Board of Directors of Constellation Brands, Inc., acting in its capacity as the Committee under the Plan, and by the stockholders of the Company.  The Plan amends and restates in its entirety the Constellation Brands, Inc. Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan that was approved by the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company at a meeting held on April 27, 2007 and became effective on July 26, 2007, and applies to Awards made on or after December 6, 2007.  Grants of Awards made under this Plan prior to December 6, 2007 shall be governed by the terms of the Plan in effect as of the date of the Award except to the extent that such Awards are expressly amended to provide that they are governed by the terms of the Plan as amended and restated as of December 6, 2007.  Certain capitalized terms used in the Plan are defined in Annex A.
1.          PURPOSE
 The Plan is designed to provide the Company with increased flexibility to attract and retain valued employees and directors and to provide them with incentives to maintain and enhance the Companys long-term performance record by aligning the interests of the Participants and the stockholders of the Company.
   
2.          ADMINISTRATION
 
    The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.  The Committee shall possess the authority, in its discretion, (a) to determine the employees and directors of the Company to whom Awards shall be granted and the time or times at which Awards shall be granted; (b) to determine at the time of grant the number of shares to be subject to each Award; (c) to prescribe the form of the instrument representing such Award; (d) to establish any appropriate terms and conditions applicable to the Awards including any limitations on grants, vesting or exercisability, and to make any amendments to such instruments or the Awards which may, without limitation, include any acceleration of vesting or exercisability, waiver of any condition or requirement or taking of other action consistent with the purposes of the Plan; (e) to interpret and construe the Plan; (f) to make and amend rules and regulations relating to the Plan; and (g) to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.  The Committees determinations shall be conclusive and binding on all Participants and all persons claiming under or through any Participant.  No member of the Committee shall be liable for any action taken or decision made in good faith relating to the Plan or any Award granted under the Plan.
   
 
 No outstanding Award may be exercised by any person if the Participant to whom the Award is granted (x) is, or at any time after the date of grant has been, in competition with the Company or its affiliates or (y) has been terminated by the Company for Cause.  The Committee shall determine, in its discretion, whether a Participants actions constitute competition with the Company or its affiliates.
   
 
3.          ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES AND NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS
All employees of the Company are eligible to receive Awards under the Plan.  Awards may be made to non-employee directors of the Company.  No Awards under the Plan shall be made to Covered Employees which are intended to qualify under Section 162(m) of the Code until the Plan is approved by stockholders of the Company.
4.          SHARES AVAILABLE; TYPES OF AWARDS
Awards may be granted under the Plan with respect to Class A Stock or Class 1 Stock.  The aggregate number of shares of Class A Stock and Class 1 Stock available for Awards under the Plan is ninety-four million shares.  Subject to such aggregate limit, Awards may be granted in any combination of Shares of Class A Stock or Class 1 Stock.  The maximum number of Shares which may be subject to Awards granted to any Participant in any fiscal year shall not exceed 1% of the diluted shares of Class A Stock outstanding on February 28, 2007.  Shares subject to Awards may be authorized and unissued Shares or may be treasury Shares.
If an Award expires, terminates or is cancelled without being exercised or becoming vested, new Awards may thereafter be granted under the Plan covering such shares unless the applicable Rules under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act or Section 162(m) of the Code require otherwise.
The Committee may make Awards from time to time in any one or more of the following types singly or in tandem:  Nonqualified Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or Other Stock-Based Awards.
5.         STOCK OPTIONS
Each Stock Option Award shall specify the following terms and conditions, as well as any other terms, conditions, limitations and restrictions specified by the Committee:
(a)          .  Whether the Stock Option relates to Shares of Class A Stock or Class 1 Stock shall be specified.
Class of Common Stock
(b) .  The exercise price per Share under each Stock Option shall be specified by the Committee, provided that the exercise price per Share under each Stock Option granted to a Participant shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of a Share to which the Stock Option relates on the date the Award is granted.
   
Exercise Price
(c) .  The duration of each Stock Option shall be specified.  Stock Options must be exercised on or before 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time on their expiration date.
   
Duration of Option
(d).  Unless otherwise specified by the Committee, each Stock Option granted under the Plan shall become exercisable in five equal annual installments commencing on the first anniversary of the date of grant.  Stock Options may be partially exercised from time to time during the period extending from the time they first become exercisable in accordance with the terms of the Award until the expiration of the exercise
   
 Exercise Terms
 
 
period specified in the Award.  Exercise of related Stock Appreciation Rights will cause the immediate automatic expiration of related Stock Options on the terms and conditions specified by the Committee. The Committee may impose such additional or other limitations or conditions on the vesting or exercise of any Stock Option as it deems appropriate.
(e) .  A Stock Option shall be exercised upon such notice as is required by the Committee accompanied by payment in full of the exercise price for the Shares being acquired in such form as the Committee may provide in accordance with Section 9 of the Plan, together with all applicable withholding taxes as provided in Section 10 of the Plan.
   
Payment of Exercise Price
(f) .  The Committee, in its sole discretion, may authorize the amendment of an outstanding Stock Option that relates to Class A Stock so that such Stock Option, instead, relates to Class 1 Stock.  An amendment to an outstanding Stock Option so that it relates to Class 1 Stock instead of Class A Stock shall not constitute a new grant for purposes of Section 5(b), and such Stock Option shall continue to be treated for all purposes as having been granted on the original grant date of such Stock Option.  The Committee shall have discretion to determine the terms and conditions of such amended Stock Option; provided that such terms and conditions shall, to the extent permissible within the terms and conditions of the Plan, be equivalent to the terms and conditions of the Stock Option prior to the amendment.  The exercise price of the amended Stock Option may not be less than the exercise price of the Stock Option prior to the amendment, and the number of Shares that may be purchased under the amended Stock Option may not exceed the number of Shares that could have been purchased under the Stock Option prior to the amendment, in each case subject to the adjustments in Section 15.
   
Amended Stock Option
6.STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS
   
Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted by the Committee in Awards which are in tandem with Stock Options or freestanding.  Tandem Awards may be granted at the same time as the grant of the related Stock Option or at any time thereafter prior to the end of the exercise period for the related Stock Option.  Each Stock Appreciation Right shall specify whether it relates to Shares of Class A Stock or Class 1 Stock.
(a)           .  The value of each Stock Appreciation Right shall be the difference between the Fair Market Value of a Share to which the Stock Appreciation Right relates on the date of exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right and the reference amount specified in the Award, which for each Stock Appreciation Right granted in tandem with a Stock Option shall be not less than the exercise price of the related Stock Option.  The reference amount for each Stock Appreciation Right granted to a Covered Employee shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of a Share to which the Stock Appreciation Right relates on the date of grant of the Stock Appreciation Right.
Value
 
(b)           .  The duration of each Stock Appreciation Right shall be specified.  Each tandem Stock Appreciation Right shall
Duration of Stock Appreciation Right
 
 
specify the Stock Option to which it is related and the terms and conditions under which exercise or expiration of the related Stock Option will result in automatic expiration of the related Stock Appreciation Right and the terms and conditions on which exercise or expiration of the Stock Appreciation Right will result in automatic expiration of the related Stock Option.
(c)           .  Unless otherwise specified by the Committee, each Stock Appreciation Right granted under the Plan shall become exercisable in five equal annual installments commencing on the first anniversary of the date of grant.  Stock Appreciation Rights may be partially exercised from time to time during the period extending from the time they first become exercisable in accordance with the terms of the Award until the expiration of the exercise period specified in the Award.  Exercise of related Stock Options will cause the immediate automatic expiration of related Stock Appreciation Rights on the terms and conditions specified by the Committee.  The Committee may impose such additional or other limitations or conditions on the exercise of any Stock Appreciation Right as specified in the Award as it deems appropriate, including such additional or other limitations or conditions on the vesting or exercise of any Stock Appreciation Right as it deems appropriate.  A Stock Appreciation Right shall be exercised upon such notice as is required by the Committee.
Exercise Terms
7.         RESTRICTED STOCK
Shares of Restricted Stock may be granted by the Committee from time to time in its discretion to Participants subject to such terms and conditions as may be required by law or are specified in the Award, including any payment required for the Shares.  The Award will also specify whether the Shares of Restricted Stock are Class A Stock or Class 1 Stock, the availability of dividends and other distributions with respect to which Shares of Restricted Stock are entitled, and the voting rights, if any, associated with such Shares of Restricted Stock.  Restricted Stock Awards to Participants who may be Covered Employees which are intended to satisfy the requirements for performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code shall only be made if payout is contingent upon achievement of Performance Targets within or at the end of the Performance Period with respect to one or more Performance Criteria as specified by the Committee and the Committee certifies the extent to which any Performance Target has been satisfied and the number of Shares of Restricted Stock deliverable as a result thereof, prior to the delivery of any such Shares to Covered Employees.  In any fiscal year, the value of Restricted Stock Awards to any individual Covered Employee shall not exceed $5 million (measured by the difference between the amount of any payment for the Shares by the Participant and the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date of the Award).
8.         OTHER STOCK-BASED AWARDS
From time to time in its discretion, the Committee may grant Other Stock-Based Awards to any Participant on such terms and conditions as may be determined by the Committee and specified in the Award.  Grants of Other Stock-Based Awards to Participants who may be Covered Employees which are intended to satisfy the requirements for performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code shall only be made if payout or exercise is contingent upon achievement of Performance Targets within or at the end of the Performance
 
 
Period with respect to one or more Performance Criteria as specified by the Committee and the Committee certifies the extent to which any Performance Target has been satisfied, and the number of Shares or other compensation deliverable as a result thereof, prior to the delivery of any such Shares or compensation to Covered Employees.  Any exercise of Other Stock-Based Awards shall be made upon such notice as is required by the Committee to the Company accompanied by payment in full of any exercise price for the Shares or other compensation being acquired in such form as the Committee may provide in accordance with Section 9 of the Plan, together with all applicable withholding taxes as provided in Section 10 of the Plan.  In any fiscal year, the value of Other Stock-Based Awards to any individual Covered Employee shall not exceed $5 million (measured by the difference between the amount of any payment or exercise price for the Award by the Participant and the Fair Market Value of the Shares or the Award on the date of the Award).
9.         PAYMENT FOR PURCHASE OR EXERCISE OF AWARDS
The exercise price of Stock Options and any Other Stock-Based Awards providing for exercise prices and the purchase price for any Restricted Stock or Other Stock-Based Awards providing for purchase prices shall be paid to the Company upon exercise or acquisition of such Award  in the manner which the Committee may determine which may include by (a) delivery of cash or a check in the amount of the price of the Award, (b) tendering previously acquired Shares having a Fair Market Value at the time of delivery equal to the price of the Award, (c) in the case of an Award relating to Class A Stock, delivery of irrevocable instructions to a broker or other agent acceptable to the Company to promptly sell Class A Stock received under the Award and to deliver to the Company the amount of proceeds to pay the price related to such Award, (d) in the case of an Award relating to Class 1 Stock, (i) delivery to the Companys transfer agent for Class A Stock of any conversion notice or direction necessary to convert Class 1 Stock received under the Award into Class A Stock, and (ii) delivery of irrevocable instructions to a broker or other agent acceptable to the Company to promptly sell shares of Class A Stock received upon the conversion of the Class 1 Stock received under the Award and to deliver to the Company the amount of proceeds to pay the price related to such Award, or (e) such other method of payment as the Committee in its discretion deems appropriate, in each case together with all applicable withholding taxes as provided in Section 10.  Previously acquired Shares tendered in payment must have been owned by Participant for at least six months prior to the tender in payment of an Award.
10.       WITHHOLDING TAXES
Whenever required by law in connection with an Award, the Company shall (and whenever permitted by law in connection with an Award the Company may but is not obligated to) require the Participant to remit to the Company an amount sufficient to satisfy any federal, state and/or local income tax, foreign tax, social charge and employment withholding tax requirements prior to the delivery of any certificate or certificates for Shares or to take any other appropriate action to satisfy such withholding requirements, including any method permitted for payment under Section 9 as determined by the Committee.  To the extent permitted under such rules as the Committee may promulgate and in compliance with any requirements to avoid violations under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act and related Rules, the Participant may satisfy
 
 
such obligation in whole or in part by electing to have the Company withhold Shares from the Shares to which the Participant is otherwise entitled under the Award.
11.       PERFORMANCE CRITERIA
For each Award of Restricted Stock or Other Stock-Based Award intended to qualify as performance based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code and related Rules, the Committee shall select the applicable Performance Criteria, Performance Period and Performance Target for the Award consistent with the terms of the Plan and Section 162(m).  The Committee may select Performance Criteria, Performance Periods and Performance Targets for Restricted Stock and Other Stock-Based Awards for Participants other than Covered Employees in its discretion.  The Committee shall have no discretion to increase the amount of compensation payable to Covered Employees if a Performance Target has been attained, but the Committee may adjust compensation to increase the amount, in its discretion, to any other Participant.  The Committee may adjust Performance Targets to take into account the effects of any Extraordinary Items equitably in a manner consistent with the determination of the original Award, provided, however, no such adjustment may be made with respect to any Award to a Covered Employee which is intended to qualify as performance based compensation unless such adjustment satisfies the requirements of Code Section 162(m) and the related Rules.
 
For Awards to Covered Employees which are intended to qualify as performance based compensation under Code Section 162(m), the Performance Target with respect to the selected Performance Criteria must be established by the Committee in advance of the deadlines applicable under Code Section 162(m) and the Rules thereunder and while the performance relating to the Performance Target remains substantially uncertain within the meaning of such Section 162(m) and Rules.  At the time the Performance Targets are established, the Committee shall provide, in terms of an objective formula or standard for each Covered Employee, the method of computing the specific amount that will represent the maximum number of Shares or amount of other compensation payable to the Participant if the Performance Target is attained.
12.       AWARDS NOT TRANSFERABLE
Unless transferability is permitted under certain conditions as determined by the Committee, no Award is transferable by the Participant other than (i) by will or the laws of descent and distribution, (ii) pursuant to a domestic relations order, or (iii) to the extent permitted under the Plan, the Award or interpretation of the Committee, by gift to family members or by gift or permitted non-cash exchange to entities beneficially owned by family members or other permitted transferees, and shall be exercisable only by the Participant, the Participants legal representative, or the Participants permitted transferees.  Shares of  Restricted Stock may not be sold or otherwise transferred until ownership vests in the Participant.
13.       GENERAL RESTRICTION ON ISSUANCE OF STOCK CERTIFICATES
The Company shall not be required to deliver any certificate upon the grant, vesting or exercise of any Award until it has been furnished with such documents as it may deem necessary to insure compliance with any law or Rules of the SEC or any other governmental authority having jurisdiction under the Plan.  Shares of Class 1 Stock will not be represented by
 
 
certificates.  Certificates for shares of Class A Stock or notices of ownership for Shares delivered upon such grant or exercise shall bear legends restricting transfer or other restrictions or conditions to the extent required by law or determined by the Committee.  Each Award under the Plan is subject to the condition that, if at any time the Committee shall determine that the listing, registration or qualification of the Shares subject to such Award under any state or federal law or other applicable Rule, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body, is necessary or desirable as a condition of the granting of such Awards or the issue or purchase of Shares thereunder, such Awards may not vest or be exercised in whole or in part unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee.
14.       TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
If the employment of a Participant terminates by reason of the Participants Retirement, Disability or death, any Award may be exercised or received by the Participant, the Participants designated beneficiary or legal representative or permitted transferee at any time on or prior to the earlier of the expiration date of the Award or the expiration of one year after the date of Retirement, Disability or death but only if, and to the extent that the Participant was entitled to exercise or receive the Award at the date of Retirement, Disability or death and subject to such other terms and conditions as may be specified in the Award and the Plan.  All Awards or any portion thereof not yet vested or exercisable on the date of Retirement, Disability or death shall become immediately vested and exercisable on the date of termination due to Retirement, Disability or death (except as otherwise provided by the Committee or an employment agreement between the Company and the Participant).  Upon termination of the Participants employment for any reason other than Retirement, Disability or death, any Award may be exercised or received by the Participant, the Participants designated beneficiary or legal representative or permitted transferee at any time on or prior to the earlier of the expiration date of the Award or the expiration of ninety days after the date of termination but only if, and to the extent that the Participant was entitled to exercise or receive the Award at the date of termination and subject to such other terms and conditions as may be specified in the Award and the Plan.  All Awards or any portion thereof not yet vested or exercisable on the date of termination other than by reason of Retirement, Disability or death shall terminate immediately on the date of termination (except as otherwise provided by the Committee or an employment agreement between the Company and the Participant).
Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, an authorized leave of absence pursuant to a written agreement or other leave entitling the Participant to reemployment in a comparable position by law or Rule shall not constitute a termination of employment for purposes of the Plan unless the Participant does not return at or before the end of the authorized leave or within the period for which re-employment is guaranteed by law or Rule.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee has the authority to prescribe different rules that apply upon the termination of employment of a particular Participant, which shall be memorialized in the Participants original or amended Award or similar document.
 
 
15.       ADJUSTMENT OF AWARDS
 
In the event of any change in the capital stock of the Company by reason of any stock dividend, stock split, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, combination, or exchange of shares, or rights offering to purchase capital stock at a price substantially below fair market value, or of any similar change affecting the capital stock, the number and kind of shares authorized under Section 4 for the Plan (including, to the extent permitted by Code Section 162(m), the limit in Section 4 on Awards to any Participant in any fiscal year), the number and kind of shares which thereafter are subject to an Award under the Plan and the number and kind of unexercised Stock Options or Other Stock-Based Awards and the number of Shares of Restricted Stock and the price per share shall be adjusted automatically consistent with such change to prevent substantial dilution or enlargement of the rights granted to, or available for, Participants in the Plan.
16.       NO EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS
 
The Plan and any Awards granted under the Plan shall not confer upon any Participant any right with respect to continuance as an employee of the Company, nor shall the Plan or such Awards interfere in any way with the right of the Company to terminate the Participants position as an employee or director at any time.
17.       RIGHTS AS A SHAREHOLDER
The recipient of any Award under the Plan shall have no rights as a shareholder with respect thereto unless and until certificates for the underlying Shares are issued to the recipient, except as otherwise specifically provided by the Committee.
18.       SECTION 162(m) CONDITIONS
It is the intent of the Company that all Awards that are intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Code Section 162(m) be granted and interpreted in a manner to satisfy all applicable requirements of Code Section 162(m).  Any provision, application or interpretation of the Plan inconsistent with this intent to satisfy the standards in Code Section 162(m) shall be disregarded.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, the provisions of the Plan may at any time be bifurcated by the Committee in any manner so that certain provisions of the Plan or any Award intended (or required in order) to satisfy the applicable requirements of Code Section 162(m) may be applicable only to Covered Employees.
19.       SECTION 409A CONDITIONS
This Plan is intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A with respect to Section 409A Awards, and shall be interpreted and administered in accordance with that intent.  If any provision of the Plan would otherwise conflict with or frustrate this intent, the provision shall not apply to a Section 409A Award.  For Section 409A Awards, all rights to amend, terminate or modify the Plan or any Award, including any discretionary rights or powers the Committee may have with respect to an Award, are subject to the requirements and limitations of Section 409A.
 
 
20.       AMENDMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE
The Plan and any Award outstanding under the Plan may be amended, modified or terminated by the Committee at any time and all Awards shall be subject to the Plan, as amended from time to time, except that the Committee may not, without approval of the Participant to whom the Award was granted or his legal representative or permitted transferee adversely affect the rights of such person under such Award.  No amendment, modification, or termination of the Plan shall be effective without stockholder approval if such approval is required under applicable law or Rule or any regulation of the stock market on which the Class A Stock is traded.
21.       CHANGE IN CONTROL
(a)           Notwithstanding other provisions of the Plan, in the event of a Change in Control of the Company, all of a Participants Awards shall become immediately vested and exercisable or fully earned at the maximum amount, except with respect to Covered Employees for performance based compensation or as otherwise determined by the Committee.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Section 21 shall not affect the timing of payment of a Section 409A Award (including vesting if vesting affects the timing of payment) unless the Change in Control also constitutes a change in ownership or effective control of the Company or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company within the meaning of Section 409A.
(b)           In the event of a Change in Control, in the discretion of the Committee, each Participant who is a Section 16 insider with respect to whom the Change in Control might result in a violation under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, may receive, in exchange for the surrender of the Stock Option, an amount of cash equal to the difference between the fair market value (based on the kind and amount of any securities, cash, other property or other consideration to be received with respect to each Share in the Change in Control transaction as determined by the Committee) of the Shares covered by the Award and the option price of such Shares under the Stock Option or to receive, in exchange for any other Award, an amount of cash equivalent to such fair market value had the Participant received the Shares or other compensation as intended under the Award prior to the Change in Control.
(c)           Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Plan and any Awards outstanding under the Plan shall be binding upon any successor to the Company, whether such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation or other acquisition of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.
22.       PARTICIPANTS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Committee shall have the authority to adopt such modifications, procedures, and subplans, in each case which may differ from the terms specified in this Plan, as may be necessary or desirable to comply with provisions of the laws of foreign countries in which the Company or its Subsidiaries may operate to assure the viability of the benefits from Awards granted to Participants performing services in such countries and to meet the objectives of the Plan.
 
 
23.       GOVERNING LAW
The Plan and any Award made pursuant to it shall be construed under the laws of the State of Delaware.
Date of Stockholder Approval:  December 6, 2007
Capitalized terms used in the Plan shall have the meanings set forth below:
means any grant of Stock Options, Restricted Stock, Stock Appreciation Rights  or Other Stock-Based Award under the Plan.
Award
means, solely for the purposes of the Plan, gross negligence or willful misconduct or commission of a felony or an act of moral turpitude determined by the Committee to be detrimental to the best interests of the Company or, if the Participant is subject to a written agreement with the Company cause shall have the meaning set forth in that agreement.
Cause
means:
Change in Control
(a)           there shall be consummated
(i)  any consolidation or merger of the Company in which the Company is not the continuing or surviving corporation or pursuant to which any Shares are to be converted into cash, securities or other property, provided that the consolidation or merger is not with a corporation which was a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company or a parent of the Company immediately before the consolidation or merger; or
(ii)  any sale, lease, exchange or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all, or substantially all, of the assets of the Company; or
(b)           the stockholders of the Company approve any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or
(c)           any person (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) shall become the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of 30% or more of the voting control of the Companys then outstanding common stock, provided that such person shall not be a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company immediately before it becomes such 30% beneficial owner of voting control; or
(d)           individuals who constitute the Companys Board of Directors on the date hereof (the Incumbent Board) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof, provided, however, that any person becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Companys shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least three quarters of the directors comprising the Incumbent Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director without objection to such nomination) shall be, for purposes of this clause (d), considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board.
 
means the class A common stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company.
Class A Stock
means the class 1 common stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company.
Class 1 Stock
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
means Constellation Brands, Inc. and its Subsidiaries, except where the context indicates that only the parent company is intended.
Company
means the committee appointed from time to time by the Companys Board of Directors to administer the Plan (the Committee).  The full Board of Directors, in its discretion, may act as the Committee under the Plan, whether or not a Committee has been appointed, and shall do so with respect to grants of Awards to non-employee directors.  The Committee may delegate to one or more members of the Committee or officers of the Company, individually or acting as a committee, any portion of its authority, except as otherwise expressly provided in the Plan.  In the event of a delegation to a member of the Committee, officer or a committee thereof, the term Committee as used herein shall include the member of the Committee, officer or committee with respect to the delegated authority.  Notwithstanding any such delegation of authority, the Committee comprised of members of the Board of Directors and appointed by the Board of Directors shall retain overall responsibility for the operation of the Plan.
Committee
means the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the four other most highly compensated officers of the Company as such term is defined under the Rules promulgated under Section 162(m) of the Code and such other officers as may be designated by the Committee.
Covered Employee
means, unless the Committee specifies otherwise in a Participants Award document, a termination of employment due to the inability of a Participant to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or which has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than six months, all as verified by a physician acceptable to, or selected by, the Committee.
Disability
means (a) items presented as such (or other comparable terms) on the Companys audited financial statements, (b) extraordinary, unusual or nonrecurring items of gain or loss, (c) changes in tax or accounting laws or Rules, and (d) the effects of mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, spin offs or significant transactions, each of which are identified in the audited financial statements and notes thereto or in the managements discussion and analysis of the financial statements in a period report filed with the SEC under the Exchange Act.
Extraordinary Items
of a Share means (a) with respect to a Share of Class A Stock, the closing price of the Class A Stock on the New York Stock Exchange or other national stock exchange on which the Class A Stock is actively traded for the date as reported in the Wall Street Journal, Eastern Edition or such other standard reference service as the Committee may select, and (b) with respect to a Share of Class 1 Stock, (i) the closing price of the Class A Stock on the
Fair Market Value
 
 
New York Stock Exchange or other national stock exchange on which the Class A Stock is actively traded for the date as reported in the Wall Street Journal, Eastern Edition or such other standard reference service as the Committee may select, or (ii) if the Committee shall determine that the fair market value of a share of Class A Stock is not a reasonable proxy for the fair market value of a share of Class 1 Stock, such fair market value as shall be determined by the Committee or calculated in accordance with one or more methodologies established by the Committee as such methodologies may be modified or adjusted from time to time by the Committee.
means the Internal Revenue Service and, if the context permits, the courts interpreting the Code.
IRS
means an Award granted pursuant to Section 8 of the Plan which is subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions set forth in the instrument evidencing the Award.
Other Stock-Based Award
 
means any employee of the Company or non-employee director of the Company who has received an Award under the Plan.
Participant
means one or more of the following performance criteria selected by the Committee with respect to any performance-based Award: (a) increases in the Fair Market Value of a share of Class A Stock, (b) shareholder value added, (c) cash flow, (d) earnings per share, (e) earnings of the Company before deducting interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, (f) return on equity, (g) return on capital, (h) return on assets or net assets, (i) cost reduction or control, (j) operating income or net operating income, (k) operating margins/sales in one or more business segments or product lines, (l) return on operating revenue, (m) market share in one or more business segments or product lines, (n) earnings before interest and taxes, (o) units of specified products sold or depleted, (p) free cash flow, (q) sales growth, (r) capital expenditures, (s) working capital, (t) inventory, (u) cash flow from operations or (v) gross margin. 
Performance Criteria
Performance criteria may be established on a corporate, divisional, business unit or consolidated basis and measured absolutely or relative to the Companys peers.
means the fiscal year or years or other period established by the Committee with respect to which the Performance Targets are set by the Committee.
Performance Period
means one or more specific objective goal or goals (which may be cumulative or alternative) that are timely set in writing by the Committee for each Participant for the applicable Performance Period with respect to any one or more of the Performance Criteria.
Performance Target
means the Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan of the Company (amended and restated as of December 6, 2007), as amended from time to time.
Plan
means Shares granted pursuant to Section 7 of the Plan which are subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions set forth in the instrument evidencing the Award.
Restricted Stock
means a termination of employment by an employee who is at least 60 years of age and after at least 10 years of service with the Company.  For an individual who
Retirement
 
 
becomes employed by the Company in connection with a business acquisition (regardless of the form of the transaction), service shall include the individuals service with the acquired business, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
means rules, regulations and interpretations issued by the governmental authority charged with administering any law and any judicial interpretations applicable thereto.
Rules
 
means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
means Code Section 409A and the regulations and guidance issued thereunder.
Section 409A
 
means an Award that is subject to and intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A.
Section 409A Award
means shares of Class A Stock or Class 1 Stock and, with respect to any particular Award, means the shares of Class A Stock or shares of Class 1 Stock to which such Award relates.
Shares
means any nonqualified Stock Option granted pursuant to Section 5 of the Plan which is subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions set forth in the instrument evidencing the Award and the Plan.
Stock Option
means (a) all corporations of which at least fifty percent of the voting stock is owned by the Company directly or through one or more corporations at least fifty percent of whose voting stock is so owned, and (b) partnerships or other entities in which the Company has, either directly or indirectly, at least a fifty percent interest in the capital or profits.
Subsidiaries
 
Other terms:  Any other terms used in the Plan which are defined in Sections 83, 162(m), 409A or 421 of the Internal Revenue Code as amended, or the Rules thereunder or corresponding provisions of subsequent laws and Rules in effect at the time Awards are made under the Plan, shall have the meanings set forth in such laws or Rules.
 

Exhibit 99.2
As of __________, 2007, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company) granted ____________ (the Participant) an option under the Companys Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan (the Plan) to acquire _______ shares of the Companys Class A common stock, par value $.01 per share (Class A Stock), at an exercise price of ________ per share (the Option).  New regulations adopted by the Internal Revenue Service with respect to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code may impose adverse tax consequences on the Participant with respect to the Option.  In order to reduce the likelihood of adverse tax consequences to the Participant under Section 409A, the Participant and the Company would like to amend the Option so that it represents an option to purchase the Companys Class 1 common stock, par value $.01 per share (Class 1 Stock), instead of Class A Stock and to make other conforming changes.  To effect such amendments, the Participant and the Company agree as follows:
 
 
Executed as of the ____ day of _______________, 2007.
 
 

 
 
The CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC. Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time (the Plan), enables Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company) to grant stock options to purchase Class 1 Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company (a Share or the Shares) to employees and non-employee directors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries (each, when granted a stock option, an Optionee).  The stock options represented by this Memorandum and the Stock Option Amendment to which this Memorandum is an Exhibit (respectively, the Options and the Memorandum and such Stock Option Amendment, together, the Documents) are subject to all of the terms and conditions contained in the Documents.  By entering into the Stock Option Amendment to which this Memorandum is an Exhibit, the Optionee agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Documents.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
                     
 
 
The CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC. Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time (the Plan), enables Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company) to grant stock options to purchase Class 1 Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company (a Share or the Shares) to employees and non-employee directors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries (each, when granted a stock option, an Optionee).  The stock options represented by this Memorandum and the Stock Option Amendment to which this Memorandum is an Exhibit (respectively, the Options and the Memorandum and such Stock Option Amendment, together, the Documents) are subject to all of the terms and conditions contained in the Documents.  By entering into the Stock Option Amendment to which this Memorandum is an Exhibit, the Optionee agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Documents.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.5
 
The CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC. Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time (the Plan), enables Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company) to grant stock options to purchase Class 1 Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company (a Share or the Shares) to employees and directors of the Company (each, when granted a stock option, an Optionee).  The stock options represented by this Memorandum and the Stock Option Amendment to which this Memorandum is an Exhibit (respectively, the Options and the Memorandum and such Stock Option Amendment, together, the Documents) are subject to all of the terms and conditions contained in the Documents.  By entering into the Stock Option Amendment to which this Memorandum is an Exhibit, the Optionee agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Documents.
2.         .
Exercise of Options
 
 
3.         .  As long as the Optionee continues to be a director of the Company, the Options may be exercised once they have vested and prior to their expiration.  If the Optionee ceases to be a director of the Company as a result of the Optionees death or disability, the Options shall all immediately vest.  For this purpose, disability means a long-lasting physical or mental impairment that prevents the Optionee from performing his/her duties as a director, as solely determined by the Board of Directors.  In addition, subject to Section 4 below, Options which have vested prior to the termination of the Optionees relationship with the Company (or which have vested pursuant as a result of the Optionees death or disability as set forth above) may be exercised by the Optionee, his designated beneficiary or legal representative or permitted transferee within one (1) year after the last day on which the Optionee was a member of the Board of Directors of the Company (the Termination Date).
Termination of Relationship
4.         p.
Limitations on Exercise Following Termination of Relationshi
 
 
 
 
 


