FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20070514172120.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Purchase Agreement
On May 9, 2007, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the "Company") and the subsidiary guarantors named therein (the "Guarantors") entered into a purchase agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") with Banc of America Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (the "Initial Purchasers") for the sale by the Company of $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7.25% Senior Notes due 2017 (the "Notes").
The closing of the sale of the Notes occurred on May 14, 2007. The Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). The Company offered and sold the Notes to the Initial Purchasers in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. The Initial Purchasers will resell the Notes in private transactions in compliance with Rule 144A or Regulation S under the Securities Act. The Company is using the net proceeds from the issuance of the Notes to reduce a corresponding amount of borrowings under the revolving portion of its senior credit facility.
The Initial Purchasers and their affiliates have performed and may in the future perform various investment banking, commercial banking and advisory services for the Company from time to time for which they have received or will receive customary fees and expenses. In particular, an affiliate of Citigroup Global Markets Inc is the counterparty in an accelerated share repurchase transaction entered into on May 6, 2007 and affiliates of both Initial Purchasers are lenders under the Company's senior credit facility, borrowings under which will be reduced with the net proceeds of the offering. The Initial Purchasers and their affiliates may, from time to time, engage in transactions with and perform services for the Company and its subsidiaries in the ordinary course of their business.
The Company has agreed to indemnify the Initial Purchasers against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the securities laws, or to contribute to payments the Initial Purchasers may be required to make because of any of those liabilities.
The description above is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by the Purchase Agreement, filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
Indenture
The Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of May 14, 2007 (the "Indenture"), by and among the Company, the Guarantors and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee").
The Notes will mature on May 15, 2017. Interest on the Notes will accrue from May 14, 2007 and will be payable semi-annually on November 15 and May 15 of each year, beginning November 15, 2007. The Notes will be the Company's senior unsecured obligations and will rank equally with all of the Company's other senior unsecured indebtedness and will be effectively subordinated to the indebtedness outstanding under the Company's senior credit facility from time to time and any other secured debt the Company may incur. The Notes will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior basis, jointly and severally, by the Company's subsidiaries that are guarantors under the Company's senior credit facility. Each guarantee will be effectively subordinated to any secured obligations of such subsidiary guarantors.
The Company may redeem the Notes in whole or in part at any time or in part from time to time, at its option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest (excluding interest accrued to the redemption date) on the Notes discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the applicable Treasury Rate (as defined in the Indenture) plus 50 basis points, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to the redemption date.
If the Company experiences a "Change of Control" (as defined in the Indenture), each holder of the Notes will have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part of such holder's Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
The Indenture contains covenants that, among other things, limit the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries under certain circumstances to incur liens and enter into sale-leaseback transactions and limit the ability of the Company to engage in mergers, consolidations, sales or other dispositions of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.
The Indenture also contains certain "Events of Default" customary for indentures of this type. If an "Event of Default" has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee or the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may, and the Trustee at the request of the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding shall, declare all unpaid principal of, premium, if any, and accrued interest on all the Notes to be due and payable.
An affiliate of the Trustee serves as trustee under the Company's other indentures. The Trustee may also serve as trustee under other indentures entered into by the Company. An affiliate of the Trustee is a lender under our senior credit facility. From time to time, we borrow from, maintain deposit accounts and conduct other banking transactions with affiliates of the Trustee in the ordinary course of business.
The description above is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by the Indenture, filed herewith as Exhibit 4.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
Registration Rights Agreement
In connection with the issuance of the Notes, on May 14, 2007, the Company, the Guarantors and the Initial Purchasers entered into a Registration Rights Agreement (the "Registration Rights Agreement") pursuant to which the Company and the Guarantors agreed, among other things, to use their reasonable best efforts to consummate a registered exchange offer for the Notes within 525 days after the date of initial issuance of the Notes. The Company and the Guarantors have agreed to file and keep effective for a certain time period a shelf registration statement for the resale of the Notes if an exchange offer cannot be effected and under certain other circumstances. The Company will be required to pay additional interest on the Notes if it fails to timely comply with its obligations under the Registration Rights Agreement until such time as it complies.
The description above is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by the Registration Rights Agreement, filed herewith as Exhibit 4.2 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
See Item 1.01 which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On May 14, 2007, the Company issued a news release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference, announcing the completion of a $700.0 million debt offering.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE: This Cross-Reference Table shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of this Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDENTURE, dated as of May 14, 2007, by and among CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), the guarantors signatory hereto (the "") and THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the "").
Company
Guarantors
Trustee
The Company has duly authorized the creation of one or more issues of 7.25% Senior Notes due 2017 and, to provide therefor, the Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture. All things necessary to make the Notes, when duly issued and executed by the Company, and authenticated and delivered hereunder, the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company, and to make this Indenture a legal, valid and binding agreement of the Company, have been done.
Each party agrees as follows for the benefit of the other parties and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders:
Section 1.01. .
Definitions
"144A Global Note(s)" means one or more Note(s) in the form set forth in , bearing the Private Placement Legend and the Global Note Legend and sold in reliance on Rule 144A.
Exhibit A
"Additional Interest" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
"Additional Notes" means Notes issued from time to time after the Issue Date under the terms of this Indenture (other than Notes issued pursuant to Sections 2.07, 2.08, 2.11, 3.06, and 4.09 of this Indenture).
"Affiliate" means, with respect to any specified Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person.
"Applicable Procedures" means, with respect to any transfer, exchange or other transaction involving a Global Note or beneficial interest therein, the rules and provisions of DTC to the extent applicable to such transaction and as in effect at the time of such transaction.
"Bankruptcy Law" means Title 11, United States Bankruptcy Code of 1978, as amended, or any similar United States Federal or state law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership, winding-up, liquidation, reorganization or relief of debtors or any amendment to, succession to or change in any such law.
"Board" or "Board of Directors" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company or (i) the Executive Committee, if any, of such Board of Directors, (ii) any other committee of such Board duly authorized to act under this Indenture, or (iii) any officers of the Company duly authorized by such Board of Directors or by any duly authorized committee of such Board to act under this Indenture.
"Book-Entry Interest" means an indirect beneficial interest in a Global Note shown on, and transferred only through, records maintained in book-entry form by DTC.
"Business Day" means a day that is not a day upon which banking institutions in the City of New York are authorized or required by law, or by executive order issued by a governmental authority or agency regulating such banking institutions, to close.
"Capital Lease Obligation" means any obligations of the Company and its Subsidiaries on a Consolidated basis under any capital lease of real or personal property which, in accordance with GAAP, has been recorded as a capitalized lease obligation.
"Capital Markets Debt" means any debt securities or debt financing issued pursuant to an indenture, notes purchase agreement or similar financing arrangement (but excluding any credit agreement) whether offered pursuant to a registration statement under the Securities Act or under an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
"Capital Stock" means, with respect to any Person, any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated, whether voting or non-voting) in equity of such Person, including, without limitation, all common stock and preferred stock.
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following events: (i) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), other than Permitted Holders, is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act, except that a Person shall be deemed to have beneficial ownership of all shares that such Person has the right to acquire, whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), directly or indirectly, of more than 30% of the voting power of the total outstanding Voting Stock of the Company voting as one class, that the Permitted Holders "beneficially own" (as so defined) a percentage of Voting Stock having a lesser percentage of the voting power than such other Person and do not have the right or ability by voting power, contract or otherwise to elect or designate for election a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company; (ii) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board of Directors of the Company (together with any new directors whose election to such Board or whose nomination for election by the shareholders of the Company was approved by a vote of 66 2/3% of the directors then still in office who were either directors at the beginning of such period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved) cease for any reason to constitute a majority of such Board of Directors then in office; (iii) the Company consolidates with or merges with or into any Person or conveys, transfers or leases all or substantially all of its assets to any Person, or any corporation consolidates with or merges into or with the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company is changed into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the Company's outstanding Voting Stock is not changed or exchanged at all (except to the extent necessary to reflect a change in the jurisdiction of incorporation of the Company) or where (A) the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company is changed into or exchanged for (x) Voting Stock of the surviving corporation or (y) cash, securities and other property (other than Capital Stock of the surviving corporation) and (B) no "person" or "group" other than Permitted Holders owns immediately after such transaction, directly or indirectly, more than the greater of (1) 30% of the voting power of the total outstanding Voting Stock of the surviving corporation voting as one class and (2) the percentage of such voting power of the surviving corporation held, directly or indirectly, by Permitted Holders immediately after such transaction; or (iv) the Company is liquidated or dissolved or adopts a plan of liquidation or dissolution other than in a transaction which complies with Section 5.01.
provided
"Change of Control Offer" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.09(a).
"Change of Control Purchase Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.09(a).
"Change of Control Purchase Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.09(b).
"Change of Control Purchase Price" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.09(a).
"Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
"Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act, or if at any time after the Issue Date such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
 
"Company" means Constellation Brands, Inc., a corporation incorporated under the laws of Delaware, until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed.
"Comparable Treasury Price" means (1) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
"Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio" of the Company means, for any period, the ratio of (a) the sum of Consolidated Net Income (Loss), Consolidated Interest Expense, Consolidated Income Tax Expense and Consolidated Non-cash Charges deducted in computing Consolidated Net Income (Loss) in each case, for such period, of the Company and its Subsidiaries on a Consolidated basis, all determined in accordance with GAAP to (b) the sum of Consolidated Interest Expense for such period and cash dividends paid on any of the Company's preferred stock and that of its Subsidiaries during such period; that (i) in making such computation, the Consolidated Interest Expense attributable to interest on any Funded Debt computed on a pro forma basis and (A) bearing a floating interest rate, shall be computed as if the rate in effect on the date of computation had been the applicable rate for the entire period and (B) which was not outstanding during the period for which the computation is being made but which bears, at the option of the Company, a fixed or floating rate of interest, shall be computed by applying at the Company's option, either the fixed or floating rate and (ii) in making such computation, the Consolidated Interest Expense of the Company attributable to interest on any Funded Debt under a revolving credit facility computed on a pro forma basis shall be computed based upon the average daily balance of such Funded Debt during the applicable period.
provided
"Consolidated Income Tax Expense" means for any period, as applied to the Company, the provision for federal, state, local and foreign income taxes of the Company and its Subsidiaries for such period as determined in accordance with GAAP on a Consolidated basis.
"Consolidated Interest Expense" of the Company means, without duplication, for any period, the sum of (a) the interest expense of the Company and its Subsidiaries for such period, on a Consolidated basis, including, without limitation, (i) amortization of debt discount, (ii) the net cost under interest rate contracts (including amortization of discounts), (iii) the interest portion of any deferred payment obligation and (iv) accrued interest, plus (b) (i) the interest component of the Capital Lease Obligations paid, accrued and/or scheduled to be paid or accrued by the Company and its Subsidiaries during such period and (ii) all capitalized interest of the Company and its Subsidiaries, in each case as determined in accordance with GAAP on a Consolidated basis. Whenever pro forma effect is to be given to an acquisition or disposition of assets for the purpose of calculating the Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio, the amount of Consolidated Interest Expense associated with any Funded Debt incurred in connection with such acquisition or disposition of assets shall be calculated on a pro forma basis in accordance with Regulation S-X under the Securities Act, as in effect on the date of such calculation.
"Consolidated Net Income (Loss)" of the Company means, for any period, the Consolidated net income (or loss) of the Company and its Subsidiaries for such period as determined in accordance with GAAP on a Consolidated basis, adjusted, to the extent included in calculating such net income (loss), by excluding, without duplication: (i) all extraordinary gains or losses (less all fees and expenses relating thereto); (ii) the portion of net income (or loss) of the Company and its Subsidiaries allocable to minority interests in unconsolidated Persons to the extent that cash dividends or distributions have not actually been received by the Company or one of its Subsidiaries; (iii) any gain or loss, net of taxes, realized upon the termination of any employee pension benefit plan; (iv) net gains (but not losses) (less all fees and expenses relating thereto) in respect of dispositions of assets other than in the ordinary course of business; or (v) the net income of any Subsidiary to the extent that the declaration of dividends or similar distributions by that Subsidiary of that income is not at the time permitted, directly or indirectly, by operation of the terms of its charter or any agreement, instrument, judgment, decree, order, statute, rule or governmental regulations applicable to that Subsidiary or its stockholders. Whenever pro forma effect is to be given to an acquisition
 
or disposition of assets for the purpose of calculating the Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio, the amount of income or earnings related to such assets shall be calculated on a pro forma basis in accordance with Regulation S-X under the Securities Act, as in effect on the date of such calculation.
"Consolidated Net Tangible Assets" means the aggregate amount of assets (less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items) after deducting therefrom (i) all current liabilities (excluding the current portion of any Funded Debt and any other current liabilities constituting Funded Debt by reason of being extendable or renewable) and (ii) all goodwill, trade names, trademarks, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense and other like intangibles, all as set forth on the books and records of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries and computed in accordance with GAAP.
"Consolidated Non-cash Charges" of the Company means, for any period, the aggregate depreciation, amortization and other non-cash charges of the Company and its Subsidiaries for such period, as determined in accordance with GAAP on a Consolidated basis (excluding any non-cash charge which requires an accrual or reserve for cash charges for any future period).
"Consolidation" means, with respect to any Person, the consolidation of the accounts of such Person and each of its Subsidiaries if and to the extent the accounts of such Person and each of its Subsidiaries would normally be consolidated with those of such Person, all in accordance with GAAP. The term "Consolidated" shall have a similar meaning.
"Corporate Trust Office" means the principal office of the Trustee at which at any time its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office at the dated hereof is located at 2 N. LaSalle Street, Suite 1020, Chicago, Illinois 60602, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor Trustee (or such other address as such successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company).
"Custodian" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(b).
"Default" means (1) any Event of Default or (2) any event, act or condition that, after notice or the passage of time or both, would be an Event of Default.
"Definitive Notes" means the Restricted Definitive Notes and the Unrestricted Definitive Notes.
"Depositary" means DTC or another Person designated as Depositary by the Company, which must be a clearing agency under the Exchange Act.
"DTC" means The Depository Trust Company.
"DTC Global Note" means a Global Note held in the name of Cede & Co. on behalf of DTC.
"Event of Default" means an event listed in Section 6.01, continued for the period of time, if any, and after the required notices, if any, therein designated.
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
"Exchange Notes" means any Additional Notes issued in an Exchange Offer pursuant to Section 2.07(e).
"Exchange Offer" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
"Funded Debt" means all indebtedness for the repayment of money borrowed, whether or not evidenced by a bond, debenture, note or similar instrument or agreement, having a final maturity of more than 12
 
months after the date of its creation or having a final maturity of less than 12 months after the date of its creation but by its terms being renewable or extendible beyond 12 months after such date at the option of the borrower. When determining "Funded Debt," indebtedness will not be included if, on or prior to the final maturity of that indebtedness, the Company has deposited the necessary funds for the payment, redemption or satisfaction of that indebtedness in trust with the proper depositary.
"GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, consistently applied, which are in effect on the Issue Date.
"Global Note Legend" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.16(b).
"Global Notes" or "Global Securities" means the 144A Global Note(s), the Regulation S Global Note(s) and any Unrestricted Global Notes.
"Guarantee" means the guarantee by each Guarantor of the Company's Indenture Obligations pursuant to a guarantee given in accordance with this Indenture, including the Guarantees by the Guarantors and any Guarantee delivered pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.08.
"Guarantor" means each Subsidiary of the Company on the Issue Date that guarantees the Senior Credit Facility, and each other Person that is required to, or at the election of the Company does, become a Guarantor after the Issue Date pursuant to Section 4.08, in each case, until such Person is released from its Guarantee in accordance with the terms of this Indenture.
"Holders" mean the registered holders of the Notes.
"Indenture Obligations" means the obligations of the Company and any other obligor under this Indenture or under the Notes, including any Guarantor, to pay principal of, premium, if any, and interest when due and payable, and all other amounts due or to become due under or in connection with this Indenture, the Notes and the performance of all other obligations to the Trustee and the Holders under this Indenture and the Notes, according to the terms hereof or thereof.
"Independent Investment Banker" means any of Banc of America Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., and their successors, or, if Banc of America Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. are unwilling or unable to select the Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
"Initial Notes" means the Notes issued on the Issue Date.
"Insolvency or Liquidation Proceeding" means, with respect to any Person, any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of such Person, or any bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, receivership or similar proceeding with respect to such Person, whether voluntary or involuntary.
"interest" means, with respect to the Notes, interest and Additional Interest, if any, on the Notes.
"Interest Payment Date" means each semiannual interest payment date on May 15 and November 15 of each year, commencing on November 15, 2007.
"Issue Date" means May 14, 2007.
"Lien" means any mortgage, charge, pledge, lien (statutory or otherwise), security interest, hypothecation or other encumbrance upon or with respect to any property of any kind, real or personal, movable or immovable, now owned or hereafter acquired.
 
"Maturity" when used with respect to any Note means the date on which the principal of such Note becomes due and payable as therein provided or as provided in this Indenture, whether upon such date or the redemption date and whether by declaration of acceleration, Change of Control, call for redemption or otherwise.
"Notes" means the Initial Notes, any Exchange Notes and any other Additional Notes, treated as a single class of securities, as amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof, that are issued pursuant to this Indenture.
"Officer's Certificate" means a certificate signed by the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, President, any Vice President (regardless of Vice Presidential designation), Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer of the Company, in its capacity as such officer of the Company and delivered to the Trustee. Each such certificate shall include the statements provided in Section 11.05, if and to the extent required by the provisions thereof.
"Opinion of Counsel" means an opinion in writing signed by legal counsel (who may be an employee of the Company) and delivered to the Trustee. Such opinion shall include the statements provided for in Section 11.05, if and to the extent required by the provisions thereof.
"Participant" means, with respect to DTC, Persons who have accounts with DTC.
"Paying Agent" has the meaning provided in Section 2.03.
"Permitted Holders" means (a) the Estate of Marvin Sands, Marilyn Sands, her descendants (whether by blood or adoption), her descendants' spouses, Hudson Ansley, Lindsay Caleo, William Caleo, Courtney Winslow, or Andrew Stern, or the estate of any of the foregoing Persons, or The Sands Family Foundation, Inc., (b) trusts which are for the benefit of any combination of the Persons described in clause (a), or any trust for the benefit of any such trust, or (c) partnerships, limited liability companies or any other entities which are controlled by any combination of the Persons described in clause (a), the estate of any such Persons, a trust referred to in the foregoing clause (b) or an entity that satisfies the conditions of this clause (c).
"Permitted Liens" means the following types of Liens:
(1) Liens existing as of the Issue Date (excluding Liens securing the Senior Credit Facility) on any Property or assets owned or leased by the Company or any Subsidiary;
(2) Liens securing any obligations under the Senior Credit Facility in an amount not to exceed the maximum amount permitted to be outstanding under the Senior Credit Facility on the Issue Date (including the incremental credit facility contemplated thereunder);
(3) Liens on Property or assets of, or any shares of stock securing Funded Debt of, any corporation or other Person existing at the time such corporation or other Person becomes a Subsidiary;
(4) Liens on Property, assets or shares of stock securing Funded Debt existing at the time of an acquisition, including an acquisition through merger or consolidation, and Liens to secure Funded Debt incurred prior to, at the time of or within 180 days after the later of the completion of the acquisition, or the completion of the construction and commencement of the operation of any such Property, for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or construction cost of that Property;
(5) Liens on any Property or assets to secure all or any portion of the cost of development, operation, construction, alteration, repair or improvement of all or any part of such Property or assets, or to secure Funded Debt incurred prior to, at the time of or within 180 days after the completion of such development, operation, construction, alteration, repair or improvement for the purpose of financing all or any part of such costs;
 
(6) Liens in favor of, or which secure Funded Debt owing to, the Company or a Subsidiary;
(7) Liens arising from the assignment of moneys due and to become due under contracts between the Company or any Subsidiary and the United States of America, any State, Commonwealth, Territory or possession thereof or any agency, department, instrumentality or political subdivision of any thereof; or Liens in favor of the United States of America, any State, Commonwealth, Territory or possession thereof or any agency, department, instrumentality or political subdivision of any thereof, to secure progress, advance or other payments pursuant to any contract or provision of any statute, or pursuant to the provisions of any contract not directly or indirectly in connection with securing any Funded Debt;
(8) Liens arising by reason of any attachment, judgment, decree or order of any court or other governmental authority, so long as such Lien is adequately bonded and any appropriate legal proceedings which may have been initiated for review of such attachment, judgment, decree or order shall not have been finally terminated or so long as the period within which such proceedings may be initiated shall not have expired;
(9) any deposit or pledge as security for the performance of any bid, tender, contract, lease or undertaking not directly or indirectly in connection with the securing of any Funded Debt; any deposit or pledge with any governmental agency required or permitted to qualify the Company or any Subsidiary to conduct business, to maintain self-insurance or to obtain the benefits of any law pertaining to worker's compensation, unemployment insurance, pensions, social security or similar matters, or to obtain any stay or discharge in any legal or administrative proceedings; deposits or pledges to obtain the release of mechanics', workers', repairmen's, materialmen's or warehousemen's liens on the release of property in the possession of a common carrier; any security interest created in connection with the sale, discount or guarantee of notes, chattel mortgages, leases, accounts receivable, trade acceptances or other paper, or contingent repurchase obligations, arising out of sales of merchandise in the ordinary course of business; liens for taxes not yet due and payable or being contested in good faith; any deposit or pledge in connection with appeal or surety bonds; or other deposits or pledges similar to those referred to in this clause (9);
(10) Liens created after the Issue Date on Property leased to or purchased by the Company or any Subsidiary after that date and securing, directly or indirectly, obligations issued by a State, a Territory or a possession of the United States of America, or any political subdivision of any of the foregoing, or the District of Columbia, to finance the cost of acquisition or cost of construction of such Property;
(11) Liens arising from survey exceptions, title defects, encumbrances, easements, reservations of, or rights of others for, rights of way, sewers, electric lines, telegraph or telephone lines and other similar purposes or zoning or other restrictions as to the use of real property not interfering with the ordinary conduct of the business of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;
(12) Liens arising by operation of law in favor of mechanics, materialmen, laborers, employees or suppliers, incurred in the ordinary course of business for sums which are not yet delinquent or are being contested in good faith by negotiations or by appropriate proceedings which suspend the collection thereof;
(13) Liens arising from zoning restrictions, easements, licenses, reservations, provisions, covenants, conditions, waivers, restrictions on the use of property or minor irregularities of title (and with respect to leasehold interests, mortgages, obligations, Liens and other encumbrances incurred, created, assumed or permitted to exist and arising by, through or under a landlord or owner of the leased Property, with or without consent of the lessee), none of which materially impairs the use of any parcel of Property material to the operation of the business of the Company or any Subsidiary or the value of such Property for the purpose of such business; and
(14) any extension, renewal, substitution or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals, substitutions or replacements), as a whole or in part, of any Lien referred to in subparagraphs (1) through (13) above or the Funded Debt secured thereby; that (1) such extension, renewal, substitution or
provided
 
replacement Lien shall be limited to all or any part of the same Property or assets or shares of stock that secured the Lien extended, renewed, substituted or replaced (plus improvements on such Property and any other Property or assets not then constituting a Principal Property) and (2) the Funded Debt secured by such Lien at such time is not increased.
"Person" means any individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivisions thereof.
"Principal Property" means, as of any date, any building, structure or other facility, together with the land upon which it is erected and any fixtures which are a part of the building, structure or other facility, used primarily for manufacturing, processing or production, in each case located in the United States, and owned or leased or to be owned or leased by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, and in each case the net book value of which as of that date exceeds 2% of the Company's Consolidated Net Tangible Assets as shown on the consolidated balance sheet contained in the Company's latest filing with the Commission, other than any such land, building, structure or other facility or portion thereof which is a pollution control facility, or which, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, is not of material importance to the total business conducted by the Company and its Subsidiaries, considered as one enterprise.
"Private Placement Legend" has the meaning provided in Section 2.16(a).
"Property" means any asset, revenue or any other property, whether tangible or intangible, real or personal, including, without limitation, any right to receive income.
"Qualified Institutional Buyer" shall have the meaning specified in Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act.
"Redemption Date" when used with respect to any Note to be redeemed means the date fixed for such redemption pursuant to the terms of this Indenture.
"Redemption Price" means, with respect to any Note to be redeemed, the price fixed for such redemption pursuant to the terms of this Indenture.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means any of (1) Banc of America Securities LLC or Citigroup Global Markets Inc., or their successors; , , that if Banc of America Securities LLC or Citigroup Global Markets Inc. shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company will substitute another Primary Treasury Dealer and (2) any one other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Independent Investment Banker after consultation with the Company.
provided
however
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date.
"Registrar" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03.
"Registration Rights Agreement" means (i) the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of the Issue Date among the Company, the Guarantors and the initial purchasers of the Notes issued on the Issue Date and (ii) any other registration rights agreement entered into in connection with an issuance of Additional Notes in a private offering after the Issue Date.
"Regulation S" means Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act.
 
"Regulation S Global Note(s)" means one or more Notes in the form set forth in bearing the Private Placement Legend and the Global Note Legend.
Exhibit A
"Responsible Officer" shall mean, when used with respect to the Trustee, any officer within the corporate trust department of the Trustee, including any vice president, assistant vice president, assistant secretary, assistant treasurer, trust officer or any other officer of the Trustee who customarily performs functions similar to those performed by the Persons who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of such person's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
"Restricted Definitive Note" means a Definitive Note bearing the Private Placement Legend issued in registered form without coupons in a principal amount of $1,000 or integral multiples thereof.
"Restricted Definitive Notes" means any Notes that require the Private Placement Legend (or a substantially similar legend), that are in definitive form.
"Restricted Global Notes" means the 144A Global Note(s), the Regulation S Global Note(s) and any other Notes that require the Private Placement Legend (or a substantially similar legend), in each case as are held in global form.
"Restricted Notes" means the Restricted Global Note(s) and the Restricted Definitive Notes.
"Restricted Period" shall mean, with respect to any Regulation S Global Note, the 40 day distribution compliance period referred to in Regulation S with respect to such Regulation S Global Note.
"Restricted Security" has the meaning set forth in Rule 144(a)(3) promulgated under the Securities Act; that the Trustee shall be entitled to request and conclusively rely upon an Opinion of Counsel with respect to whether any Note is a Restricted Security.
provided
"Rule 144A" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act.
"Sale and Leaseback Transaction" means any transaction or series of related transactions pursuant to which the Company or a Subsidiary sells or transfers any property or asset in connection with the leasing, or the resale against installment payments, of such property or asset to the seller or transferor.
"Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
"Senior Credit Facility" means that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of June 5, 2006, by and among the Company, the guarantors named therein, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the other agents and lenders party thereto from time to time providing for loans and other credit extensions in an amount of up to $3,900,000,000, as amended by that certain amendment dated as of February 23, 2007, and as further amended, restated, modified, supplemented, substituted, replaced, renewed or refinanced from time to time, including any agreement or agreements extending the maturity of, or refinancing all or any portion of the indebtedness under such agreement, and any successor or replacement agreement or agreements with the same or any other borrowers, agents, creditors, lenders or group of creditors or lenders.
"Significant Subsidiary" means, as of any date of determination, any Subsidiary of the Company (i) whose revenues exceed 10% of the total revenues of the Company, or (ii) whose net worth exceeds 10% of the total stockholders' equity of the Company, in each case as of the end of the most recent fiscal year.
"Subsidiary" means any Person a majority of the equity ownership or the Voting Stock of which is at the time owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or by one or more other Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more other Subsidiaries.
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors
 
of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after the remaining life, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue will be determined and the Treasury Rate will be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month) or (2) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per year equal to the semiannual equivalent yield-to-maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
"Trust Indenture Act" or "TIA" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
"U.S. Dollars" or "$" means the lawful currency of the United States that is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts, as in effect from time to time.
"U.S. Government Obligations" means direct non-callable obligations of, or guaranteed by, the United States of America for the payment of which guarantee or obligations the full faith and credit of the United States is pledged.
"Unrestricted Definitive Note" means one or more Notes in the form set forth in that do not and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend and do not bear the Global Note Legend.
Exhibit A
"Unrestricted Global Note" means one or more Notes in the form set forth in that do not and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend and do not bear the Global Note Legend.
Exhibit A
"Unrestricted Notes" means the Unrestricted Global Notes and the Unrestricted Definitive Notes.
"Voting Stock" means, with respect to any Person, Capital Stock of any class or kind the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
Section 1.02. .
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act
Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the portion of such provision required to be incorporated herein in order for this Indenture to be qualified under the TIA is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
"" means the Notes and the Guarantees.
indenture securities
"" means a Holder.
indenture securityholder
"" means this Indenture.
indenture to be qualified
"" or "" means the Trustee.
indenture trustee
institutional trustee
"" means the Company or any other obligor on the Notes.
obligor on the indenture securities
All other terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined in the TIA by reference to another statute or defined by Commission rule have the meanings therein assigned to them.
 
Section 1.03. .
Rules of Construction
Unless the context otherwise requires:
(1) a term has the meaning assigned to it herein, whether defined expressly or by reference;
(2) an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with GAAP;
(3) "or" is not exclusive;
(4) words in the singular include the plural, and in the plural include the singular; and
(5) words used herein implying any gender shall apply to every gender.
Section 2.01. .
Form and Dating
(a) The Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of . The Notes issued on the Issue Date will be in the form of and title thereto will pass by delivery. The provisions in the form of the Notes contained in hereto are incorporated herein by reference. Notes will be issued in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof. The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rules or usage, including, with respect to any Notes, a legend relating to original issue discount, if applicable.
General.
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
(b) . Notes offered and sold to Qualified Institutional Buyers in reliance on Rule 144A shall be issued initially in the form of a 144A Global Note, which shall be duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided and deposited with the Trustee, as custodian (in such capacity, the "Custodian") on behalf of the Depositary. Notes offered and sold in reliance on Regulation S shall be issued initially in the form of a Regulation S Global Note, which shall be duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided and deposited with the Custodian on behalf of the Depositary. Notes issued and sold pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, issued pursuant to an effective exchange offer registration statement under the Securities Act for the Company's outstanding Notes, or issued in accordance with Sections 2.07(b)(iii) and 2.07(e), shall be issued in the form of Unrestricted Global Notes and deposited with the Custodian on behalf of the Depositary.
Global Notes
Each Global Note shall represent the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and shall provide that the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges, transfers of interests therein, redemptions and repurchases in accordance with the terms of this Indenture. Any endorsement of the Schedule to a Global Note to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby shall be made by the Registrar in accordance with Sections 2.07, 3.07 and 4.09 hereof.
Except as set forth in Section 2.07(a) hereof, the Global Notes may be transferred, in whole and not in part, only to a successor of the relevant Depositary on whose behalf such note is held.
(c) Definitive Notes issued upon transfer of a Book-Entry Interest or a Definitive Note, or in exchange for a Book-Entry Interest or a Definitive Note, shall be issued in accordance with this Indenture, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided.
Definitive Notes.
 
(d) . Neither the Depositary nor any of its Participants shall have any rights either under this Indenture or under any Global Note with respect to such Global Note held on their behalf by the Custodian. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Custodian or the Depositary or impair, as between the Custodian and the Depositary and its respective Participants, the operation of customary practices of the Depositary governing the exercise of the rights of an owner of a beneficial interest in any Global Note.
Book-Entry Provisions
(e) Each Note shall be dated the date of its authentication.
Dating.
Section 2.02. .
Execution and Authentication
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, President, Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer or any Vice President of the Company shall execute the Notes on behalf of the Company by manual or facsimile signature. The Company's seal may but need not be impressed, affixed, imprinted or reproduced on the Notes.
If the officer whose signature is on a Note no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates the Note or at any time thereafter, the Note shall be valid nevertheless.
A Note shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication on the Note. Such signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Note has been authenticated under this Indenture.
The Trustee shall authenticate the Initial Notes in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $700,000,000 upon receipt of an Officer's Certificate directing the Trustee to authenticate such Initial Notes and certifying that all conditions precedent to the issuance of such Initial Notes contained herein have been complied with. The Trustee shall authenticate Additional Notes thereafter in unlimited amounts (so long as permitted by the terms of this Indenture) for original issue upon receipt of an Officer's Certificate directing the Trustee to authenticate such Additional Notes and certifying that all conditions precedent to the issuance of such Additional Notes contained herein have been complied with; , , that such Additional Notes are to be issued (i) for sale pursuant to Rule 144A, (ii) for sale pursuant to Regulation S, (iii) in exchange for any Notes issued under this Indenture pursuant to Rule 144A or Regulation S or (iv) pursuant to a registered public offering. The Trustee shall authenticate Exchange Notes in accordance with Section 2.07.
provided
however
The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Notes. Unless limited by the terms of such appointment, an authenticating agent may authenticate Notes whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent. Such authenticating agent shall have the same rights as the Trustee in any dealings hereunder with the Company or with any of the Company's Affiliates.
Section 2.03. .
Registrar and Paying Agents
The Company shall maintain (i) an office or agency in the City of New York where Notes may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange (the "Registrar"), (ii) an office or agency in the City of New York (the "Paying Agent") where Definitive Notes may be presented for payment and (iii) an office or agency in the State of New York where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Notes and this Indenture may be served.
The Company may change the Paying Agent or the Registrar or appoint additional Registrars or additional Paying Agents and the terms "Registrar" and "Paying Agent" shall include any such additional Registrar or Paying Agent, as applicable. The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any such agent not a party to this Indenture acceptable to the Company and such agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such agent and, to the extent applicable, shall incorporate the provisions of the TIA. Without limiting the foregoing, each such agreement appointing a Paying Agent must contain provisions substantially to the
 
effect of Section 2.07 hereof. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee in writing of the name and address of any such agent. If the Company fails to maintain a Registrar or Paying Agent or fails to give the foregoing notice, the Trustee shall act as such and shall be entitled to appropriate compensation in accordance with Section 7.07.
The Registrar shall keep a register (the "Register") of any Definitive Notes and of their transfer and exchange.
The Company hereby appoints the Trustee through its office, located at 101 Barclay Street, Floor 8W, New York, New York 10286, as Registrar and Paying Agent. The Guarantors hereby appoint the Company at its address specified in Section 11.02 hereof as agent for service of notices and demands in connection with the Notes and this Indenture.
Section 2.04. .
Holders to Be Treated as Owners; Payments of Interest
(a) The Company, the Paying Agents, the Registrar, the Trustee and any agent of the Company, the Paying Agents, the Registrar or the Trustee may deem and treat the person in whose name any Definitive Note is registered as the absolute owner of such Note for the purpose of receiving payment of or on account of the principal of and, subject to the provisions of this Indenture, interest and any other amounts due on such Definitive Note and for all other purposes; and neither the Company, any Paying Agent, the Registrar, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company, any Paying Agent, the Registrar or the Trustee shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. The Company, the Paying Agents, the Registrar, the Trustee and any agent of the Company, the Paying Agents, the Registrar or the Trustee may treat the Holder of any Global Note as the absolute owner thereof for the purposes of receiving payment of or on account of the principal of and, subject to the provisions of this Indenture, interest and any other amounts due on, such Global Note and for all other purposes; and neither the Company, the Paying Agents, the Registrar, the Trustee, nor any agent of the Company, the Paying Agents, the Registrar or the Trustee shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. All such payments so made to any such Person, or upon his order, shall be valid, and, to the extent of the sum or sums so paid, effectual to satisfy and discharge the liability for moneys payable upon any Note.
(b) The Person in whose name any Definitive Note is registered at the close of business on any record date with respect to any Interest Payment Date shall be entitled to receive the interest, if any, payable on such Interest Payment Date notwithstanding any transfer or exchange of such Definitive Note subsequent to the record date and prior to such Interest Payment Date, except if and to the extent the Company shall default in the payment of the interest due on such Interest Payment Date, in which case such defaulted interest shall be paid in accordance with Section 2.13. The term "record date" as used with respect to any Interest Payment Date for the Notes shall mean the date specified as such in the terms of the Notes. Payments of interest on the Global Note will be made to the Holder of the Global Note on each Interest Payment Date; that, in the event of an exchange or transfer of a Book-Entry Interest in a Global Note for Definitive Notes subsequent to a record date or any special record date and prior to or on the related Interest Payment Date or other payment date under Section 2.13, any payment of the interest or Additional Interest payable on such payment date with respect to any such Definitive Note shall be made to the Holder of the Global Note, notwithstanding Section 2.13 or any other provision hereof to the contrary.
provided
Section 2.05. .
Paying Agent to Hold Money in Trust
Each Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of the Holders or the Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on the Notes, and the Company and the Paying Agents shall notify the Trustee of any default by the Company (or any other obligor on the Notes) in making any such payment. Money held in trust by any Paying Agent need not be segregated except as required by law and in no event shall any Paying Agent be liable for any interest on any money received by it hereunder. The Company at any time may require the Paying Agents to pay all money held by them to the Trustee and account for any funds disbursed and the Trustee may at any time during the continuance of any Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(a) or (b), upon written request to such Paying Agents, require such Paying Agents to pay forthwith all money so held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds disbursed. Upon making such payment, a Paying Agent shall have no further liability for the money delivered to the Trustee.
 
If the Company acts as its own Paying Agent for the Notes, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on the Notes, set aside and segregate and held in trust for the benefit of the holders of the Notes a sum sufficient to pay such principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, and will notify the Trustee of such action or any failure to take such action.
Section 2.06. .
Holder Lists
The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it from the Registrar of the names and addresses of the Holders of Definitive Notes, if any. If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee and each Paying Agent at least five Business Days before each Interest Payment Date, and at such other times as they may request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as they may reasonably require of the names and addresses of the Holders of Definitive Notes, if any.
Section 2.07. .
Transfer and Exchange; Book-Entry Provisions
(a) . Transfer of the Global Notes shall be by delivery. Global Notes may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 2.08 and 2.11. Every Note authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Note or any portion thereof, pursuant to Section 2.08 hereof, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Note. A Global Note may not be exchanged for Definitive Notes other than as provided in this Section 2.07(a) and in the Notes, subject to compliance with Section 2.07(c).
Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes
Owners of Book-Entry Interests shall receive Definitive Notes: (i) in whole or in part, if an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, upon the request delivered in writing to the Depositary or the Trustee; or (ii) in whole (but not in part), if the Depositary is at any time unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary and a successor Depositary, as the case may be, is not appointed by the Company within 90 days.
In such an event, the Registrar, subject to compliance with Section 2.07(c), shall issue Definitive Notes, registered in the name or names and issued in any approved denominations requested by or on behalf of the Depositary (in accordance with their respective customary procedures and based upon directions received from participants reflecting the beneficial ownership of Book-Entry Interests), and bearing the Private Placement Legend unless that legend is not required by applicable law.
(b) . In all cases, transfers of Book-Entry Interests between Global Notes shall require compliance with subparagraph (i) below, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
Transfer and Exchange of Book-Entry Interests Between Global Notes
(i) . In connection with all transfers and exchanges of Book-Entry Interests (other than transfers of Book-Entry Interests in connection with which the transferee takes delivery thereof in the form of a Book-Entry Interest in the same Global Note or transfers or exchanges resulting in the delivery of one or more Definitive Notes), the transferor of such Book-Entry Interest must deliver to the Registrar (1) a written and/or electronic order from a Participant or an indirect participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to debit or cause to be debited a Book-Entry Interest in a Global Note in an amount equal to the Book-Entry Interest to be transferred or exchanged, (2) a written and/or electronic order from a Participant or an indirect participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a Book-Entry Interest in another Global Note in an amount equal to the Book-Entry Interest to be transferred or exchanged and (3) written and/or electronic instructions given in accordance with the Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase.
General Provisions Applicable to Transfers and Exchanges of Book-Entry Interests between Global Notes
 
The requirements of this Section 2.07(b)(i) shall be deemed to have been satisfied in connection with any Exchange Offer upon receipt by the Registrar of instructions contained in a letter of transmittal delivered by any Holder tendering Book-Entry Interests in a Restricted Global Note in such Exchange Offer.
(ii) . A Book-Entry Interest in any Restricted Global Note may be transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Book-Entry Interest in a different Restricted Global Note if the transfer complies with the requirements of Section 2.07(b)(i) above and the Registrar receives the following:
Transfer of Book-Entry Interests in a Restricted Global Note to Another Restricted Global Note
(A) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a Book-Entry Interest in a 144A Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (1) or (3) thereof, together, in the case of (3), such additional documentation as may be required by the Trustee and the Company pursuant to the penultimate sentence of the Private Placement Legend, and
Exhibit C
(B) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a Book-Entry Interest in a Regulation S Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof.
Exhibit C
Upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in this Section 2.07(b)(ii), the Registrar shall (i) instruct the Depositary to deliver the relevant Global Note(s) to it, (ii) endorse the Schedule to the relevant Global Note(s) to reflect the relevant increase or decrease in the principal amount of such Global Note resulting from the applicable transfer, and (iii) thereafter, return the Global Notes to the Depositary, together with all information regarding the Participant accounts to be credited and debited in connection with such transfer.
(iii) . A Book-Entry Interest in any Restricted Global Note may be exchanged by any holder thereof for a Book-Entry Interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Book-Entry Interest in an Unrestricted Global Note if the exchange or transfer complies with the requirements of Section 2.07(b)(i) above and such transfer is effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and in compliance with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act and the transferor delivers a certificate in the form of hereto including the certifications contained in item (4) thereof.
Transfer and Exchange of Book-Entry Interests in a Restricted Global Note for Book-Entry Interests in an Unrestricted Global Note
Exhibit C
Upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in this Section 2.07(b)(iii), the Registrar shall (i) instruct the Custodian to deliver the relevant Global Note(s) to it, (ii) endorse the Schedule to the relevant Global Note(s) to reflect the relevant increase or decrease in the principal amount of such Global Note resulting from the applicable transfer, and (iii) thereafter, return the Global Notes to the Custodian, together with all information regarding the Participant accounts to be credited and debited in connection with such exchange or transfer.
If any such transfer or exchange is effected pursuant to this Section 2.07(b)(iii) at a time when an Unrestricted Global Note has not yet been issued, the Registrar shall so inform the Trustee and the Company and, thereafter, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an authentication order in the form of an Officer's Certificate from the Company in accordance with Section 2.02 hereof, the Trustee shall authenticate, one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of Book-Entry Interests to be transferred or exchanged.
(c) . In all cases in connection with an exchange of a Book-Entry Interest for a Definitive Note (which in any event is limited to the circumstances contemplated by Section 2.07(a)), the Registrar must receive (1) a written and/or electronic order from a Participant or an indirect participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to debit or cause to be debited a Book-Entry Interest in an amount equal to the Book-Entry Interest to be exchanged, (2) a written order directing the Registrar to issue or cause to be issued a Definitive Note in an amount equal to the Book-Entry Interest to be exchanged and (3) instructions containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Definitive Note shall be registered to effect the exchange referred to above; provided, that no Definitive Note shall be exchanged for a Book-Entry Interest in a Regulation S Global Note prior to the termination of the Restricted Period with respect to such Regulation S Global Note.
Exchange of Book-Entry Interests for Definitive Notes
 
(i) . A holder of a Book-Entry Interest in a Restricted Global Note may exchange such Book-Entry Interest for a Restricted Definitive Note if the exchange complies with the first paragraph of this Section 2.07(c) and the Registrar receives a certificate from such holder in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
Book-Entry Interests in Restricted Global Notes to Restricted Definitive Notes
Exhibit D
Upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in this Section 2.07(c)(i), the Registrar shall (i) instruct the Custodian to deliver the relevant Global Note(s) to it, (ii) endorse the Schedule to the relevant Global Note(s) to reflect the relevant decrease in the principal amount of such Global Note resulting from the applicable transfer or exchange, (iii) thereafter, return the Global Note to the Custodian together with all information regarding the Participant accounts to be debited in connection with such exchange or transfer and (iv) deliver to the Registrar instructions received by it that contain information regarding the Person in whose name Definitive Notes shall be registered to effect such exchange.
The Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an authentication order in the form of an Officer's Certificate from the Company in accordance with Section 2.02 hereof, the Trustee shall authenticate, one or more Definitive Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of Book-Entry Interests so exchanged and in the names set forth in the instructions received by the Registrar.
(ii) . A holder of a Book-Entry Interest in an Unrestricted Global Note may exchange such Book-Entry Interest for a Definitive Note that does not bear the Private Placement Legend if the exchange complies with the first paragraph of this Section 2.07(c). Upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in this Section 2.07(c)(ii), the Registrar shall (i) instruct the Custodian to deliver the relevant Global Note(s) to it, (ii) endorse the Schedule to the relevant Global Note(s) to reflect the relevant decrease in the principal amount of such Global Note resulting from the exchange, (iii) thereafter, return the Global Note to the Custodian together with all information regarding the Participant accounts to be debited in connection with such exchange and (iv) deliver to the Registrar instructions received by it that contain information regarding the Person in whose name Definitive Notes shall be registered to effect such exchange.
Book-Entry Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes
The Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an authentication order in the form of an Officer's Certificate from the Company in accordance with Section 2.02 hereof, the Trustee shall authenticate, one or more Definitive Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of Book-Entry Interests so exchanged and in the names set forth in the instructions received by the Registrar.
Book-Entry Interests in an Unrestricted Global Note cannot be exchanged for a Book-Entry Interest in a Restricted Global Note, nor can such Book Entry Interests be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Note.
(d) . In all cases in connection with any transfer or exchange of Definitive Notes, the Holder of such Notes shall surrender to the Registrar the Definitive Notes for transfer or exchange duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by its attorney, duly authorized in writing. In addition, the requesting Holder shall provide any additional certifications, documents and information, as applicable, required pursuant to the following provisions of this Section 2.07(d). Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Notes and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 2.07(d), the Registrar shall register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Notes.
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Definitive Notes
(i) . Any Restricted Definitive Note may be transferred to and registered in the name of Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Note if the Registrar receives the following:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Restricted Definitive Notes
(A) if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; and
Exhibit C
 
(B) if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 903 under the Securities Act or Rule 904 under the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof.
Exhibit C
(ii) . Any Restricted Definitive Note may be exchanged by the Holder thereof for an Unrestricted Definitive Note or transferred to a Person or Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note if any such transfer is effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and in compliance with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act and the transferor delivers a certificate in the form of hereto including the certifications contained in item (4) thereof.
Restricted Definitive Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes
Exhibit C
(iii) . A Holder of Unrestricted Definitive Notes may transfer such Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note. Upon receipt of a request to register such a transfer, consisting of the Note duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer, in form satisfactory to the Company and the Registrar, duly executed by the Holder or his attorney duly authorized in writing, the Registrar shall register the Unrestricted Definitive Notes pursuant to the instructions from the Holder thereof.
Unrestricted Definitive Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes
(e) . Upon the occurrence of any Exchange Offer, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an authentication order in the form of an Officer's Certificate in accordance with Section 2.02, the Trustee shall authenticate (i) one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Book-Entry Interests in the Restricted Global Notes tendered for acceptance by Persons that certify or are deemed to have certified that (x) they are not broker-dealers that acquired the Book-Entry Interests tendered in such Exchange Offer directly from the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, (y) they are not participating in a distribution of any Exchange Notes to be received in such Exchange Offer and (z) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company, and that are accepted for exchange in such Exchange Offer and (ii) Unrestricted Definitive Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Restricted Definitive Notes tendered for acceptance by Persons who certify to the effect set forth in (i) and that are accepted for exchange in such Exchange Offer.
Exchange Offers
In addition, the Paying Agent shall (i) endorse the Schedule to the Unrestricted Global Notes issued pursuant to the preceding paragraph to reflect the principal amount of Restricted Global Notes tendered in such Exchange Offer, (ii) deliver such Unrestricted Global Notes to the Custodian, (iii) instruct the Depositary to deliver the relevant Restricted Global Note(s), (iv) endorse the Schedule to such Restricted Global Note(s) to reflect the decrease in principal amount resulting from such Exchange Offer, and (v) thereafter, return the Restricted Global Notes to the Custodian, as the case may be, together with all information regarding the Participant accounts to be debited in connection with such Exchange Offer.
(f) . At such time as all Book-Entry Interests therein have been exchanged for Definitive Notes, a Global Note shall be returned to or retained and canceled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 2.12 hereof.
Cancellation of Global Notes
(g) .
General Provisions Relating to all Transfers and Exchanges
(i) Title to Global Notes will pass by delivery. To permit registration of transfers and exchanges of Definitive Notes, the Company shall execute and, upon the Company's order, the Trustee shall authenticate Definitive Notes at the Registrar's request.
(ii) No service charge shall be made to a Holder for any registration of transfer or exchange of any Definitive Note, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any stamp or transfer
 
tax, duty or governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such stamp or transfer taxes, duties or similar governmental charge payable upon exchange, redemption or purchase pursuant to Sections 2.11, 3.06, 3.07, 4.09 and 8.05 hereof).
(iii) All Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued upon any transfer or exchange of Global Notes or Definitive Notes shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Global Notes or Definitive Notes surrendered upon such transfer or exchange.
(iv) The Company shall not be required to register the transfer of any Definitive Notes:
(1) for a period of 15 calendar days prior to any date fixed for the redemption of the Notes;
(2) for a period of 15 calendar days immediately prior to the date fixed for selection of Notes to be redeemed in part;
(3) for a period of 15 calendar days prior to the record date with respect to any interest payment date; or
(4) which the holder has tendered (and not withdrawn) for repurchase in connection with a Change of Control Offer.
(v) Prior to due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any Definitive Note, the Trustee, the Paying Agents, the Registrar, any Agent and the Company may deem and treat the Person in whose name any Note is registered as the absolute owners of such Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such Notes and for all other purposes, and neither the Trustee, the Paying Agents, the Registrar, any Agent nor the Company shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
(vi) The Trustee shall authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 hereof.
Section 2.08. .
Replacement Notes
If a mutilated Definitive Note is surrendered to the Registrar or the Trustee, if a mutilated Global Note is surrendered to the Paying Agent or the Trustee, or if the Holder of a Note claims that the Note has been lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken, the Company shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate a replacement Note in such form as the Notes mutilated, lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken if, in the case of a lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken Note, the Holder of such Note furnishes to the Company, the Trustee, the Paying Agent (in the case of a Global Note) and/or the Registrar (in the case of a Definitive Note), evidence reasonably acceptable to them of the ownership and the destruction, loss or theft of such Note. If required by the Trustee, the Paying Agent (in the case of a Global Note), the Registrar (in the case of a Definitive Note) or the Company, an indemnity bond shall be posted, sufficient in the judgment of each to protect the Company, the Paying Agent (in the case of a Global Note), the Registrar (in the case of a Definitive Note) and the Trustee from any loss that any of them may suffer if such Note is replaced. The Company may charge such Holder for the Company's out-of-pocket expenses in replacing such Note and the Registrar or Paying Agent, as the case may be, may charge the Company for its expenses in replacing such Note. Every replacement Note shall constitute an additional obligation of the Company.
Section 2.09. .
Outstanding Notes
The Notes outstanding at any time are all Notes that have been authenticated by the Trustee except for (a) those canceled by it, (b) those delivered to it for cancellation, (c) to the extent set forth in Article Nine, on or after the date on which the conditions set forth in Article Nine have been satisfied, those Notes theretofore authenticated and delivered by the Trustee hereunder and (d) those described in this Section 2.09 as not outstanding. Subject to Section 2.10, a Note does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or one of its Affiliates holds the Note.
 
If a Note is replaced pursuant to Section 2.08, it ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Note is held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Note is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company.
If the appropriate Paying Agent holds, in its capacity as such, on any Maturity Date or on any optional redemption date, money sufficient to pay all accrued interest, if any, and principal with respect to the Notes payable on that date and is authorized and not prohibited from paying such money to the Holders thereof pursuant to the terms of this Indenture, then on and after that date such Notes shall cease to be outstanding and interest on the Notes shall cease to accrue.
Section 2.10. .
Treasury Notes
In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of Notes have concurred in any declaration of acceleration or notice of default or direction, waiver or consent or any amendment, modification or other change to this Indenture, Notes owned by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company shall be disregarded as though they were not outstanding, except that for the purposes of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such direction, waiver or consent or any amendment, modification or other change to this Indenture, only Notes that a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows are so owned shall be so disregarded.
Section 2.11. .
Temporary Notes
In the event that Definitive Notes are to be issued pursuant to Section 2.07(a) hereto, until Definitive Notes are prepared and ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and the Trustee shall upon receipt of a written order of the Company authenticate temporary Notes. Temporary Notes shall be substantially in the form of Definitive Notes but may have variations that the Company considers appropriate for temporary Notes. Without unreasonable delay, the Company shall prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate Definitive Notes in exchange for temporary Notes. Until such exchange, temporary Notes shall be entitled to the same rights, benefits and privileges as Definitive Notes.
Section 2.12. .
Cancellation
The Company at any time may deliver Notes to the Trustee for cancellation. The Registrar and each Paying Agent shall forward to the Trustee any Notes surrendered to them for registration of transfer, exchange, payment, redemption or purchase. The Trustee shall cancel all Notes surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, payment, redemption, replacement, cancellation or purchase and shall dispose of canceled Notes in accordance with its policy of disposal, unless the Company directs the Trustee to return such Notes to the Company, and, if so disposed, shall deliver a certificate of disposition thereof to the Company upon its request therefore. The Company may not reissue or resell, or issue new Notes to replace, Notes that the Company has redeemed, paid or purchased, or that have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation.
Section 2.13. .
Defaulted Interest
If the Company defaults on a payment of interest on the Notes, it shall pay the defaulted interest plus (to the extent permitted by law) any interest payable (at the rate borne by the Notes) on the defaulted interest, in accordance with the terms hereof, to (a) the Persons who are Holders of Definitive Notes, if any, on a subsequent special record date, which date shall be at least five Business Days prior to the payment date for such defaulted interest, and (b) if a Global Note is still outstanding, to the Holder of such Global Note on such payment date. The Company shall fix such special record date and payment date in a manner satisfactory to the Trustee. At least 15 days before such special record date, the Company shall mail to each Holder of Definitive Notes, if any, and if any Global Note is still outstanding, to the Depositary, a notice that states the special record date, if any, the payment date and the amount of defaulted interest, and interest payable on such defaulted interest, if any, to be paid.
 
Section 2.14. .
CUSIP and ISIN Number; Common Code
The Company may use a "CUSIP" number and may use an "ISIN" number and a common code, and if so, such CUSIP or ISIN number and common code shall be included in notices of redemption, repurchase or exchange as a convenience to Holders; , , that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness or accuracy of the CUSIP or ISIN number or common code printed in the notice or on the Notes, and that reliance may be placed only on any other identification numbers printed on the Notes. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee, each Paying Agent and the Registrar of any change in the CUSIP or ISIN number and the common code.
provided
however
Section 2.15. .
Deposit of Moneys; Payments by Paying Agent
Prior to 10:00 a.m. New York City time on each Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Maturity (unless the Company and the Paying Agent shall agree to another time), the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent in immediately available funds, an amount in U.S. Dollars sufficient to make cash payments, if any, due on such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Maturity, as the case may be.
Principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on any Global Notes shall be payable at the corporate trust office or agency of the Paying Agent in New York City maintained for such purposes. The Company shall pay such amounts in U.S. Dollars. All payments on the Global Notes shall be made by check or by transfer of immediately available funds to an account of the Holder of the Global Notes in accordance with instructions given by the Holder.
Principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on any Definitive Notes shall be payable at the corporate trust office or agency of the Registrar maintained for such purposes. In addition, interest on Definitive Notes may be paid by check mailed to the person entitled thereto as shown on the register for such Definitive Notes. The Company shall pay such amounts with respect to Definitive Notes in U.S. Dollars.
Section 2.16. .
Legends
(a) Each Restricted Note shall bear the following legend (the "") on the face thereof unless otherwise agreed to by the Company and the Holder thereof:
Private Placement Legend
"THE SECURITY (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) EVIDENCED HEREBY WAS ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER SECTION 5 OF THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION THEREFROM. EACH PURCHASER OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY IS HEREBY NOTIFIED THAT THE SELLER MAY BE RELYING ON THE EXEMPTION FROM THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5 OF THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A THEREUNDER. THE HOLDER OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY THAT: (A) SUCH SECURITY MAY BE RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED ONLY: (i) (a) TO A PERSON WHO IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, (b) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (c) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES TO A FOREIGN PERSON IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 903 OR RULE 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (d) TO AN INSTITUTIONAL "ACCREDITED INVESTOR" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 501(a)(1), (2), (3) OR (7) OF THE SECURITIES ACT) THAT, PRIOR TO SUCH TRANSFER, FURNISHES THE TRUSTEE A SIGNED LETTER CONTAINING CERTAIN REPRESENTATIONS AND AGREEMENTS (THE FORM OF WHICH CAN BE OBTAINED FROM THE TRUSTEE) AND, IF SUCH TRANSFER IS IN
 
RESPECT OF AN AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF NOTES LESS THAN $250,000, AN OPINION OF COUNSEL ACCEPTABLE TO THE COMPANY THAT SUCH TRANSFER IS IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (e) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANOTHER EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT (AND BASED UPON AN OPINION OF COUNSEL IF THE COMPANY SO REQUESTS), (ii) TO THE COMPANY, OR (iii) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND, IN EACH CASE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES OR ANY OTHER APPLICABLE JURISDICTION AND (B) THE HOLDER WILL, AND EACH SUBSEQUENT HOLDER IS REQUIRED TO, NOTIFY ANY PURCHASER FROM IT OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN (A) ABOVE. NO REPRESENTATION CAN BE MADE AS TO THE AVAILABILITY OF THE EXEMPTION PROVIDED BY RULE 144 FOR RESALE OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY."
(b) Each Global Note shall bear the following legend (the "Global Note Legend") on the face thereof:
"THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL NOTE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), OR A NOMINEE OF DTC OR A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY. TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL NOTE SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF DTC, OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL NOTE SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN SECTIONS 2.01 AND 2.07 OF THE INDENTURE. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT AND ANY SUCH CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN."
Section 3.01. .
Notices to Trustee
If the Company elects to redeem Notes pursuant to Section 3.07, at least 45 days prior to the Redemption Date or during such other period as the Trustee may agree to, the Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the Redemption Date, the principal amount of Notes to be redeemed and the Redemption Price, and deliver to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate stating that such redemption will comply with the conditions contained herein.
Section 3.02. .
Selection of Notes to Be Redeemed
In the event that less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed at any time pursuant to an optional redemption, selection of such Notes for redemption will be made by the Trustee on a basis, by lot or by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate (subject to the procedures of DTC); ,, that no Notes of a principal amount of $1,000 or less shall be redeemed in part. A new Note in a principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued in the name of the Holder thereof upon cancellation of the original Note.
pro rata
provided
however
Section 3.03. .
Notice of Redemption
The Notes will be redeemable in whole or in part upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior written notice. Notices to Holders of Definitive Notes shall also be mailed by first class mail at least 30 but not more than 60 calendar days before the Redemption Date to each Holder at its address appearing in the Register. For so long as any of the Notes are represented by the Global Notes, notice to Holders shall (in addition to publication as described above) also be given by substantially concurrent delivery of the relevant notice to DTC for communication to the holders of the Book-Entry Interests.
The notice shall identify the Notes to be redeemed (including the CUSIP/ISIN number(s) thereof) and shall state:
(1) the Redemption Date;
(2) the Redemption Price and the amount of accrued interest, if any, to be paid;
 
(3) the name, address and telephone number of the Paying Agent;
(4) that Notes called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent at the address specified to collect the Redemption Price plus accrued interest, if any;
(5) that, unless the Company defaults in making the redemption payment, interest on Notes called for redemption ceases to accrue on and after the Redemption Date and the only remaining right of the Holders is to receive payment of the Redemption Price plus accrued interest to the Redemption Date upon surrender of the Notes to the Paying Agent;
(6) that such Notes are being called for redemption pursuant to Section 3.07 of this Indenture; and
(7) if fewer than all the Notes are to be redeemed, the identification of the particular Notes (or portion thereof equal to $1,000 in principal amount or any integral multiple thereof) to be redeemed, as well as the aggregate principal amount of Notes to be redeemed and the aggregate principal amount of Notes to be outstanding after such partial redemption and that, on and after the Redemption Date, upon surrender of such Note, a new Note or Notes in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued.
Section 3.04. .
Effect of Notice of Redemption
Once the notice of redemption described in Section 3.03 is delivered or mailed, as the case may be, Notes called for redemption become due and payable on the Redemption Date and at the Redemption Price, including any premium, plus accrued interest to the Redemption Date, if any. Upon surrender to the Paying Agent, such Notes shall be paid at the Redemption Price, including any premium, plus accrued interest to the Redemption Date, if any; that if the Redemption Date is after a Record Date and on or prior to the Interest Payment Date, the accrued interest shall be payable to the Holder of any redeemed Definitive Notes registered on the relevant Record Date.
provided
Section 3.05. .
Deposit of Redemption Price
On or prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Business Day prior to each Redemption Date (unless the Company and the Paying Agent shall agree to another time), the Company shall have deposited with the Paying Agent in immediately available funds U.S. Dollars sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of and accrued interest on all Notes to be redeemed on that date.
On and after any Redemption Date, if U.S. Dollars sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of and accrued interest on Notes called for redemption shall have been made available in accordance with the preceding paragraph, the Notes called for redemption will cease to accrue interest and the only right of the Holders of such Notes will be to receive payment of the Redemption Price of and, subject to the proviso in Section 3.04, accrued and unpaid interest on such Notes to the Redemption Date. If any Note called for redemption shall not be so paid, interest will continue to accrue and be paid, from the Redemption Date until such redemption payment is made, on the unpaid principal of the Note and any interest not paid on such unpaid principal, in each case, at the rate and in the manner provided for in Section 2.13.
Section 3.06. .
Notes Redeemed in Part
Upon surrender of a Note that is redeemed in part, the Trustee shall authenticate for a Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to the unredeemed portion of the Note surrendered.
 
Section 3.07. .
Optional Redemption
The Notes will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time or in part from time to time at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed, and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (excluding interest accrued to the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the applicable Treasury Rate plus 50 basis points, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to the date of redemption.
Section 3.08. .
Sinking Fund
The Notes are not entitled to the benefit of any sinking fund.
Section 4.01. .
Payment of Notes
The Company will pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes on the dates and in the manner provided in the Notes and this Indenture (and, in the case of Additional Interest, the Registration Rights Agreement). An installment of principal or interest shall be considered paid on the date it is due if the Trustee or Paying Agent holds, for the benefit of the Holders, on that date U.S. Dollars designated for and sufficient to pay such installment in full and is not prohibited from paying such money to the Holders pursuant to the terms of this Indenture.
The Company will pay interest on overdue principal and interest on overdue interest, to the extent lawful as provided for in Section 2.13.
Section 4.02. .
Reports to the Trustee
(a) For so long as any Notes are outstanding, the Company will file with the Trustee, within 15 days after the Company files the same with the Commission, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports which the Company may be required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act (or copies of such portions thereof as may be prescribed by the Commission); or, if the Company is not required to file with the Commission information, documents or reports pursuant to either Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, then the Company will file with the Trustee and will file with the Commission, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed by the Commission, such of the supplementary and periodic information, documents and reports required pursuant to Section 13 of the Exchange Act in respect of a security listed and registered on a national securities exchange as may be prescribed in such rules and regulations. Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officer's Certificates).
(b) In addition to the reports required by clause (a) above, for so long as any Notes remain outstanding, the Company will furnish to the Holders and to securities analysts and prospective investors, upon their request, the information required to be delivered pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act.
 
Section 4.03. .
Waiver of Stay, Extension or Usury Laws
The Company and the Guarantors each covenant (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead (as a defense or otherwise) or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law or any usury law or other law which would prohibit or forgive the Company or any Guarantor from paying all or any portion of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest, on the Notes as contemplated herein, wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, or which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and (to the extent that they may lawfully do so) the Company and the Guarantors each hereby expressly waive all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
Section 4.04. .
Statement by Officers
Within 120 days after the close of each fiscal year, the Company will file with the Trustee a brief certificate from the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, President, Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer or Senior Vice President as to his or her knowledge of the Company's compliance with all conditions and covenants under this Indenture. For purposes of this paragraph, such compliance shall be determined without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided under this Indenture.
Section 4.05. .
Corporate Existence
Subject to Article Five hereof, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence and the rights (charter and statutory) and franchises of the Company; , , that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if the Company shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders.
provided
however
Section 4.06. .
Limitations on Liens
For so long as any Notes remain outstanding, the Company will not and will not permit any Subsidiary to issue, assume or guarantee any Funded Debt that is secured by a Lien (other than Permitted Liens) upon or with respect to any Principal Property or on the Capital Stock of any Subsidiary that owns a Principal Property unless:
(a) the Company secures the Notes equally and ratably with (or prior to) any and all Funded Debt secured by that Lien, or
(b) in the case of Funded Debt other than Capital Markets Debt, immediately after giving effect to the granting of any such Lien and the incurrence of any Funded Debt in connection therewith, the Company's Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio would be greater than 2.0 to 1.0.
Section 4.07. .
Limitation on Sale and Leaseback Transactions
For so long as any Notes remain outstanding, neither the Company nor any Subsidiary shall enter into any arrangement with any Person (other than the Company or any Subsidiary) whereby the Company or a Subsidiary agrees to lease any Principal Property (except for leases for a term of not more than three years) which has been or is to be sold or transferred more than 120 days after the later of the date (i) such Principal Property was acquired by the Company or a Subsidiary and (ii) of completion of construction and commencement of full operation thereof by the Company or a Subsidiary to that Person unless (a) the net proceeds to the Company or a Subsidiary from the sale or transfer equal or exceed the fair value, as determined by the Board of Directors, of the Principal Property so leased, (b) immediately after giving effect to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, the Company's Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio would be greater than 2.0 to 1.0, or (c) the Company, within 120 days after the effective date of the Sale and Leaseback Transaction, applies an amount equal to the fair value as determined by
 
the Company's Board of Directors of the Principal Property so leased to (x) the prepayment or retirement of the Company's Funded Debt, which may include the Notes, or (y) the acquisition of additional real property for the Company or any Subsidiary. A Sale and Leaseback Transaction shall not include any such arrangement for financing air, water or noise pollution control facilities or sewage or solid waste disposal facilities or involving industrial development bonds which are tax-exempt pursuant to Section 103 of the Code (or which receive similar tax treatment under any subsequent amendments thereto or successor laws thereof).
Section 4.08. .
Additional Guarantees
In the event the Company (i) organizes or acquires any Subsidiary after the Issue Date that is not a Guarantor and such Subsidiary, directly or indirectly, provides a guarantee under the Senior Credit Facility or (ii) causes or permits any Subsidiary that is not a Guarantor to, directly or indirectly, guarantee obligations under the Senior Credit Facility, then, in each case the Company shall cause such Subsidiary to simultaneously execute and deliver a supplemental indenture to this Indenture pursuant to which it will become a Guarantor under this Indenture with respect to the Notes.
Section 4.09. .
Purchase of Notes upon a Change of Control
(a) If a Change of Control shall occur at any time, then each Holder of Notes shall have the right to require that the Company purchase such Holder's Notes in whole or in part in integral multiples of $1,000, at a purchase price (the "Change of Control Purchase Price") in cash in an amount equal to 101% of the principal amount of such Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Purchase Date"), pursuant to the offer described in subsection (b) of this Section (the "Change of Control Offer") and in accordance with the procedures set forth in subsections (b), (c), (d) and (e) of this Section.
(b) Within 30 days following any Change of Control, the Company shall (i) cause a notice of the Change of Control Offer to be sent at least once to the Dow Jones News Service or similar business news service in the United States; and (ii) notify the Trustee thereof and give written notice (a "Change of Control Purchase Notice") of such Change of Control to each Holder by first-class mail, postage prepaid, at its address appearing in the Register stating or including:
(1) that a Change of Control has occurred, the date of such event, and that such Holder has the right to require the Company to repurchase such Holder's Notes at the Change of Control Purchase Price;
(2) the circumstances and relevant facts regarding such Change of Control (including information with respect to the Company's pro forma consolidated historical income, cash flow and capitalization after giving effect to such Change of Control);
(3) that the Change of Control Offer is being made pursuant to this Section 4.09 and that all Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer will be accepted for payment at the Change of Control Purchase Price;
(4) the Change of Control Purchase Date, which shall be a Business Day no earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed, or such later date as is necessary to comply with requirements under the Exchange Act;
(5) the Change of Control Purchase Price;
(6) the names and addresses of the Paying Agent and the offices or agencies referred to in Section 2.03;
 
(7) that Notes must be surrendered on or prior to the Change of Control Purchase Date to the Paying Agent at the office of the Paying Agent or to an office or agency referred to in Section 2.03 to collect payment;
(8) that the Change of Control Purchase Price for any Note which has been properly tendered and not withdrawn will be paid promptly following the Change of Control Offer Purchase Date;
(9) the procedures for withdrawing a tender of Notes and Change of Control Purchase Notice;
(10) that any Note not tendered will continue to accrue interest; and
(11) that, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Change of Control Purchase Price, any Notes accepted for payment pursuant to the Change of Control Offer shall cease to accrue interest after the Change of Control Purchase Date.
(c) Upon receipt by the Company of the proper tender of Notes, the Holder of the Note in respect of which such proper tender was made shall (unless the tender of such Note is properly withdrawn) thereafter be entitled to receive solely the Change of Control Purchase Price with respect to such Note. Upon surrender of any such Note for purchase in accordance with the foregoing provisions, such Note shall be paid by the Company at the Change of Control Purchase Price; , , that installments of interest payable on or prior to the Change of Control Purchase Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Notes registered as such on the relevant record dates according to the terms and the provisions of Section 2.04. If any Note tendered for purchase shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof, the principal thereof (and premium, if any, thereon) shall, until paid, bear interest from the Change of Control Purchase Date at the rate borne by such Note. Holders electing to have Notes purchased will be required to surrender such Notes to the Paying Agent at the address specified in the Change of Control Purchase Notice at least two Business Days prior to the Change of Control Purchase Date. Any Note that is to be purchased only in part shall be surrendered to a Paying Agent at the office of such Paying Agent (with, if the Registrar designated pursuant to Section 2.03 or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the note registrar or the Trustee, as the case may be, duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Note, without service charge, one or more new Notes of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in an aggregate principal amount equal to, and in exchange for, the portion of the principal amount of the Note so surrendered that is not purchased.
provided
however
(d) The Company shall (i) not later than the Change of Control Purchase Date, accept for payment Notes or portions thereof tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, (ii) not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York time) on the Change of Control Purchase Date, deposit with the Paying Agent an amount of cash sufficient to pay the aggregate Change of Control Purchase Price of all the Notes or portions thereof which are to be purchased as of the Change of Control Purchase Date and (iii) not later than the Change of Control Purchase Date, deliver to the Paying Agent an Officer's Certificate stating the Notes or portions thereof accepted for payment by the Company. The Paying Agent shall promptly mail or deliver to Holders of Notes so accepted payment in an amount equal to the Change of Control Purchase Price of the Notes purchased from each such Holder, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail or deliver to such Holders a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Note surrendered. Any Notes not so accepted shall be promptly mailed or delivered by the Paying Agent at the Company's expense to the Holder thereof. The Company will publicly announce the results of the Change of Control Offer on the Change of Control Purchase Date. For purposes of this Section 4.09, the Company shall choose a Paying Agent which shall not be the Company.
(e) A Change of Control Purchase Notice may be withdrawn before or after delivery by the Holder to the Paying Agent at the office of the Paying Agent of the Note to which such Change of Control Purchase Notice relates, by means of a written notice of withdrawal delivered by the Holder to the Paying Agent at the office of the Paying Agent or to the office or agency referred to in Section 2.03 to which the related Change of Control Purchase Notice was delivered not later than three Business Days prior to the Change of Control Purchase Date specifying, as applicable:
(1) the name of the Holder;
 
(2) the certificate number of the Note in respect of which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted;
(3) the principal amount of the Note (which shall be $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) delivered for purchase by the Holder as to which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted; and
(4) the principal amount, if any, of such Note (which shall be $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) that remains subject to the original Change of Control Purchase Notice and that has been or will be delivered for purchase by the Company.
(f) Subject to applicable escheat laws, as provided in the Notes, the Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company any cash that remains unclaimed, together with interest or dividends, if any, thereon, held by them for the payment of the Change of Control Purchase Price; , , that (x) to the extent that the aggregate amount of cash deposited by the Company pursuant to clause (ii) of paragraph (d) above exceeds the aggregate Change of Control Purchase Price of the Notes or portions thereof to be purchased, then the Trustee shall hold such excess for the Company and (y) unless otherwise directed by the Company in writing, promptly after the Business Day following the Change of Control Purchase Date the Trustee shall return any such excess to the Company together with interest, if any, thereon.
provided
however
(g) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer following a Change of Control if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Section 4.09 applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Notes validly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer.
(h) The Company shall comply with the applicable tender offer rules, including Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act, and any other applicable securities laws or regulations in connection with a Change of Control Offer. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of this Section 4.09, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 4.09 as a result thereof.
Section 4.10. .
Waiver of Certain Covenants
The Company may omit in a particular instance to comply with any covenant or condition set forth in Sections 4.01 through 4.09, if, before or after the time for such compliance, the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding or shall, by act of such Holders, waive such compliance in such instance with such covenant or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such covenant or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such covenant or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 5.01. .
Limitation on Merger, Consolidation, Etc
So long as any of the Notes remain outstanding, the Company will not, directly or indirectly, in a single transaction or a series of related transactions, consolidate or merge with or into another Person, or sell, lease, transfer, convey or otherwise dispose of or assign all or substantially all of the assets or Properties of the Company or the Company and the Subsidiaries (taken as a whole) unless either:
(a) the Company will be the surviving or continuing Person; or
 
(b) the Person formed by or surviving such consolidation or merger or to which such sale, lease, conveyance, transfer or other disposition shall be made (collectively, the "") expressly assumes, by agreements in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, all of the obligations of the Company under the Notes and this Indenture.
Successor
Section 5.02. .
Successor Substituted
Upon any consolidation or merger, or any sale, assignment, conveyance, transfer, lease or disposition of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company in accordance with Section 5.01, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the successor Person to which such sale, assignment, conveyance, transfer, lease or disposition is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture and the Notes with the same effect as if such successor had been named as the Company herein and in the Notes. When a successor assumes all the obligations of its predecessor under this Indenture and the Notes, the predecessor shall be released from those obligations; that in the case of a transfer by lease, the predecessor shall not be released from the payment of principal and interest on the Notes.
provided
Section 6.01. .
Events of Default
Whenever used herein or in this Indenture, an "Event of Default" means any one of the following events:
(a) there shall be a default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Note at its Maturity (upon acceleration, optional redemption or otherwise);
(b) there shall be a default in the payment of any interest on any Note when it becomes due and payable, and such default shall continue for a period of 30 days;
(c) there shall be a default in the performance, or breach, of any covenant or agreement of the Company or any Guarantor contained in the Notes or in this Indenture, and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 90 days after the date on which written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring the Company or such Guarantor to remedy the same and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder shall have been given to the Company or such Guarantor, as the case may be, by the Trustee, or to the Company or such Guarantor, as the case may be, and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes;
(d) the failure by the Company to make any payment, on or before the end of the applicable grace period, after the maturity of any indebtedness of the Company with an aggregate principal amount then outstanding in excess of $100 million or the acceleration of indebtedness of the Company with an aggregate principal amount then outstanding in excess of $100 million as a result of a default with respect to such indebtedness, and such indebtedness, in either case, is not discharged or such acceleration shall not have been cured, waived, rescinded or annulled within a period of 30 days after there shall have been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the
 
Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes, a written notice specifying such failure to pay or acceleration and requiring the Company to cause such acceleration to be cured, waived, rescinded or annulled or to cause such indebtedness to be discharged and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder;
(e) any Guarantee of a Guarantor that is a Significant Subsidiary of the Company shall for any reason cease to be, or be asserted in writing by any Guarantor or the Company not to be, in full force and effect and enforceable in accordance with its terms, except to the extent contemplated by this Indenture;
(f) there shall have been the entry by a court of competent jurisdiction of (i) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law or (ii) a decree or order adjudging the Company bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company under any applicable federal or state law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of the Company or of any substantial part of its Properties, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and any such decree or order for relief shall continue to be in effect, or any such other decree or order shall be unstayed and in effect, for a period of 60 consecutive days; or
(g) (i) the Company commences a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law or any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated bankrupt or insolvent, (ii) the Company consents to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against it, (iii) the Company files a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable federal or state law, (iv) the Company (1) consents to the filing of such petition or the appointment of, or taking possession by, a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its Properties, or (2) makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors.
The Company shall deliver to the Trustee within five days after the occurrence thereof, written notice, in the form of an Officer's Certificate, of any Default, its status and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
Section 6.02. .
Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment
If an Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may, and the Trustee at the request of the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding shall, declare all unpaid principal of, premium, if any, and accrued interest on all the Notes to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by the Holders of the Notes). Thereupon such principal shall become immediately due and payable, and the Trustee may, at its discretion, proceed to protect and enforce the rights of the holders of Notes by appropriate judicial proceeding.
At any time after such declaration of acceleration has been made but before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes outstanding, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if:
(a) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay:
(i) all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee under Section 7.07 and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel,
(ii) all overdue interest on the Notes, and
 
(iii) to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest upon overdue interest at the rate borne by the Notes;
(b) all Events of Default, other than the non-payment of principal of the Notes which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 6.03; and
(c) the rescission will not conflict with any judgment or decree.
No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Section 6.03. .
Waiver of Past Defaults and Events of Default
Subject to Sections 2.10 and 6.02 hereof, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding have the right to waive past Defaults under this Indenture a Default in the payment of the principal of, or interest or premium, if any, on any Note as specified in clauses (a) and (b) of Section 6.01 or in respect of a covenant or a provision which cannot be modified or amended without the consent of all Holders as provided for in Section 8.02. The Company shall deliver to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate stating that the requisite percentage of Holders have consented to such waiver and attaching copies of such consents. In case of any such waiver, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored to their former positions and rights hereunder and under the Notes, respectively. This paragraph of this Section 6.03 shall be in lieu of  316(a)(1)(B) of the TIA and  316(a)(1)(B) of the TIA is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture and the Notes, as permitted by the TIA.
except
Upon any such waiver, such Default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured for every purpose of this Indenture, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereto.
Section 6.04. .
Control by Majority
Subject to Section 2.10, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee by this Indenture. The Trustee, however, may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture or that the Trustee determines may be unduly prejudicial to the rights of another Holder not taking part in such direction, and the Trustee shall have the right to decline to follow any such direction if the Trustee, being advised by counsel, determines that the action so directed may not lawfully be taken or if the Trustee in good faith shall, by a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, determine that the proceedings so directed may involve it in personal liability; that the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction. In the event the Trustee takes any action or follows any direction pursuant to this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to indemnification reasonably satisfactory against any loss or expense caused by taking such action or following such direction. This Section 6.04 shall be in lieu of  316(a)(1)(A) of the TIA, and  316(a)(1)(A) of the TIA is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture and the Notes, as permitted by the TIA.
provided
Section 6.05. .
Limitation on Suits
Subject to Section 6.07 below, no Holder has any right to institute any proceeding with respect to this Indenture or any remedy thereunder unless:
(1) the Holder gives the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default;
(2) the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Notes make a written request to the Trustee to pursue the remedy;
 
(3) such Holder or Holders offer to the Trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee against any loss, liability or expense which may be incurred in compliance with such request;
(4) the Trustee fails to institute such proceeding within 60 calendar days after receipt of such notice and the offer of indemnity; and
(5) the Trustee has not received directions inconsistent with such written request during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Notes.
A Holder may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of another Holder or to obtain a preference or priority over another Holder.
Section 6.06. .
Rights of Holders to Receive Payment
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder to receive payment of principal of, or premium, if any, or accrued interest of any Note held by such Holder on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Note, or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, is absolute and unconditional and shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of the Holder.
Section 6.07. .
Collection Suit by Trustee
If an Event of Default in payment of principal, premium or interest specified in Section 6.01(a) or (b) hereof occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount of unpaid principal, premium and accrued interest remaining unpaid, together with, to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest on overdue principal and interest on overdue installments of interest, in each case at the rate set forth in the Notes, and such further amounts as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
Section 6.08. .
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
The Trustee may file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and the Holders allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Company (or any other obligor upon the Notes), its creditors or its property and shall be entitled and empowered to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same after deduction of its charges and expenses to the extent that any such charges and expenses are not paid out of the estate in any such proceedings and any custodian in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee, and in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due to it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07 hereof.
Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan or reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Notes or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceedings.
Section 6.09. .
Priorities
If the Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article Six, it shall pay out the money in the following order:
FIRST: to the Trustee for amounts due under Section 7.07 hereof;
 
SECOND: if the Holders are forced to proceed against the Company directly without the Trustee, to Holders for their collection costs;
THIRD: to Holders for amounts due and unpaid on the Notes for principal, premium, if any, and interest as to each, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on the Notes; and
FOURTH: to the Company.
The Trustee, upon prior written notice to the Company, may fix a record date (in the case of Definitive Notes) and payment date for any payment to Holders pursuant to this Section 6.09.
Section 6.10. .
Undertaking for Costs
In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section 6.10 does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder pursuant to Section 6.07 hereof or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding.
Section 7.01. .
Duties of Trustee
(a) If a Default or an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing (but only during the continuance thereof), the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise thereof as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person's own affairs.
(b) Except during the continuance of a Default or an Event of Default:
(1) The Trustee need perform only those duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no covenants or obligations shall be implied in this Indenture against the Trustee.
(2) Subject to the limitations set forth in Section 7.01(a), in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee hereunder and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture. However, the Trustee shall examine those certificates and opinions specifically required herein to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein).
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein contained, the Trustee may not be relieved from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:
(1) This paragraph does not limit the effect of paragraph (b) of this Section 7.01.
 
(2) The Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts.
(3) The Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 6.05.
(d) No provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder or to take or omit to take any action under this Indenture or take any action at the request or direction of Holders if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds is not assured to it or it does not receive from such Holders an indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it against such risk, liability, loss, fee or expense which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction.
(e) Whether or not herein expressly provided, every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this Section 7.01.
(f) The Trustee shall not be liable for interest on any money or assets received by it except as the Trustee may agree in writing with the Company. Assets held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other assets except to the extent required by law.
Section 7.02. .
Rights of Trustee
Subject to Section 7.01 hereof:
(a) The Trustee may conclusively rely on any document (whether in its original or facsimile form) reasonably believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper Person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in any such document.
(b) Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting with respect to any matters contemplated by this Indenture or the Notes it may consult with counsel and may require an Officer's Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel, or both, which shall conform to the provisions of Section 11.05 hereof. The Trustee shall be fully protected and shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on such certificate or opinion.
(c) The Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder through its attorneys and agents and shall not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any attorney or agent (other than an agent who is an employee of the Trustee) so long as the appointment of such agent was made with due care.
(d) The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith which it reasonably believes to be authorized or within its rights or powers.
(e) The Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection, and the advice or opinion of such counsel as to matters of law shall be full and complete authorization and protection from liability in respect of any action taken, omitted or suffered by it hereunder in good faith and in accordance with the advice or opinion of such counsel.
(f) Any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a request or order of the Company in writing and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;
(g) The Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
 
(h) The Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney at the sole cost of the Company and shall incur no liability or additional liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation;
(i) The Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any Default of Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Notes and this Indenture;
(j) The rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and to each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder; and
(k) In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action.
Section 7.03. .
Individual Rights of Trustee
The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may make loans to, accept deposits from, perform services for or otherwise deal with the Company, or any Affiliates thereof, with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. Any Agent may do the same with like rights. The Trustee, however, shall be subject to Sections 7.10 and 7.11 hereof.
Section 7.04. .
Trustee's Disclaimer
The Trustee shall not be responsible for and makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Notes, it shall not be accountable for the Company' use of the proceeds from the sale of Notes or any money paid to the Company pursuant to the terms of this Indenture and it shall not be responsible for any statement of the Company in this Indenture or the Notes other than the Trustee's certificate of authentication.
Section 7.05. .
Notice of Defaults
If a Default or an Event of Default occurs and is continuing and if a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge of such Default or Event of Default, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder notice of the uncured Default or Event of Default within 30 days after such Default or Event of Default occurs. Except in the case of a Default or an Event of Default in payment of principal of, premium or interest on, any Note, including an accelerated payment and the failure to make payment on the Change of Control Payment Date pursuant to a Change of Control Offer and, except in the case of a failure to comply with Article Five hereof, the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as its Board of Directors, the executive committee of its Board of Directors or a committee of its directors and/or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interest of the Holders. This Section 7.05 shall be in lieu of the proviso to Section 315(b) of the TIA, and such proviso of Section 315(b) of the TIA is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture and the Notes, as permitted by the TIA.
 
Section 7.06. .
Reports by Trustee to Holders
If required by TIA Section 313(a), within 60 days after May 15 of any year, commencing the May 15 following the date of this Indenture, the Trustee shall deliver to each Holder a brief report dated as of such May 15 that complies with TIA Section 313(a). The Trustee also shall comply with TIA Section 313(b), (c) and (d).
Reports pursuant to this Section 7.06 shall be transmitted by mail:
(1) to all Holders of Definitive Notes, as the names and addresses of such Holders appear in the Register;
(2) to such Holders as have, within the two years preceding such transmission, filed their names and addresses with the Trustee for that purpose; and
(3) the Company shall promptly notify the Trustee when the Notes are listed on any stock exchange or of any delisting thereof.
Section 7.07. .
Compensation and Indemnity
(a) The Company shall pay to the Trustee from time to time such compensation as shall be agreed in writing between the Company and the Trustee for the Trustee's services. The Trustee's compensation shall not be limited by any law on compensation of a trustee of an express trust. The Company shall reimburse the Trustee upon written request for all fees and expenses, including out-of-pocket expenses incurred or made by it in connection with the performance of its duties under this Indenture or in connection with the collection of any funds. Such expenses shall include the reasonable fees and expenses of the Trustee's agents and counsel.
(b) The Company shall fully indemnify each of the Trustee and its agents, employees, stockholders and directors and officers for, and hold them harmless against, any and all loss, liability claim, damage or expense (including reasonable fees and expenses of its agents and counsel) arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of the trust or trusts hereunder, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim (whether asserted by the Company, or any Holder or any other Person) or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder except for such loss as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to have been caused by the negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on their part. The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly, in writing, of any claim asserted against the Trustee for which it may seek indemnity. At the Trustee's sole discretion, the Company shall defend the claim and the Trustee shall cooperate and may participate in the defense. The Company need not pay for any settlement made without its written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Company need not reimburse any expense or indemnify against any loss or liability to the extent incurred by the Trustee through its own negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct.
(c) To secure the Company' payment obligations in this Section 7.07, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Notes on all assets or money held or collected by the Trustee, in its capacity as Trustee, except assets or money held in trust to pay principal of, premium or interest on particular Notes.
(d) When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(f) or (g) occurs, such expenses and the compensation for such services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law.
The provisions of this Section shall survive the termination of this Indenture.
 
Section 7.08. .
Replacement of Trustee
The Trustee may resign at any time by so notifying the Company in writing. The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may remove the Trustee by so notifying the Trustee and the Company in writing and may appoint a successor Trustee. The Company may remove the Trustee at its election if:
(a) the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10;
(b) the Trustee is adjudged a bankrupt or an insolvent;
(c) a receiver or other public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or
(d) the Trustee otherwise becomes incapable of acting.
If the Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason (the Trustee in such event being referred to herein as the retiring Trustee), the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee. Within one year after the successor Trustee takes office, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes may appoint a successor Trustee to replace the successor Trustee appointed by the Company.
A successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company. Immediately after that, the retiring Trustee shall transfer, after payment of all sums then owing to the Trustee pursuant to Section 7.07, all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, subject to the lien provided in Section 7.07, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee shall have the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture. A successor Trustee shall deliver notice of its succession to each Holder.
If a successor Trustee does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company or the Holders of at least 10% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
If the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10, any Holder may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
Notwithstanding replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this Section 7.08, the Company's obligations under Section 7.07(b) hereof shall continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee with respect to any such losses, claims, damages or expenses arising or incurred on or prior to the effective date of the retiring Trustee's resignation or removal.
Section 7.09. .
Successor Trustee by Consolidation, Merger or Conversion
If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all of its corporate trust business to, another corporation, subject to this Article Seven, the successor corporation without any further act shall be the successor Trustee.
Section 7.10. .
Eligibility; Disqualification
This Indenture shall always have a Trustee which shall be eligible to act as Trustee under TIA Sections 310(a)(1) and 310(a)(2). The Trustee shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition. If the Trustee has or shall acquire any "conflicting interest" within the meaning of TIA Section 310(b), the Trustee and the Company shall comply with the provisions of TIA Section 310(b); , , that there shall be excluded from the operation of TIA Section 310(b)(1) any indenture or indentures under which other securities or certificates of interest or participation in other securities of the Company are outstanding if the requirements for such exclusion set forth in TIA Section 310(b)(1) are met. If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section 7.10, the Trustee shall resign promptly in the manner and with the effect hereinbefore specified in this Article Seven.
provided
however
 
Section 7.11. .
Preferential Collection of Claims Against the Company
The Trustee shall comply with TIA Section 311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA Section 311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA Section 311(a) to the extent indicated therein. The provisions of TIA Section 311 shall apply to the Company as obligors of the Notes.
Section 7.12. .
Trustee's Application for Instructions from the Company
Any application by the Trustee for written instructions from the Company may, at the option of the Trustee, set forth in writing any action proposed to be taken or omitted by the Trustee under this Indenture and the date on and/or after which such action shall be taken or such omission shall be effective. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken by, or omission of, the Trustee in accordance with a proposal included in such application on or after the date specified in such application (which date shall not be less than three Business Days after the date any officer of the Company actually receives such application, unless any such officer shall have consented in writing to any earlier date) unless prior to taking any such action (or the effective date in the case of an omission), the Trustee shall have received written instructions in response to such application specifying the action to be taken or omitted.
Section 8.01. .
Supplemental Indentures and Agreements Without Consent of Holders
Without the consent of any Holders, the Company and the Guarantors, if any, when authorized by a board resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto or agreements or other instruments with respect to any Guarantee, in form and substance satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
(a) to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company, any Guarantor or any other obligor upon the Notes, and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company or such Guarantor or obligor herein and in the Notes and in any Guarantee;
(b) to add to the covenants of the Company, any Guarantor or any other obligor upon the Notes for the benefit of the Holders, or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company, any Guarantor or any other obligor upon the Notes, as applicable, herein, in the Notes or in any Guarantee;
(c) to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision herein, in the Notes or in any Guarantee, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture, the Notes or any Guarantee; provided that, in each case, such provisions shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders;
(d) to comply with the requirements of the Commission in order to effect or maintain the qualification of this Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act, as contemplated by Section 8.03 or otherwise;
(e) to add a Guarantor pursuant to the requirements of Section 4.08 or to release a Guarantee pursuant to Section 10.14;
 
(f) to evidence and provide the acceptance of the appointment of a successor trustee hereunder;
(g) to provide for certificated Notes; or
(h) to mortgage, pledge, hypothecate or grant a security interest in favor of the Trustee for the benefit of the Holders as additional security for the payment and performance of the Indenture Obligations, in any property or assets, including any which are required to be mortgaged, pledged or hypothecated, or in which a security interest is required to be granted to the Trustee pursuant to this Indenture or otherwise.
Section 8.02. .
Supplemental Indentures and Agreements with Consent of Holders
With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Notes, by act of said Holders delivered to the Company, each Guarantor, if any, and the Trustee, the Company and each Guarantor (if a party thereto) when authorized by a board resolution, and the Trustee, may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto or agreements or other instruments with respect to any Guarantee in form and substance satisfactory to the Trustee, for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders under this Indenture, the Notes or any Guarantee; ,, that no such supplemental indenture, agreement or instrument shall, without the consent of the Holder of each outstanding Note affected thereby:
provided
however
(a) reduce, or change the Maturity of, the principal of any Note;
(b) reduce the rate of or extend the time for payment of interest on any Note;
(c) reduce any premium payable upon redemption of the Notes or change the date on which any Notes are subject to redemption;
(d) make any Note payable in money or currency other than that stated in the Notes;
(e) modify or change any provision of this Indenture or the related definitions to affect the ranking of the Notes or any Guarantee in a manner that adversely affects the Holders;
(f) reduce the percentage of Holders necessary to consent to an amendment or waiver to this Indenture or the Notes;
(g) waive a default in the payment of principal of or premium or interest on any Notes (except a rescission of acceleration of the Notes in accordance with Section 6.02);
(h) impair the rights of Holders to receive payments of principal of or interest on the Notes on or after the due date therefor or to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on the Notes;
(i) release any Guarantor that is a Significant Subsidiary from any of its obligations under its Guarantee or this Indenture, except as permitted by Section 10.14; or
(j) make any change in Section 8.01 or this Section 8.02.
Upon the written request of the Company and each Guarantor, if any, accompanied by a copy of a board resolution authorizing the execution of any such supplemental indenture or Guarantee, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence of the consent of Holders as aforesaid, the Trustee shall join with the Company and each Guarantor in the execution of such supplemental indenture or Guarantee.
 
It shall not be necessary for any act of Holders under this Section 8.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture or Guarantee or agreement or instrument relating to any Guarantee, but it shall be sufficient if such act shall approve the substance thereof.
Section 8.03. .
Compliance with TIA
Every amendment to or supplement of this Indenture or the Notes shall comply with the TIA as then in effect.
Section 8.04. .
Revocation and Effect of Consents
Until an amendment, waiver or supplement becomes effective, a consent to it by a Holder is a continuing consent by the Holder and every subsequent Holder of a Note or portion of a Note that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holder's Note, even if notation of the consent is not made on any Note. Subject to the following paragraph, any such Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the consent as to such Holder's Note or portion of such Note by notice to the Trustee or the Company received before the date on which the Trustee receives an Officer's Certificate certifying that the Holders of the requisite principal amount of Notes have consented (and not theretofore revoked such consent) to the amendment, supplement or waiver.
The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, fix a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders entitled to consent to any amendment, supplement or waiver. If a record date is fixed, then notwithstanding the last sentence of the immediately preceding paragraph, those Persons who were Holders at such record date (or their duly designated proxies), and only those Persons, shall be entitled to revoke any consent previously given, whether or not such Persons continue to be Holders after such record date. No such consent shall be valid or effective for more than 90 days after such record date.
After an amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective, it shall bind every Holder, unless it makes a change described in any of clauses (a) through (f) of Section 8.02, in which case, the amendment, supplement or waiver shall bind only each Holder of a Note who has consented to it and every subsequent Holder of a Note or portion of a Note that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holder's Note; that any such waiver shall not impair or affect the right of any Holder to receive payment of principal of and interest on a Note, on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Note, or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates without the consent of such Holder.
provided
Section 8.05. .
Notation on or Exchange of Notes
If an amendment, supplement, or waiver changes the terms of a Note, the Trustee may request the Holder to deliver it to the Trustee. In such case, the Trustee shall place an appropriate notation on the Note about the changed terms and return it to the Holder. Alternatively, if the Company or the Trustee so determine, in exchange for the Note the Company shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate a new Note that reflects the changed terms. Failure to make the appropriate notation or issue a new Note shall not affect the validity and effect of such amendment supplement or waiver.
Section 8.06. .
Trustee to Sign Amendments, etc
The Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of any amendment, supplement or waiver authorized pursuant to this Article Eight is authorized or permitted by this Indenture and that such amendment, supplement or waiver constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable in accordance with its terms (subject to customary exceptions). The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, execute any such amendment, supplement or waiver which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
 
Section 9.01. .
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture
This Indenture shall cease to be of further effect (except as to surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of the Notes herein expressly provided for) and the Trustee, on demand of and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, when
(a) either
(1) all the Notes theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than (i) Notes which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 2.08 or (ii) all Notes for whose payment in U.S. Dollars have theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 3.05) have been delivered to the Trustee cancelled or for cancellation; or
(2) all such Notes not theretofore delivered to the Trustee canceled or for cancellation (x) have become due and payable, (y) will become due and payable at their Maturity within one year, or (z) are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company, and, in each case, the Company or any Guarantor has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee in trust for such purpose an amount in U.S. Dollars, U.S. Government Obligations or a combination thereof sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on the Notes not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation and has delivered irrevocable instructions to the Trustee to apply such amounts toward payment of the Notes at Maturity;
(b) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company; and
(c) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that all conditions precedent herein provided relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have been complied with.
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 7.07 and, if U.S. Dollars shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (2) of Subsection (a) of this Section 9.01, the obligations of the Trustee under Section 2.05 and Section 9.02 of this Indenture shall survive.
Section 9.02. .
Application of Trust Money
Subject to the provisions of Section 2.05, all U.S. Dollars and U.S. Government Obligations deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 9.01 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Notes and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes for whose payment such U.S. Dollars and U.S. Government Obligations have been deposited with the Trustee, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
 
Section 9.03. .
Legal Defeasance
The Company will be deemed to have paid and the Company and the Guarantors will be discharged from any and all obligations in respect of the Notes on the 91st day after the date of the deposit referred to in clause (a) of this Section 9.03, and the provisions of this Indenture will no longer be in effect with respect to the Notes, and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same if:
(a) the Company has irrevocably deposited or caused to be irrevocably deposited with the Trustee and conveyed all right, title and interest to the Trustee for the benefit of the Holders of Notes, under the terms of an irrevocable trust agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Trustee as trust funds in trust, specifically pledged to the Trustee for the benefit of such Holders as security for payment of the principal of and interest, if any, on the Notes, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of such Holders, in and to (1) U.S. Dollars in an amount, (2) U.S. Government Obligations that, through the payment of interest and principal in respect thereof in accordance with their terms, will provide, not later than one day before the due date of any payment referred to in this clause (a), money in an amount or (3) a combination thereof in an amount sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge, without consideration of the reinvestment of such interest and after payment of all federal, state and local taxes or other charges and assessments in respect thereof payable by the Trustee, the principal of and interest on the outstanding Notes on the Maturity of such principal or interest; that the Trustee shall have been irrevocably instructed to apply such money or the proceeds of such U.S. Government Obligations to the payment of such principal and interest with respect to the Notes;
provided
(b) the Company has delivered to the Trustee either (x) an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that Holders of Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of the Company's exercise of its option under this Section 9.03 and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amount and in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such option had not been exercised, which Opinion of Counsel shall be based upon (and accompanied by a copy of) a ruling of the Internal Revenue Service to the same effect unless there has been a change in applicable federal income tax law after the Issue Date such that a ruling is no longer required or (y) a ruling directed to the Trustee received from the Internal Revenue Service to the same effect as the aforementioned Opinion of Counsel;
(c) immediately after giving effect to such deposit, on a pro forma basis, no Default or Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit or, insofar as Sections 6.01(f) and (g) are concerned, at any time during the period ending on the 91st day after such date of such deposit; and
(d) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, in each case stating that all conditions precedent provided for herein relating to the defeasance contemplated by this 9.03 have been complied with.
Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraph, the Company's obligations in Sections 2.02, 2.07, 2.08, 7.07 and 7.08 shall survive until the Notes are no longer outstanding. Thereafter, the Company's obligations in Sections 7.07 of this Indenture shall survive.
After any such irrevocable deposit, the Trustee upon request shall acknowledge in writing the discharge of the Company's obligations under the Notes and this Indenture with respect to the Notes except for those surviving obligations in the immediately preceding paragraph.
 
Section 9.04. .
Covenant Defeasance
The Company may omit to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in Sections 4.06, 4.07, 4.08 and 4.09 hereof and a breach with respect to Sections 4.06, 4.07, 4.08 or 4.09 hereof shall be deemed not to be an Event of Default, in each case with respect to the outstanding Notes if:
(a) the Company has irrevocably deposited or caused to be irrevocably deposited with the Trustee and conveyed all right, title and interest to the Trustee for the benefit of the Holders of Notes, under the terms of an irrevocable trust agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Trustee as trust funds in trust, specifically pledged to the Trustee for the benefit of such Holders as security for payment of the principal of and interest, if any, on the Notes, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of such Holders, in and to (A) U.S. Dollars in an amount, (B) U.S. Government Obligations that, through the payment of interest and principal in respect thereof in accordance with their terms, will provide, not later than one day before the due date of any payment referred to in this clause (a), U.S. Dollars in an amount or (C) a combination thereof in an amount sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge, without consideration of the reinvestment of such interest and after payment of all federal, state and local taxes or other charges and assessments in respect thereof payable by the Trustee, the principal of and interest on the outstanding Notes on the Maturity of such principal or interest; that the Trustee shall have been irrevocably instructed to apply such money or the proceeds of such U.S. Government Obligations to the payment of such principal and interest with respect to the Notes;
provided
(b) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Holders of Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for United States federal income tax purposes as a result of such deposit and defeasance of such covenants and Events of Default and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amount and in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such deposit and defeasance had not occurred;
(c) immediately after giving effect to such deposit on a pro forma basis, no Default or Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit or, insofar as Sections 6.01(f) and (g) are concerned, at any time during the period ending on the 91st day after such date of such deposit;
(d) if the Notes are then listed on a national securities exchange, the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Notes will not be delisted as a result of such deposit, defeasance and discharge; and
(e) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, in each case stating that all conditions precedent provided for herein relating to the defeasance contemplated by this Section 9.04 have been complied with.
Section 9.05. .
Application of Trust Money
The Trustee shall hold in trust money or U.S. Government Obligations deposited with it pursuant to Section 9.03 or Section 9.04, and shall apply the deposited money and the proceeds from U.S. Government Obligations in accordance with this Indenture solely to the payment of principal of and interest on the Notes.
Section 9.06. .
Repayment to Company
Subject to Sections 7.07, 9.03 and 9.05, the Trustee shall promptly pay to the Company upon written request any excess money held by it at any time. The Trustee shall pay to the Company upon written request any money held by it for the payment of principal or interest that remains unclaimed for two years; ,, that the Trustee before being required to make any payment may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once in a newspaper of general circulation in The City of New York or mail to each Holder entitled to such
provided
however
 
money notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein which shall be at least 30 days from the date of such publication or mailing, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining shall be repaid to the Company. After payment to the Company, Holders entitled to money must look solely to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person and all liability of the Trustee or Paying Agent with respect to such money shall thereupon cease.
Section 9.07. .
Reinstatement
If the Trustee is unable to apply any money or U.S. Government Obligations in accordance with Section 9.03 or Section 9.04 by reason of any legal proceeding or by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the Company's and the Guarantors' obligations under this Indenture, the Notes and the Guarantees shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 9.03 or Section 9.04 until such time as the Trustee is permitted to apply all such money or U.S. Government Obligations in accordance with Section 9.03 or Section 9.04; ,, that if the Company has made any payment of interest on or principal of any Notes because of the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Notes to receive such payment from the money or U.S. Government Obligations held by the Trustee.
provided
however
Section 10.01. .
Guarantors' Guarantee
For value received, each of the Guarantors, in accordance with this Article Ten, hereby absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees, jointly and severally, to the Trustee and the Holders, as if the Guarantors were the principal debtor, the punctual payment and performance when due of all Indenture Obligations (which for purposes of this Guarantee shall also be deemed to include all commissions, fees, charges, costs and other expenses (including reasonable legal fees and disbursements of one counsel) arising out of or incurred by the Trustee or the Holders in connection with the enforcement of this Guarantee).
Section 10.02. .
Continuing Guarantee; No Right of Set-Off; Independent Obligation
(a) This Guarantee shall be a continuing guarantee of the payment and performance of all Indenture Obligations and shall remain in full force and effect until the payment in full of all of the Indenture Obligations and shall apply to and secure any ultimate balance due or remaining unpaid to the Trustee or the Holders; and this Guarantee shall not be considered as wholly or partially satisfied by the payment or liquidation at any time or from time to time of any sum of money for the time being due or remaining unpaid to the Trustee or the Holders. Each Guarantor, jointly and severally, covenants and agrees to comply with all obligations, covenants, agreements and provisions applicable to it in this Indenture. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, each of the Guarantors' liability shall extend to all amounts which constitute part of the Indenture Obligations and would be owed by the Company under this Indenture and the Notes but for the fact that they are unenforceable, reduced, limited, impaired, suspended or not allowable due to the existence of a bankruptcy, reorganization or similar proceeding involving the Company.
(b) Each Guarantor, jointly and severally, hereby guarantees that the Indenture Obligations will be paid to the Trustee without set-off or counterclaim or other reduction whatsoever (whether for taxes, withholding or otherwise) in U.S. Dollars.
(c) Each Guarantor, jointly and severally, guarantees that the Indenture Obligations shall be paid strictly in accordance with their terms regardless of any law, regulation or order now or hereafter in effect in any jurisdiction affecting any of such terms or the rights of the holders of the Notes.
 
(d) Except as provided herein, the provisions of this Article Ten cover all agreements between the parties hereto relative to this Guarantee and none of the parties shall be bound by any representation, warranty or promise made by any Person relative thereto which is not embodied herein; and it is specifically acknowledged and agreed that this Guarantee has been delivered by each Guarantor free of any conditions whatsoever and that no representations, warranties or promises have been made to any Guarantor affecting its liabilities hereunder, and that the Trustee shall not be bound by any representations, warranties or promises now or at any time hereafter made by the Company to any Guarantor.
Section 10.03. .
Guarantee Absolute
The obligations of the Guarantors hereunder are independent of the obligations of the Company under the Notes and this Indenture and a separate action or actions may be brought and prosecuted against any Guarantor whether or not an action or proceeding is brought against the Company and whether or not the Company is joined in any such action or proceeding. The liability of the Guarantors hereunder is irrevocable, absolute and unconditional and (to the extent permitted by law) the liability and obligations of the Guarantors hereunder shall not be released, discharged, mitigated, waived, impaired or affected in whole or in part by:
(a) any defect or lack of validity or enforceability in respect of any indebtedness or other obligation of the Company or any other Person under this Indenture or the Notes, or any agreement or instrument relating to either of the foregoing;
(b) any grants of time, renewals, extensions, indulgences, releases, discharges or modifications which the Trustee or the Holders may extend to, or make with, the Company, any Guarantor or any other Person, or any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the Indenture Obligations, or any other amendment or waiver of, or any consent to or departure from, this Indenture or the Notes, including any increase or decrease in the Indenture Obligations;
(c) the taking of security from the Company, any Guarantor or any other Person, and the release, discharge or alteration of, or other dealing with, such security;
(d) the occurrence of any change in the laws, rules, regulations or ordinances of any jurisdiction by any present or future action of any governmental authority or court amending, varying, reducing or otherwise affecting, or purporting to amend, vary, reduce or otherwise affect, any of the Indenture Obligations and the obligations of any Guarantor hereunder;
(e) the abstention from taking security from the Company, any Guarantor or any other Person or from perfecting, continuing to keep perfected or taking advantage of any security;
(f) any loss, diminution of value or lack of enforceability of any security received from the Company, any Guarantor or any other Person, and including any other guarantees received by the Trustee;
(g) any other dealings with the Company, any Guarantor or any other Person, or with any security;
(h) the Trustee's or the Holders' acceptance of compositions from the Company or any Guarantor;
(i) the application by the Holders or the Trustee of all monies at any time and from time to time received from the Company, any Guarantor or any other Person on account of any indebtedness and liabilities owing by the Company or any Guarantor to the Trustee or the Holders, in such manner as the Trustee or the Holders deems best and the changing of such application in whole or in part and at any time or from time to time, or any manner of application of collateral, or proceeds thereof, to all or any of the Indenture Obligations, or the manner of sale of any collateral;
 
(j) the release or discharge of the Company or any Guarantor of the Notes or of any Person liable directly as surety or otherwise by operation of law or otherwise for the Notes, other than an express release in writing given by the Trustee, on behalf of the Holders, of the liability and obligations of any Guarantor hereunder;
(k) any change in the name, business, capital structure or governing instrument of the Company or any Guarantor or any refinancing or restructuring of any of the Indenture Obligations;
(l) the sale of the Company's or any Guarantor's business or any part thereof;
(m) subject to Section 10.14, any merger or consolidation, arrangement or reorganization of the Company, any Guarantor, any Person resulting from the merger or consolidation of the Company or any Guarantor with any other Person or any other successor to such Person or merged or consolidated Person or any other change in the corporate existence, structure or ownership of the Company or any Guarantor;
(n) the insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation, winding-up, dissolution, receivership or distribution of the assets of the Company or its assets or any resulting discharge of any obligations of the Company (whether voluntary or involuntary) or of any Guarantor or the loss of corporate existence;
(o) subject to Section 10.14, any arrangement or plan of reorganization affecting the Company or any Guarantor;
(p) any other circumstance (including any statute of limitations) that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or discharge of, the Company or any Guarantor; or
(q) any modification, compromise, settlement or release by the Trustee, or by operation of law or otherwise, of the Indenture Obligations or the liability of the Company or any other obligor under the Notes, in whole or in part, and any refusal of payment by the Trustee, in whole or in part, from any other obligor or other guarantor in connection with any of the Indenture Obligations, whether or not with notice to, or further assent by, or any reservation of rights against, each of the Guarantors.
Section 10.04. .
Right to Demand Full Performance
In the event of any demand for payment or performance by the Trustee from any Guarantor hereunder, the Trustee or the Holders shall have the right to demand its full claim and to receive all dividends or other payments in respect thereof until the Indenture Obligations have been paid in full, and the Guarantors shall continue to be jointly and severally liable hereunder for any balance which may be owing to the Trustee or the Holders by the Company under this Indenture and the Notes. The retention by the Trustee or the Holders of any security, prior to the realization by the Trustee or the Holders of its rights to such security upon foreclosure thereon, shall not, as between the Trustee and any Guarantor, be considered as a purchase of such security, or as payment, satisfaction or reduction of the Indenture Obligations due to the Trustee or the Holders by the Company or any part thereof.
Section 10.05.
Waivers
.
(a) Each Guarantor hereby expressly waives (to the extent permitted by law) notice of the acceptance of this Guarantee and notice of the existence, renewal, extension or the non-performance, non-payment, or non-observance on the part of the Company of any of the terms, covenants, conditions and provisions of this Indenture or the Notes or any other notice whatsoever to or upon the Company or such Guarantor with respect to the Indenture Obligations. Each Guarantor hereby acknowledges communication to it of the terms of this Indenture and the Notes and all of the provisions therein contained and consents to and approves the same. Each Guarantor hereby expressly waives (to the extent permitted by law) diligence, presentment, protest and demand for payment.
 
(b) Without prejudice to any of the rights or recourses which the Trustee or the Holders may have against the Company, each Guarantor hereby expressly waives (to the extent permitted by law) any right to require the Trustee or the Holders to:
(i) initiate or exhaust any rights, remedies or recourse against the Company, any Guarantor or any other Person;
(ii) value, realize upon, or dispose of any security of the Company or any other Person held by the Trustee or the Holders; or
(iii) initiate or exhaust any other remedy which the Trustee or the Holders may have in law or equity;
before requiring or becoming entitled to demand payment from such Guarantor under this Guarantee.
Section 10.06. .
The Guarantors Remain Obligated in Event the Company Is No Longer Obligated to Discharge Indenture Obligations
It is the express intention of the Trustee and the Guarantors that if for any reason the Company has no legal existence, is or becomes under no legal obligation to discharge the Indenture Obligations owing to the Trustee or the Holders by the Company or if any of the Indenture Obligations owing by the Company to the Trustee or the Holders becomes irrecoverable from the Company by operation of law or for any reason whatsoever, this Guarantee and the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Guarantors contained in this Article Ten shall nevertheless be binding upon the Guarantors, as principal debtor, until such time as all such Indenture Obligations have been paid in full to the Trustee and all Indenture Obligations owing to the Trustee or the Holders by the Company have been discharged, or such earlier time as Section 9.01 or 9.03 shall apply to the Notes and the Guarantors shall be responsible for the payment thereof to the Trustee or the Holders upon demand.
Section 10.07. .
Fraudulent Conveyance; Subrogation
(a) Any term or provision of this Guarantee to the contrary notwithstanding, the aggregate amount of the Indenture Obligations guaranteed hereunder shall be reduced to the extent necessary to prevent this Guarantee from violating or becoming voidable under applicable law relating to fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally.
(b) Each Guarantor hereby waives all rights of subrogation or contribution, whether arising by contract or operation of law (including without limitation, any such right arising under federal bankruptcy law) or otherwise by reason of any payment by it pursuant to the provisions of this Article Ten.
Section 10.08. .
Guarantee Is Additional to Other Security
This Guarantee shall be in addition to and not in substitution for any other guarantees or other security which the Trustee may now or hereafter hold in respect of the Indenture Obligations owing to the Trustee or the Holders by the Company and (except as may be required by law) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to marshal in favor of each of the Guarantors any other guarantees or other security or any moneys or other assets which the Trustee may be entitled to receive or upon which the Trustee or the Holders may have a claim.
Section 10.09. .
No Recourse Against Others
A director, officer, employee, stockholder or incorporator, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creations. Each Holder by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. Such waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of the Notes.
 
Section 10.10. .
No Bar to Further Actions
Except as provided by law, no action or proceeding brought or instituted under Article Ten and this Guarantee and no recovery or judgment in pursuance thereof shall be a bar or defense to any further action or proceeding which may be brought under this Article Ten and the Guarantee by reason of any further default or defaults under this Article Ten and the Guarantee or in the payment of any of the Indenture Obligations owing by the Company.
Section 10.11. .
Failure To Exercise Rights Shall Not Operate as a Waiver; No Suspension of Remedies
(a) No failure to exercise and no delay in exercising, on the part of the Trustee or the Holders, any right, power, privilege or remedy under this Article Ten and the Guarantee shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any rights, power, privilege or remedy preclude any other or further exercise thereof, or the exercise of any other rights, powers, privileges or remedies. The rights and remedies herein provided for are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided in law or equity.
(b) Nothing contained in this Article Ten shall limit the right of the Trustee or the Holders to take any action to accelerate the maturity of the Notes pursuant to Article Six or to pursue any rights or remedies hereunder or under applicable law.
Section 10.12. .
Trustee's Duties; Notice to Trustee
(a) Any provision in this Article Ten or elsewhere in this Indenture allowing the Trustee to request any information or to take any action authorized by, or on behalf of any Guarantor, shall be permissive and shall not be obligatory on the Trustee except as the Holders may direct in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture or where the failure of the Trustee to request any such information or to take any such action arises from the Trustee's negligence or willful misconduct.
(b) The Trustee shall not be required to inquire into the existence, powers or capacities of the Company, any Guarantor or the officers, directors or agents acting or purporting to act on their respective behalf.
Section 10.13. .
Successors and Assigns
Subject to Section 10.14, all terms, agreements and conditions of this Article Ten shall extend to and be binding upon each Guarantor and its successors and permitted assigns and shall inure to the benefit of and may be enforced by the Trustee and its successors and assigns.
Section 10.14. .
Release of Guarantee
(a) Concurrently with the payment in full of all of the Indenture Obligations, a satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture pursuant to Section 9.01 or a legal defeasance of this Indenture pursuant to Section 9.03, all of the Guarantors shall be released from and relieved of their obligations under this Article 10. Upon the delivery by the Company to the Trustee of an Officer's Certificate and, if requested by the Trustee, an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the transaction giving rise to the release of such obligations was made by the Company in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the Notes, the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of the Guarantors from their obligations. If any of the Indenture Obligations of the Guarantors are revived and reinstated after the termination of this Guarantee, then all of the obligations of the Guarantors under this Guarantee shall be revived and reinstated as if this Guarantee had not been terminated until such time as the Indenture Obligations are paid in full, and the Guarantors shall enter into an amendment to this Guarantee, reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, evidencing such revival and reinstatement.
(b) Upon any Guarantor being released as a guarantor under the Senior Credit Facility (in connection with a sale of the Capital Stock of such Guarantor, a merger of a Guarantor into another Person
 
or otherwise) or in the event the Senior Credit Facility is otherwise terminated or refinanced without a guarantee from such Guarantor, such Guarantor shall automatically be deemed released from all obligations under this Guarantee. Upon the delivery by the Company to the Trustee of an Officer's Certificate and, if requested by the Trustee, an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the transaction giving rise to the release of such obligations was made in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the Notes, the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of such Guarantor from its obligations under this Guarantee. Any Guarantor not so released remains liable for the full amount of principal of and interest on the Indenture Obligations as provided in this Article 10.
(c) In the event that a Guarantor (the "") is merged or consolidated with another Person (other than the Company or another Guarantor) in a transaction where such other Person is the surviving entity (the "") and the successor Guarantor is a guarantor under the Senior Credit Facility, the Company shall cause the successor Guarantor to promptly, by an indenture supplemental hereto complying with the provisions of Section 8.01, executed and delivered to the trustee, expressly assume the obligations of the predecessor Guarantor, just as fully and effectually as if such successor Guarantor had been an original party hereto. Thereafter, all obligations of the predecessor Guarantor shall terminate. Every such successor Guarantor, upon executing an indenture supplemental hereto as provided in this Section 10.14(c) in form satisfactory to the Trustee, shall succeed to and be substituted for predecessor Guarantor with the same effect as if it had been named herein as a Guarantor; and any order, certificate or resolution of the Board or officers of a Guarantor provided for in this Indenture may be made by like officials of such Guarantor.
predecessor Guarantor
successor Guarantor
Section 10.15. .
Execution of Guarantee
To evidence the Guarantee, each Guarantor hereby agrees to execute the guarantee substantially in the form set forth in hereto, to be endorsed on each Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and that this Indenture shall be executed on behalf of each Guarantor by one if its Officers, or one of its other officers (or officer's of the Company) or any other person (through power of attorney or otherwise) in each case duly authorized by such Guarantor's board of directors. The signature of any of these officers on the Notes may be manual or facsimile.
Exhibit B
Section 11.01. .
TIA Controls
If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision which is required to be included in this Indenture by the TIA, the required provision shall control.
Section 11.02. .
Notices
Any notices or other communications required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing, and shall be sufficiently given if made by hand delivery, by telex, by telecopier or registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed as follows:
If to the Company:
Constellation Brands, Inc.
370 Woodcliff Drive, Suite 300
Fairport, New York 14450
Attention: General Counsel
Fax: (585) 218-3603
 
Copy to:
Nixon Peabody LLP
1100 Clinton Square
Rochester, New York 14604
Attention: James Locke, Esq.
Fax: (866) 947-0969
If to the Trustee:
The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.
2 N. LaSalle Street
Suite 1020
Chicago, IL 60602
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
Fax: (312) 827-8542
The Company or the Trustee by written notice to the others may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications. Any notice or communication to the Company or the Trustee, shall be deemed to have been given or made as of the date so delivered if personally delivered; when answered back, if telexed; when receipt is acknowledged, if telecopied; and five (5) calendar days after mailing if sent by mail, postage prepaid (except that a notice of change of address shall not be deemed to have been given until actually received by the addressee).
All notices to the Holders will be valid if (i) given by substantially concurrent delivery of the relevant notice to DTC for communication to the holders of the Book-Entry Interests, or (ii) in the case of a Holder of a Definitive Registered Note, including any notice delivered in connection with TIA  310(b), TIA  313(c), TIA  314(a) and TIA  315(b), mailed to such Holders by first-class mail at their respective addresses as they appear in the Register. Copies of any such communication or notice to a Holder shall also be mailed to the Trustee, the Registrar and each Agent at the same time. To the extent required by the Trust Indenture Act, any notice or communication shall also be mailed to any Person described in TIA  313(c).
Failure to deliver a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders. Except for a notice to the Trustee, which is deemed given only when received, and except as otherwise provided in this Indenture, if a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it.
Section 11.03. .
Communications by Holders with Other Holders
Holders may communicate pursuant to TIA Section 312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Notes. The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA Section 312(c).
Section 11.04. .
Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent
Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee:
(1) an Officer's Certificate (which shall include the statements set forth in Section 11.05 below) stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with; and
 
(2) an Opinion of Counsel (which shall include the statements set forth in Section 11.05 below) stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with.
Section 11.05.
Statements Required in Certificate and Opinion
.
Each certificate and opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include:
(1) a statement that the person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions relating thereto;
(2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
(3) a statement that, in the opinion of such person, it or he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such person to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
(4) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such person, such covenant or condition has been complied with.
Section 11.06. .
Rules by Trustee and Agents
The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or at a meeting of Holders. The Registrar and Paying Agent may make reasonable rules for their functions.
Section 11.07. .
Intentionally Omitted
Section 11.08. .
Governing Law
THIS INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AS APPLIED TO CONTRACTS MADE AND PERFORMED WITHIN THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES TO SUBMIT TO THE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE OR THE NOTES.
EACH GUARANTOR HEREBY IRREVOCABLY APPOINTS AND DESIGNATES THE COMPANY AT THE ADDRESS SET FORTH IN SECTION 11.02 HEREOF, AS THE TRUE AND LAWFUL ATTORNEY AND DULY AUTHORIZED AGENT FOR ACCEPTANCE OF SERVICE OF LEGAL PROCESS OF SUCH GUARANTOR. EACH GUARANTOR HEREBY AGREES THAT SERVICE OF PROCESS IN ANY SUCH PROCEEDING MAY BE EFFECTED BY MAILING A COPY THEREOF BY REGISTERED OR CERTIFIED MAIL (OR ANY SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR FORM OF MAIL), POSTAGE PREPAID, TO THE ADDRESS OF THE COMPANY SPECIFIED IN SECTION 11.02 HEREOF. IN ADDITION, EACH GUARANTOR HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, ANY OBJECTION WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, ITS GUARANTEE OR ANY OTHER DOCUMENT EXECUTED IN CONNECTION HEREWITH BROUGHT IN THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK OR THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND ANY CLAIM THAT ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN ANY SUCH COURT HAS BEEN BROUGHT IN AN INCONVENIENT FORUM.
 
Section 11.09. .
No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements
This Indenture may not be used to interpret another indenture, loan, security or debt agreement of the Company or any Subsidiary thereof. No such indenture, loan, security or debt agreement may be used to interpret this Indenture except as expressly provided herein.
Section 11.10. .
No Recourse Against Others
A director, officer, employee, stockholder or incorporator, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creations. Each Holder by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. Such waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of the Notes.
Section 11.11. .
Successors
All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Notes shall bind its successors. All agreements of the Trustee, any additional trustee and any Paying Agents in this Indenture shall bind its successor.
Section 11.12. .
Multiple Counterparts
The parties may sign multiple counterparts of this Indenture. Each signed counterpart shall be deemed an original, but all of them together represent one and the same agreement.
Section 11.13. .
Table of Contents, Headings, etc
The table of contents, cross-reference sheet and headings of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part hereof, and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
Section 11.14. .
Separability
Each provision of this Indenture shall be considered separable and if for any reason any provision which is not essential to the effectuation of the basic purpose of this Indenture or the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 11.15. .
Benefits of Indenture
Nothing in this Indenture or in the Notes, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and the Holders of Notes, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
Section 11.16. .
Force Majeure
In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear
 
or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Indenture to be duly executed all as of the date and year first written above.
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
[CUSIP/ISIN No.:                     ]
 
 
CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC., a Delaware corporation (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to             , or registered assigns, the principal sum of              U.S. Dollars on May 15, 2017, at the office or agency of the Company referred to below, and to pay interest thereon from May 14, 2007, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on May 15 and November 15, in each year, commencing November 15, 2007, at the rate of 7.25% per annum, in U.S. Dollars, until the principal hereof is paid or duly provided for. Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months.
 
The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on the regular record date for such interest, which shall be May 1 or No-vember 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid, or duly provided for, and interest on such defaulted interest at the interest rate borne by the Notes, to the extent lawful, shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such regular record date, and may be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on a special record date for the payment of such defaulted interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes not less than 10 days prior to such special record date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on this Note will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; ,, that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Company, (i) in the case of a Global Note, by wire or book entry transfer to The Depository Trust Company, or (ii) in all other cases, by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear on the Register. Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
provided
however
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
This Note is entitled to the benefits of Guarantees by each of the Guarantors of the punctual payment when due of the Indenture Obligations made in favor of the Trustee for the benefit of the Holders. Reference is hereby made to Article Ten of the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and obligations under the Guarantees of each of the Guarantors.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been duly executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof or by the authenticating agent appointed as provided in the Indenture by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed by the manual or facsimile signature of its authorized officers.
 
 
This is one of the 7.25% Senior Notes due 2017 referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of Notes of the Company designated as its 7.25% Senior Notes due 2017 (herein called the "Notes"), unlimited in aggregate principal amount, issued under an indenture (the "Indenture") dated as of May 14, 2007, among the Company, the Guarantors and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture) and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties, obligations and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Guarantors, the Trustee and the Holders of the Notes, and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. Capitalized terms used herein without definition have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Indenture.
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness on the Notes or (b) certain restrictive covenants and related Defaults and Events of Default, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth therein.
The Notes will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of such Notes, and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the applicable Treasury Rate plus 50 basis points, plus, in each case, accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption.
Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, each Holder may require the Company to repurchase all or a portion of such Holder's Notes in an amount of $1,000 or integral multiples of $1,000, at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of repurchase.
In the case of any redemption or repurchase of Notes in accordance with the Indenture, interest installments payable on or prior to the redemption date will be available to the Holders of such Notes of record as of the close of business on the relevant regular record date referred to on the face hereof. Notes (or portions thereof) for whose redemption and payment provision is made in accordance with the Indenture shall cease to bear interest from and after the date of redemption.
In the event of redemption or repurchase of this Note in accordance with the Indenture in part only, a new Note or Notes for the unredeemed portion hereof shall be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
If an Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, the principal amount of all the Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions (including certain amendments permitted without the consent of any Holders) as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Guarantors and the Holders under the Indenture and the Notes and the Guarantees at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time Outstanding. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all the Notes, to waive compliance by the Company and the Guarantors with certain provisions of the Indenture and the Notes and the Guarantees and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by or
 
on behalf of the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, any Guarantor or any other obligor on the Notes (in the event such Guarantor or other obligor is obligated to make payments in respect of the Notes), which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on this Note at the times, place, and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
[Pursuant to the Initial Registration Rights Agreement, the Company will be obligated to consummate an exchange offer pursuant to which the Holder of this Note shall have the right to exchange this Note for the Company's Notes (the ""), which have been registered under the Securities Act, in like principal amount and having terms identical in all material respects to this Note. The Holder of this Note shall be entitled to receive certain Additional Interest payments in the event such exchange offer is not consummated and upon certain other conditions, all pursuant to and in accordance with the terms of such registration rights agreement.]
Exchange Notes
1
This Global Note will be exchangeable for Definitive Notes only (i) (in whole or in part) if an Event of Default under the Indenture occurs and is continuing, upon the request delivered in writing to the Depositary or the Trustee by the owner of a Book-Entry Interest (as defined in the Indenture), or (ii) (in whole but not in part) if the Depositary is at any time unwilling or unable to continue as the Depositary and a successor Depositary is not able to be appointed by the Company within 90 days. Thereupon (in the case of (i), (ii) and (iv) above), the holder of this Global Note (acting on the instructions of (a) holder(s) of (a) Book-Entry Interest(s) may give notice to the Company and (in the case of (iii) above) the Company may give notice to the Trustee and the Holders, of its intention to exchange this Global Note for Definitive Notes on or after the Exchange Date (as defined below).
On or after the Exchange Date the holder of this Global Note may or, in the case of (iii) above, shall surrender this Global Note to or to the order of the Paying Agent. In exchange for this Global Note the Company will deliver, or procure the delivery of, Definitive Notes in registered form in denominations of $1,000 each or any integral multiple thereof in exchange for the whole or, in the case of (ii) above, the relevant part of this Global Note).
"Exchange Date" means a day specified in the notice requiring exchange falling not more than 60 days after that on which such notice is given and on which banks are open for business in the city in which the specified office of the Paying Agent is located and in the city in which the relevant clearing system is located.
Upon (i) any exchange of a part of this Global Note for all or part of another Global Note or for Definitive Notes or (ii) the purchase by or on behalf of the Company, or any Subsidiary of the Company and cancellation of a part of this Global Note in accordance with Section 2.12 of the Indenture, the portion of the principal amount hereof so exchanged or so purchased and canceled shall be endorsed by or on behalf of the Paying Agent on behalf of the Company on Part II of the Schedule hereto, whereupon the principal amount of this Global Note shall be reduced by the principal amount so exchanged or so purchased and canceled and endorsed. Upon the exchange of the whole of this Global Note for another Global Note or for Definitive Notes, this Global Note shall be surrendered to or to the order of the Paying Agent and canceled and, if the holder of this Global Note requests, returned to it together with any relevant Definitive Notes, if applicable.
The Notes in certificated form are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof.
 
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Notes, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to and at the time of due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, any Guarantor, the Trustee and any agent of the Company, any Guarantor or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note is overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THEREOF.
 
I or we assign and transfer this Note to:
Please insert social security or other identifying number of assignee
{Signature must be guaranteed by an eligible Guarantor Institution (banks, stock brokers, savings and loan associations and credit unions) with membership in an approved guarantee medallion program pursuant to Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 17 Ad-15}
 
The following payments on this Global Note have been made:
 
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for a like part of another Global Note, of this Global Note for Definitive Notes and purchases and cancellations of a part of this Global Note have been made:
 
 
EXHIBIT B
For value received, each of the undersigned hereby unconditionally guarantees, jointly and severally, to the holder of this Note the payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on this Note upon which these Guarantees are endorsed in the amounts and at the time when due and payable whether by declaration thereof, or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal and interest, if any, of this Note, if lawful, and the payment or performance of all other obligations of the Company under the Indenture or the Notes, to the holder of this Note and the Trustee, all in accordance with and subject to the terms and limitations of this Note and Article Ten of the Indenture. These Guarantees will not become effective until the Trustee duly executes the certificate of authentication on this Note.
Dated:
                    
 
 
 
EXHIBIT C
 
7.25% Senior Notes due 2017 (the "Notes")
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of May 14, 2007 (the ""), among the Company, the Guarantors party thereto and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
(the "") owns and proposes to transfer the Note[s] or interest in such Note[s] specified in Annex A hereto, in a principal amount at maturity of $ (the ""), to (the ""), as further specified in Annex A hereto. In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that:
                                         
Transferor
                    
Transfer
                                             
Transferee
1.
  . The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the Book-Entry Interest or Definitive Note is being transferred to a Person that the Transferor reasonably believed and believes is purchasing the Book-Entry Interest or Definitive Note for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such Person exercises sole investment discretion, and such Person and each such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred Book-Entry Interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the 144A Global Note and/or the Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note or a Definitive Note pursuant to Rule 144A
2.
  . The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the Transfer is not being made to a person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act and (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred Book-Entry Interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on Transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Regulation S Global Note and/or the Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a Book-Entry Interest in the Regulation S Global Note or a Definitive Note pursuant to Regulation S
3.
  . The Transfer is being effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Book-Entry Interests in Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States, and accordingly the Transferor hereby further certifies that (check one):
Check and complete if Transferee will take delivery of a Book-Entry Interest in the 144A Global Note or a Definitive Note pursuant to any provision of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A or Regulation S
(a)
  such Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act;
 
- -
or
(b)
such Transfer is being effected to the Company or a subsidiary thereof.
4.
. The Transfer is being effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and in compliance with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred Book-Entry Interest or Definitive Note will not be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend.
  Check if Transferee will take delivery of a Book-Entry Interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or an Unrestricted Definitive Note
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
Dated:
 
 
 
EXHIBIT D
 
7.25% Senior Notes due 2017 (the "Notes")
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of May 14, 2007 (the ""), between the Company, the Guarantors party thereto and The Bank of New York Trust Company N.A., as trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
(the "") owns and proposes to exchange the Note[s] or interest in such Note[s] specified on Annex A hereto, in a principal amount at maturity of $ (the ""). In connection with the Exchange, the Owner hereby certifies that:
                                                 
Owner
                    
Exchange
1. Exchange of Book-Entry Interests in Restricted Global Notes for Restricted Definitive Notes or Book-Entry Interests in Restricted Global Notes
In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's Book-Entry Interest in a Restricted Global Note for a Restricted Definitive Note with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies that the Restricted Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Restricted Definitive Note issued will continue to be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
The Owner requests that Definitive Notes be registered in the following name:
                
                                                 
                
                                                 
and sent to the Owner at the following address:
                
                                                 
                
                                                 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
 
 
 
This Registration Rights Agreement (the "") is dated as of May 14, 2007 by and among CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), each of the subsidiaries of the Company listed on the signature pages hereto (collectively, the "") and Banc of America Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (the "").
Agreement
Company
Guarantors
Initial Purchasers
This Agreement is entered into in connection with the Purchase Agreement, dated as of May 9, 2007 (the ""), by and among the Company, the Guarantors and the Initial Purchasers, which provides for the sale by the Company to the Initial Purchasers of an aggregate of $700,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 7.25% Senior Notes due 2017 (the ""). The Notes are being issued pursuant to the Indenture, dated as of May 14, 2007, (the ""), among the Company, the Guarantors and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the ""). The Notes are guaranteed (the "") by the Guarantors. The Notes and the Guarantees are collectively referred to herein as the "".
Purchase Agreement
Notes
Indenture
Trustee
Guarantees
Securities
In order to induce the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement, the Company and the Guarantors have agreed to provide the registration rights set forth in this Agreement for the benefit of the Initial Purchasers and any subsequent holder or holders of the Securities. The execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the Initial Purchasers' obligation to purchase the Securities under the Purchase Agreement.
The parties hereby agree as follows:
1. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
: See Section 4 hereof.
Additional Interest
: See Section 5 hereof.
Advice
: See the introductory paragraphs hereto.
Agreement
: See Section 2 hereof.
Applicable Period
: Any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in New York are authorized or required by law to be closed.
Business Day
: See the introductory paragraphs hereto.
Company
: The 485th day after the Issue Date; , , that with respect to any Shelf Registration, the Effectiveness Date shall be the 60th day after the Filing Date with respect thereto.
Effectiveness Date
provided
however
: See Section 3 hereof.
Effectiveness Period
: See Section 4 hereof.
Event Date
: The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
: See Section 2 hereof.
Exchange Notes
: See Section 2 hereof.
Exchange Offer
: See Section 2 hereof.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
: (A) If no Exchange Offer Registration Statement has been filed by the Issuer pursuant to this Agreement, the 395th day after the Issue Date; and (B) with respect to a Shelf Registration Statement, the 60th day after the delivery of a Shelf Notice as required pursuant to Section 2(c) hereof.
Filing Date
Free Writing Prospectus: each free writing prospectus (as defined in Rule 405 un-der the Securities Act) prepared by or on behalf of the Company or used or referred to by the Company in connection with the sale of the Notes or the Exchange Notes.
: See introductory paragraphs hereto.
Guarantees
: See introductory paragraphs hereto.
Guarantors
: Any holder of a Registrable Note or Registrable Notes.
Holder
: See Section 7 hereof.
Indemnified Person
: See Section 7 hereof.
Indemnifying Person
: See introductory paragraphs hereto.
Indenture
: See introductory paragraphs hereto.
Initial Purchasers
: See Section 3(a) hereof.
Initial Shelf Registration
: See Section 5(n) hereof.
Inspectors
: May 14, 2007.
Issue Date
: See Section 7(a) hereof.
Losses
: See Section 5(s) hereof.
NASD
: See the introductory paragraphs hereto.
Notes
: See Section 7(a) hereof.
Participant
: See Section 2 hereof.
Participating Broker-Dealer
 
: An individual, trustee, corporation, partnership, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, union, business association, firm or other legal entity.
Person
: See Section 2 hereof.
Private Exchange
: See Section 2 hereof.
Private Exchange Notes
: The prospectus included in any Registration Statement (including, without limitation, any prospectus subject to completion and a prospectus that includes any information previously omitted from a prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance upon Rule 430A or 430B promulgated under the Securities Act), as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, and all other amendments and supplements to the Prospectus, including post-effective amendments, and all material incorporated by reference or deemed to be incorporated by reference in such Prospectus.
Prospectus
: See the introductory paragraphs hereto.
Purchase Agreement
: See Section 5(n) hereof.
Records
: Each Security upon its original issuance and at all times subsequent thereto, each Exchange Note as to which Section 2(c)(iv) hereof is applicable upon original issuance and at all times subsequent thereto and each Private Exchange Note (and related Guarantees) upon original issuance thereof and at all times subsequent thereto, until in the case of any such Security, Exchange Note or Private Exchange Note, as the case may be, the earliest to occur of (i) a Registration Statement (other than, with respect to any Exchange Note as to which Section 2(c)(iv) hereof is applicable, the applicable Exchange Offer Registration Statement) covering such Security, Exchange Note or such Private Exchange Note has been declared effective by the SEC and such Security, Exchange Note or such Private Exchange Note, as the case may be, has been disposed of in accordance with such effective Registration Statement, (ii) such Security has been exchanged for an Exchange Note or Exchange Notes (and related Guarantees) pursuant to an Exchange Offer which may be resold without restriction under state and federal securities laws, (iii) such Security, Exchange Note or Private Exchange Note (and related Guarantees), as the case may be, ceases to be outstanding for purposes of the Indenture, or (iv) such Security, Exchange Note or Private Exchange Note (and related Guarantees), as the case may be, may be resold without restriction pursuant to Rule 144 (or any similar provision then in force) under the Securities Act.
Registrable Notes
: Any registration statement of the Company and the Guarantors that covers any of the Securities, the Exchange Notes (and related Guarantees) or the Private Exchange Notes (and related Guarantees) filed with the SEC under the Securities Act, including the Prospectus, amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, all exhibits, and all material incorporated by reference or deemed to be incorporated by reference in such registration statement.
Registration Statement
: Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule (other than Rule 144A) or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC providing for offers and sales of securities made in compliance therewith resulting in offers and sales by subsequent holders that are not affiliates of an issuer of such securities being free of the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act.
Rule 144
 
: Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule (other than Rule 144) or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC.
Rule 144A
: Rule 415 promulgated under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC.
Rule 415
: The Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
: See the introductory paragraphs hereof.
Securities
: The Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
: See Section 2 hereof.
Shelf Notice
: See Section 3(b) hereof.
Shelf Registration
: See Section 3(b) hereof.
Subsequent Shelf Registration
: The Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
TIA
: The trustee under the Indenture and, if existent, the trustee under any indenture governing the Exchange Notes (and the related Guarantees) and Private Exchange Notes (and the related Guarantees) (if any).
Trustee
: A registration in which securities of the Company are sold to an underwriter for reoffering to the public.
Underwritten registration or underwritten offering
2. .
Exchange Offer
(a) The Company and the Guarantors shall use their respective reasonable best efforts to file with the SEC, no later than the Filing Date, a Registration Statement (the "") on an appropriate registration form with respect to a registered offer (the "") to exchange any and all of the Registrable Notes for a like aggregate principal amount of debt securities of the Company (guaranteed by the Guarantors) which are identical in all material respects to the Securities (the ""), except that (i) the Exchange Notes (and the Guarantors' Guarantees thereof) shall have been registered pursuant to an effective Registration Statement under the Securities Act, shall not contain provisions for Additional Interest, and shall contain no restrictive legend thereon, and (ii) interest thereon shall accrue from the last date on which interest was paid on the Notes or, if no such interest has been paid, from the Issue Date, and which Exchange Notes are entitled to the benefits of the Indenture or a trust indenture which is identical in all material respects to the Indenture (other than such changes to the Indenture or any such identical trust indenture as are necessary to comply with any requirements of the SEC to effect or maintain the qualification thereof under the TIA)
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
Exchange Offer
Exchange Notes
 
and which, in either case, has been qualified under the TIA. The Exchange Offer shall comply with all applicable tender offer rules and regulations under the Exchange Act and other applicable law. The Company and the Guarantors shall use their respective reasonable best efforts to (x) cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be declared effective under the Securities Act on or before the Effectiveness Date; (y) keep the Exchange Offer open for not less than 30 days (or longer if required by applicable law) after the date that notice of such Exchange Offer is mailed to Holders; and (z) consummate such Exchange Offer on or prior to the 525th day following the Issue Date. For purposes of this Section 2(a) only, if after the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is initially declared effective by the SEC, the Exchange Offer or the issuance of the Exchange Notes thereunder is interfered with by any stop order, injunction or other order or requirement of the SEC or any other governmental agency or court, the Exchange Offer Registration Statement shall be deemed not to have become effective for purposes of this Agreement during the period of such interference, until the Exchange Offer may legally resume.
Each Holder who participates in the Exchange Offer will be required, as a condition to its participation in the Exchange Offer, to represent to the Company in writing (which may be contained in the applicable letter of transmittal) that (i) any Exchange Notes received by it will be acquired in the ordinary course of its business, (ii) at the time of the consummation of the Exchange Offer such Holder will have no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the distribution (within the meaning of the Securities Act) of the Exchange Notes in violation of the provisions of the Securities Act, (iii) such Holder is not an affiliate of the Company or any Guarantor within the meaning of Rule 405 under the Securities Act or, if such Holder is such an affiliate, it will comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act with respect to resales of its Exchange Notes, to the extent applicable, (iv) if such Holder is not a broker-dealer, such Holder is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, the distribution of Exchange Notes, (v) if such Holder is a broker-dealer that will receive Exchange Notes for its own account in exchange for Securities that were acquired as a result of market-making or other trading activities (a ""), such Holder will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Notes and (vi) such Holder is not acting on behalf of any Persons who could not truthfully make the foregoing representations.
Participating Broker-Dealer
Upon consummation of the Exchange Offer in accordance with this Section 2, the provisions of this Agreement shall continue to apply, , solely with respect to Registrable Notes that are Private Exchange Notes, Exchange Notes as to which Section 2(c)(iv) is applicable and Exchange Notes held by Participating Broker-Dealers, and the Company and the Guarantors shall have no further obligation to register Registrable Notes (other than Private Exchange Notes and other than in respect of any Exchange Notes as to which clause 2(c)(iv) hereof applies) pursuant to Section 3 hereof.
mutatis mutandis
No securities other than the Exchange Notes shall be included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement.
(b) The Company and the Guarantors shall include within the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement a section entitled "Plan of Distribution," reasonably acceptable to the Initial Purchasers, which shall contain a summary statement of the positions taken or policies made by the staff of the SEC with respect to the potential "underwriter"
 
status of any "Participating Broker-Dealer", whether such positions or policies have been publicly disseminated by the staff of the SEC or such positions or policies represent the prevailing views of the staff of the SEC. Such "Plan of Distribution" section shall also expressly permit the use of the Prospectus by all Persons subject to the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act, including all Participating Broker-Dealers, and include a statement describing the means by which Participating Broker-Dealers may resell the Exchange Notes in compliance with the Securities Act.
The Company and the Guarantors shall use their respective best efforts to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement effective and to amend and supplement the Prospectus contained therein in order to permit such prospectus to be lawfully delivered by all Persons subject to the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act for such period of time as is necessary to comply with applicable law in connection with any resale of the Exchange Notes covered thereby; , , that such period shall not exceed 180 days after such Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective (or such longer period if extended pursuant to the last paragraph of Section 5 hereof) (the "").
provided
however
Applicable Period
If, prior to consummation of the Exchange Offer, an Initial Purchaser holds any Notes acquired by them and having, or which are reasonably likely to be determined to have, the status of an unsold allotment in an initial distribution, the Company and the Guarantors upon the request of such Initial Purchaser shall simultaneously with the delivery of the Exchange Notes in the Exchange Offer, issue and deliver to such Initial Purchaser, in exchange (each, a "") for such Notes held by such Initial Purchaser, a like principal amount of debt securities of the Company (guaranteed by the Guarantors) that are identical in all material respects to the Exchange Notes (the "") except for the placement of a restrictive legend on such Private Exchange Notes (and which are issued pursuant to the same indenture as the Exchange Notes). If possible, the Private Exchange Notes shall bear the same CUSIP number as the Exchange Notes.
Private Exchange
Private Exchange Notes
In connection with each Exchange Offer, the Company and the Guarantors shall:
(1) mail, or cause to be mailed, to each Holder entitled to participate in the Exchange Offer a copy of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement relating to such Exchange Offer, together with an appropriate letter of transmittal and related documents;
(2) use their respective reasonable best efforts to keep the Exchange Offer open for not less than 30 days after the date that notice of the Exchange Offer is mailed to Holders (or longer, if required by applicable law);
(3) utilize the services of a depositary for the Exchange Offer which may be the Trustee or an affiliate thereof;
(4) permit Holders to withdraw tendered Notes at any time prior to the close of business, New York time, on the last Business Day on which the Exchange Offer remains open; and
 
(5) otherwise comply in all material respects with all applicable laws, rules and regulations of the United States.
As soon as practicable after the close of the Exchange Offer and the Private Exchange, if any, the Company and the Guarantors shall:
(1) accept for exchange all Registrable Notes validly tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the Exchange Offer and the Private Exchange, if any;
(2) deliver to the Trustee for cancellation all Registrable Notes so accepted for exchange; and
(3) cause the Trustee to authenticate and deliver promptly to each Holder of Notes, Exchange Notes or Private Exchange Notes, as the case may be, equal in principal amount to the Securities of such Holder so accepted for exchange; provided, however, that in the case of any Registrable Notes held in global form by a depository, authentication and delivery to such depository of one or more Exchange Notes in global form in such amount shall satisfy such requirement.
The Exchange Offer and the Private Exchange shall not be subject to any conditions, other than that (i) the Exchange Offer or Private Exchange, as the case may be, does not violate applicable law or any applicable interpretation of the staff of the SEC, (ii) no action or proceeding is instituted or threatened in any court or by any governmental agency which might materially impair the ability of the Company and the Guarantors to proceed with the Exchange Offer or the Private Exchange and no material adverse development has occurred in any existing action or proceeding with respect to the Company or the Guarantors that would materially impair the ability of the Company and the Guarantors to consummate the Exchange Offer or the Private Exchange and (iii) all governmental approvals have been obtained, which approvals the Company and the Guarantors deem necessary for the consummation of the Exchange Offer or the Private Exchange.
The Exchange Notes and the Private Exchange Notes shall be issued under (i) the Indenture or (ii) an indenture identical in all material respects to the Indenture, which in either event has been qualified under the TIA or is exempt from such qualification and shall provide that the Exchange Notes shall not be subject to the transfer restrictions set forth in the Indenture. The Indenture or such indenture shall provide that the Exchange Notes, the Private Exchange Notes and the Securities shall vote and consent together on all matters as one class and that none of the Exchange Notes, the Private Exchange Notes or the Securities will have the right to vote or consent as a separate class on any matter.
(c) If, (i) because of any change in law or in currently prevailing interpretations of the staff of the SEC, the Company and the Guarantors are not permitted to effect the Exchange Offer, (ii) the Exchange Offer is not consummated within 525 days after the Issue Date, (iii) any Initial Purchaser of Private Exchange Notes so requests, or (iv) in the case of any Holder that participates in the Exchange Offer, such Holder does not receive Exchange Notes on the date of the exchange that may be sold without restriction under state and federal securities laws (other than due solely to the status of such Holder as an affiliate of the Company or any Guarantor
 
within the meaning of the Securities Act), in the case of each of clauses (i) to and including (iv) of this sentence, then the Company and the Guarantors shall promptly deliver to the Holders and the Trustee written notice thereof (the "") and shall file a Shelf Registration pursuant to Section 3 hereof.
Shelf Notice
3. . If at any time a Shelf Notice is delivered as contemplated by Section 2(c) hereof, then:
Shelf Registration
(a) . The Company and the Guarantors shall file with the SEC a Registration Statement for an offering to be made on a continuous basis pursuant to Rule 415 covering all of the Registrable Notes not exchanged in the Exchange Offer, Private Exchange Notes and Exchange Notes to which Section 2(c)(iv) is applicable (the ""). The Company and the Guarantors shall use their respective reasonable best efforts to file with the SEC the Initial Shelf Registration on or prior to the Filing Date. The Initial Shelf Registration shall be on Form S-1 or another appropriate form permitting registration of such Registrable Notes for resale by Holders in the manner or manners designated by them (including, without limitation, one or more underwritten offerings). Neither the Company nor any Guarantor shall permit any debt securities or securities convertible into or exchangeable for debt securities other than the Registrable Notes to be included in the Initial Shelf Registration or any Subsequent Shelf Registration (as defined below).
Shelf Registration
Initial Shelf Registration
The Company and the Guarantors shall use their respective best efforts to cause each Initial Shelf Registration to become effective under the Securities Act on or prior to the Effectiveness Date and to keep such Initial Shelf Registration continuously effective under the Securities Act until the date which is two years from the Effectiveness Date, subject to extension pursuant to the last paragraph of Section 5 hereof (the ""), or such shorter period ending when (i) all Registrable Notes covered by the Initial Shelf Registration have been sold in the manner set forth and as contemplated in the Initial Shelf Registration or (ii) a Subsequent Shelf Registration covering all of the Registrable Notes covered by and not sold under the Initial Shelf Registration or an earlier Subsequent Shelf Registration has become effective under the Securities Act; , , that the Effectiveness Period in respect of the Initial Shelf Registration shall be extended to the extent required to permit dealers to comply with the applicable prospectus delivery requirements of Rule 174 under the Securities Act and as otherwise provided herein.
Effectiveness Period
provided
however
(b) . If the Initial Shelf Registration or any earlier Subsequent Shelf Registration ceases to be effective for any reason at any time during the Effectiveness Period (other than because of the sale of all of the Securities registered thereunder or all of the Securities registered thereunder otherwise ceasing to constitute Registrable Notes), the Company and the Guarantors shall use their respective reasonable best efforts to obtain the prompt withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness thereof, and in any event shall within 45 days of such cessation of effectiveness amend the Initial Shelf Registration in a manner to obtain the withdrawal of the order suspending the effectiveness thereof, or file an additional "shelf" Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 415 covering all of the Registrable Notes covered by and not sold under
Subsequent Shelf Registrations
 
the Initial Shelf Registration or an earlier Subsequent Shelf Registration (each, a ""). If a Subsequent Shelf Registration is filed, the Company and the Guarantors shall use their respective reasonable best efforts to cause the Subsequent Shelf Registration to become effective under the Securities Act as soon as practicable after such filing and to keep such Registration Statement continuously effective for a period equal to the number of days in the Effectiveness Period less the aggregate number of days during which the Initial Shelf Registration or any Subsequent Shelf Registration was previously continuously effective. As used herein the term "" means the Initial Shelf Registration and any Subsequent Shelf Registration.
Subsequent Shelf Registration
Shelf Registration
(c) . The Company and the Guarantors shall promptly supplement and amend the Shelf Registration if required by the rules, regulations or instructions applicable to the registration form used for such Shelf Registration, if required by the Securities Act, or if reasonably requested by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Notes covered by such Registration Statement or by any underwriter of such Registrable Notes.
Supplements and Amendments
4.
Additional Interest
(a) The Company, the Guarantors and the Initial Purchasers agree that the Holders will suffer damages if the Company and the Guarantors fail to fulfill their obligations under Section 2 or Section 3 hereof and that it would not be feasible to ascertain the extent of such damages with precision. Accordingly, the Company and the Guarantors agree to pay, as liquidated damages, additional interest on the Notes ("") under the circumstances and to the extent set forth below (each of which shall be given independent effect):
Additional Interest
(i) if (A) neither the Exchange Offer Registration Statement nor the Initial Shelf Registration covering all Registrable Notes whose Holders' have provided all information reasonably requested by the Company pursuant to Section 5 hereof has been filed with the SEC within 395 days after the Issue Date or (B) notwithstanding that the Company and the Guarantors have consummated or will consummate an Exchange Offer, the Company and the Guarantors are required to file a Shelf Registration and such Shelf Registration is not filed on or prior to the Filing Date applicable thereto, then, commencing on the day after any such Filing Date, Additional Interest shall accrue on the principal amount of the Notes at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 90 days immediately following each such Filing Date, such Additional Interest rate increasing by an additional 0.25% per annum at the beginning of each subsequent 90-day period;
(ii) if (A) neither the Exchange Offer Registration Statement nor the Initial Shelf Registration covering all Registrable Notes whose Holders' have provided all information reasonably requested by the Company pursuant to Section 5 hereof is declared effective by the SEC on or prior to the relevant Effectiveness Date or (B) notwithstanding that the Company and the Guarantors have consummated or will consummate the Exchange Offer, the Company and the Guarantors are required to file a Shelf Registration and such Shelf Registration does not become effective on or prior to the Effectiveness Date in respect of such Shelf Registration, then, commencing on the day after such Effectiveness Date, Additional Interest shall accrue on the principal amount of the Notes at a
 
rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 90 days immediately following the day after such Effectiveness Date, such Additional Interest rate increasing by an additional 0.25% per annum at the beginning of each subsequent 90-day period; and
(iii) if (A) the Company and the Guarantors have not exchanged Exchange Notes for all Notes validly tendered in accordance with the terms of the Exchange Offer on or prior to the 525th day after the Issue Date and a Shelf Registration Statement covering all Registrable Notes whose Holders' have provided all information reasonably requested by the Company pursuant to Section 5 hereof has not become effective or (B) if applicable, a Shelf Registration has become effective and such Shelf Registration ceases to be effective at any time during the Effectiveness Period (other than after such time as all Notes have been disposed of thereunder), then Additional Interest shall accrue on the principal amount of the Notes at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 90 days commencing on the (x) 526th day after the Issue Date, in the case of (A) above, or (y) the day such Shelf Registration ceases to be effective in the case of (B) above, such Additional Interest rate increasing by an additional 0.25% per annum at the beginning of each such subsequent 90-day period;
, , that Additional Interest on the Notes may not accrue under more than one of the foregoing clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) at any one time and at no time shall the aggregate amount of Additional Interest accruing exceed in the aggregate 1% per annum; , , , that (1) upon the filing of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or a Shelf Registration as required hereunder (in the case of clause (a)(i) of this Section 4), (2) upon the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or a Shelf Registration as required hereunder (in the case of clause (a)(ii) of this Section 4), or (3) upon the exchange of Exchange Notes for all Notes tendered (in the case of clause (a)(iii)(A) of this Section 4), or upon the effectiveness of a Shelf Registration which had ceased to remain effective (in the case of (a)(iii)(B) of this Section 4), Additional Interest on the Notes as a result of such clause (or the relevant subclause thereof), as the case may be, shall cease to accrue. It is understood and agreed that, notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, so long as any Registrable Note is then covered by an effective Shelf Registration Statement, no Additional Interest shall accrue on such Registrable Security.
provided
however
provided
further
however
(b) The Company and the Guarantors shall notify the Trustee within two business days after each and every date on which an event occurs in respect of which Additional Interest is required to be paid (an ""). Any amounts of Additional Interest due pursuant to (a)(i), (a)(ii) or (a)(iii) of this Section 4 will be payable in cash semi-annually on each May 15 and November 15 (to the holders of record on the May 1 and November 1 immediately preceding such dates), commencing with the first such date occurring after any such Additional Interest commences to accrue. The amount of Additional Interest will be determined by multiplying the applicable Additional Interest rate by the principal amount of the Registrable Notes, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days such Additional Interest rate was applicable during such period (determined on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months and, in the case of a partial month, the actual number of days elapsed), and the denominator of which is 360.
Event Date
5. . In connection with the filing of any Registration Statement pursuant to Sections 2 or 3 hereof, the Company and the Guarantors shall effect such
Registration Procedures
 
registrations to permit the sale of the securities covered thereby in accordance with the intended method or methods of disposition thereof, and pursuant thereto and in connection with any Registration Statement filed by the Company and the Guarantors hereunder the Company and the Guarantors shall:
(a) Prepare and file with the SEC prior to the applicable Filing Date, a Registration Statement or Registration Statements as prescribed by Sections 2 or 3 hereof, and use their respective best efforts to cause each such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective as provided herein; , , that, if (1) such filing is pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period relating thereto, before filing any Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto, the Company and the Guarantors shall furnish to and afford the Holders of the Registrable Notes covered by such Registration Statement or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, their counsel and the managing underwriters, if any, a reasonable opportunity to review copies of all such documents (including copies of any documents to be incorporated by reference therein and all exhibits thereto) proposed to be filed (in each case at least five business days prior to such filing, or such later date as is reasonable under the circumstances). Neither the Company nor any Guarantor shall file any Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto if the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Notes covered by such Registration Statement, or any such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, their counsel, or the managing underwriters, if any, shall reasonably object.
provided
however
(b) Prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Shelf Registration or Exchange Offer Registration Statement, as the case may be, as may be necessary to keep such Registration Statement continuously effective for the Effectiveness Period or the Applicable Period, as the case may be; cause the related Prospectus to be supplemented by any Prospectus supplement required by applicable law, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 (or any similar provisions then in force) promulgated under the Securities Act; and comply with the provisions of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act applicable to each of them with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by such Registration Statement as so amended or described in such Prospectus as so supplemented and with respect to the subsequent resale of any securities being sold by a Participating Broker-Dealer covered by any such Prospectus. The Company and the Guarantors shall be deemed not to have used their respective best efforts to keep a Registration Statement effective during the Effectiveness Period or the Applicable Period, as the case may be, relating thereto if the Company or any Guarantor, as the case may be, voluntarily takes any action that would result in selling Holders of the Registrable Notes covered thereby or Participating Broker-Dealers seeking to sell Exchange Notes not being able to sell such Registrable Notes or such Exchange Notes during that period unless (i) such action is required by applicable law or (ii) such action is taken by each of them in good faith and for valid business reasons (not including avoidance of any of its obligations hereunder), including the acquisition or divestiture of assets.
 
(c) If (1) a Shelf Registration is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period relating thereto from whom the Company has received written notice that it will be a Participating Broker-Dealer in the Exchange Offer, notify the selling Holders of Registrable Notes, or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, their counsel and the managing underwriters, if any, promptly (but in any event within two Business Days), and confirm such notice in writing, (i) when a Prospectus or any Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment has been filed, and, with respect to a Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment, when the same has become effective under the Securities Act (including in such notice a written statement that any Holder may, upon request, obtain, at the sole expense of the Company and the Guarantors, one conformed copy of such Registration Statement or post-effective amendment including financial statements and schedules, documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference and exhibits), (ii) of the issuance by the SEC of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of any preliminary prospectus or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, (iii) if, at any time when a prospectus is required by the Securities Act to be delivered in connection with sales of the Registrable Notes or resales of Exchange Notes by Participating Broker-Dealers, the representations and warranties of the Company and the Guarantors contained in any agreement (including any underwriting agreement) contemplated by Section 5(m) hereof cease to be true and correct in all material respects, (iv) of the receipt by the Company or any Guarantor of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification or exemption from qualification of a Registration Statement or any of the Registrable Notes or the Exchange Notes to be sold by any Participating Broker-Dealer for offer or sale in any jurisdiction, or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose, (v) of the happening of any event, the existence of any condition or any information becoming known that makes any statement made in such Registration Statement or related Prospectus or any document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference untrue in any material respect or that requires the making of any changes in or amendments or supplements to such Registration Statement, Prospectus or documents so that, in the case of the Registration Statement, it will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and that in the case of the Prospectus, it will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and (vi) of the determination by the Company and the Guarantors that a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement would be appropriate.
(d) If (1) a Shelf Registration is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2
 
hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period, use their respective reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of a Prospectus or suspending the qualification (or exemption from qualification) of any of the Registrable Notes or the Exchange Notes to be sold by any Participating Broker-Dealer, for sale in any jurisdiction, and, if any such order is issued, to use their respective reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any such order at the earliest possible moment.
(e) If a Shelf Registration is filed pursuant to Section 3 and if requested by the managing underwriter or underwriters (if any), the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Notes being sold in connection with an underwritten offering or any Participating Broker-Dealer, (i) promptly incorporate in a prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment such information as the managing underwriter or underwriters (if any), such Holders, any Participating Broker-Dealer or counsel for any of them reasonably determine is necessary to be included therein, (ii) make all required filings of such prospectus supplement or such post-effective amendment as soon as practicable after the Company has received notification of the matters to be incorporated in such prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment, and (iii) supplement or make amendments to such Registration Statement.
(f) If (1) a Shelf Registration is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period, furnish to each selling Holder of Registrable Notes and to each such Participating Broker-Dealer who so requests and to counsel and each managing underwriter, if any, at the sole expense of the Company and the Guarantors, one conformed copy of the Registration Statement or Registration Statements and each post-effective amendment thereto, including financial statements and schedules, and, if requested, all documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference and all exhibits.
(g) If (1) a Shelf Registration is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period, deliver to each selling Holder of Registrable Notes, or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, their respective counsel, and the underwriters, if any, at the sole expense of the Company, as many copies of the Prospectus or Prospectuses (including each form of preliminary prospectus) and each amendment or supplement thereto and any documents incorporated by reference therein as such Persons may reasonably request; and, subject to the last paragraph of this Section 5, the Company and the Guarantors hereby consent to the use of such Prospectus and each amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders of Registrable Notes or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, and the underwriters or agents, if any, and dealers (if any), in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Notes covered by, or the sale by Participating Broker-Dealers of the Exchange Notes pursuant to, such Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto.
 
(h) Prior to any public offering of Registrable Notes or any delivery of a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period, to use their respective reasonable best efforts to register or qualify, and to cooperate with the selling Holders of Registrable Notes or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, the managing underwriter or underwriters, if any, and their respective counsel in connection with the registration or qualification (or exemption from such registration or qualification) of such Registrable Notes for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions within the United States as any selling Holder, Participating Broker-Dealer, or the managing underwriter or underwriters reasonably request; , , that where Exchange Notes held by Participating Broker-Dealers or Registrable Notes are offered other than through an underwritten offering, the Company and the Guarantors agree to cause their counsel to perform Blue Sky investigations and file registrations and qualifications required to be filed pursuant to this Section 5(h), keep each such registration or qualification (or exemption therefrom) effective during the period such Registration Statement is required to be kept effective and do any and all other acts or things reasonably necessary or advisable to enable the disposition in such jurisdictions of the Exchange Notes held by Participating Broker-Dealers or the Registrable Notes covered by the applicable Registration Statement; , , that neither the Company nor any Guarantor shall be required to (A) qualify generally to do business in any jurisdiction where it is not then so qualified, (B) take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject or (C) subject itself to taxation in excess of a nominal dollar amount in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject.
provided
however
provided
further
(i) If a Shelf Registration is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, reasonably cooperate with the selling Holders of Registrable Notes and the managing underwriter or underwriters, if any, to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Notes to be sold, which certificates shall not bear any restrictive legends and shall be in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company; and enable such Registrable Notes to be in such denominations and registered in such names as the managing underwriter or underwriters, if any, or Holders may request.
(j) Use their respective reasonable best efforts to cause the Registrable Notes covered by the Registration Statement to be registered with or approved by such other governmental agencies or authorities as may be reasonably necessary to enable the seller or sellers thereof or the underwriter or underwriters, if any, to consummate the disposition of such Registrable Notes, except as may be required solely as a consequence of the nature of such selling Holder's business, in which case the Company and the Guarantors will cooperate in all reasonable respects with the filing of such Registration Statement and the granting of such approvals.
(k) If (1) a Shelf Registration is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2
 
hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period, upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by paragraph 5(c)(v) or 5(c)(vi) hereof, as promptly as practicable prepare and (subject to Section 5(a) hereof) file with the SEC, at the sole expense of the Company, a supplement or post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or a supplement to the related Prospectus or any document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference, or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of the Registrable Notes being sold thereunder or to the purchasers of the Exchange Notes to whom such Prospectus will be delivered by a Participating Broker-Dealer, any such Prospectus will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
(l) Prior to the effective date of the first Registration Statement relating to the Registrable Notes, (i) provide the Trustee with certificates for the Registrable Notes in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company and (ii) provide a CUSIP number and an ISIN number for the Registrable Notes.
(m) In connection with any underwritten offering of Registrable Notes pursuant to a Shelf Registration, enter into an underwriting agreement as is customary in underwritten offerings of debt securities similar to the Securities and take all such other actions as are reasonably requested by the managing underwriter or underwriters in order to expedite or facilitate the registration or the disposition of such Registrable Notes and, in such connection, (i) make such representations and warranties to, and covenants with, the underwriters with respect to the business of the Company, the Guarantors and their respective subsidiaries (including any acquired business, properties or entity, if applicable) and the Registration Statement, Prospectus and documents, if any, incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein, in each case, as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in underwritten offerings of debt securities similar to the Securities, and confirm the same in writing if and when requested; (ii) obtain the written opinions of counsel to the Company and the Guarantors and written updates thereof in form, scope and substance reasonably satisfactory to the managing underwriter or underwriters, addressed to the underwriters covering the matters customarily covered in opinions requested in underwritten offerings and such other matters as may be reasonably requested by the managing underwriter or underwriters; (iii) obtain "cold comfort" letters and updates thereof in form, scope and substance reasonably satisfactory to the managing underwriter or underwriters from the independent registered public accounting firm of the Company and the Guarantors (and, if necessary, any other independent registered public accounting firm of any subsidiary of the Company or any Guarantor or of any business acquired by the Company or any Guarantor for which financial statements and financial data are, or are required to be, included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement), addressed to each of the underwriters, such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "cold comfort" letters in connection with underwritten offerings and such other matters as reasonably requested by the managing underwriter or underwriters as permitted by the Statement on Auditing Standards
 
No. 72; and (iv) if an underwriting agreement is entered into, the same shall contain indemnification provisions and procedures no less favorable than those set forth in Section 7 hereof (or such other provisions and procedures acceptable to Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Registrable Notes covered by such Registration Statement and the managing underwriter or underwriters or agents) with respect to all parties to be indemnified pursuant to said Section. The above shall be done as and to the extent required by such underwriting agreement.
(n) If (1) a Shelf Registration is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period, make available for inspection by any selling Holder of such Registrable Notes being sold, or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, any underwriter participating in any such disposition of Registrable Notes, if any, and any attorney, accountant or other agent retained by any such selling Holder or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, or underwriter (collectively, the ""), at the offices where normally kept, during reasonable business hours, all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and instruments of the Company, the Guarantors and their respective subsidiaries (collectively, the "") as shall be reasonably necessary to enable them to exercise any applicable due diligence responsibilities, and cause the officers, directors and employees of the Company, the Guarantors and their respective subsidiaries to supply all information reasonably requested by any such Inspector in connection with such Registration Statement or Prospectus. Records which the Company determines, in good faith, to be confidential and any Records which the Company notifies the Inspectors in writing are confidential shall not be disclosed by the Inspectors unless (i) the disclosure of such Records is necessary or advisable to avoid or correct a misstatement or omission in such Registration Statement, (ii) the release of such Records is ordered pursuant to a subpoena or other order from a court of competent jurisdiction, (iii) disclosure of such information is necessary or advisable in connection with any action, claim, suit or proceeding, directly or indirectly, involving or potentially involving such Inspector and arising out of, based upon, relating to, or involving this Agreement or the Purchase Agreement, or any transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or arising hereunder or thereunder; , , that prior notice shall be provided as soon as practicable to the Company of the potential disclosure of any information by such Inspector pursuant to clauses (ii) or (iii) of this sentence to permit the Company and the Guarantors to obtain a protective order (or waive the provisions of this paragraph (n)) and that such Inspector shall take such actions as are reasonably necessary to protect the confidentiality of such information (if practicable) to the extent such action is otherwise not inconsistent with, an impairment of or in derogation of the rights and interests of the Holder or any Inspector, or (iv) the information in such Records has been made generally available to the public other than as a result of a breach of this Agreement.
Inspectors
Records
provided
however
(o) Provide an indenture trustee for the Registrable Notes or the Exchange Notes, as the case may be, and cause the Indenture or the trust indenture provided for in Section 2(a) hereof, as the case may be, to be qualified under the TIA not later than the
 
effective date of the first Registration Statement relating to the Registrable Notes; and in connection therewith, reasonably cooperate with the trustee under any such indenture and the Holders of the Registrable Notes, to effect such changes to such indenture as may be required for such indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the TIA; and execute, and use their respective reasonable best efforts to cause such trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes, and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the SEC to enable such indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner.
(p) Comply in all material respects with all applicable rules and regulations of the SEC and make generally available to their respective securityholders earnings statements satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and Rule 158 thereunder (or any similar rule promulgated under the Securities Act) no later than 45 days after the end of any 12-month period (or 90 days after the end of any 12-month period if such period is a fiscal year) (i) commencing at the end of any fiscal quarter in which Registrable Notes are sold to underwriters in a firm commitment or best efforts underwritten offering and (ii) if not sold to underwriters in such an offering, commencing on the first day of the first fiscal quarter of the Company after the effective date of a Registration Statement, which statements shall cover said 12-month periods.
(q) Upon consummation of the Exchange Offer or a Private Exchange, obtain an opinion of counsel to the Company and the Guarantors, in a form customary for underwritten transactions, addressed to the Trustee for the benefit of all Holders of Registrable Notes participating in the Exchange Offer or the Private Exchange, as the case may be, that the Exchange Notes or Private Exchange Notes, as the case may be, and the related indenture constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company (and the Guarantors, in the case of the guarantees thereof) enforceable against the Company (and the Guarantors, in the case of the guarantees thereof) in accordance with their terms, subject to customary exceptions and qualifications.
(r) If the Exchange Offer or a Private Exchange is to be consummated, upon delivery of the Registrable Notes by Holders to the Company (or to such other Person as directed by the Company) in exchange for the Exchange Notes or the Private Exchange Notes, as the case may be, the Company shall mark, or cause to be marked, on such Registrable Notes that such Registrable Notes are being cancelled in exchange for the Exchange Notes or the Private Exchange Notes, as the case may be; in no event shall such Registrable Notes be marked as paid or otherwise satisfied.
(s) Reasonably cooperate with each seller of Registrable Notes covered by any Registration Statement and each underwriter, if any, participating in the disposition of such Registrable Notes and their respective counsel in connection with any filings required to be made with the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (the "").
NASD
(t) Use their respective reasonable best efforts to take all other steps necessary or advisable to effect the registration of the Exchange Notes and/or Registrable Notes covered by a Registration Statement contemplated hereby.
 
The Company and the Guarantors may require each seller of Registrable Notes as to which any registration is being effected to furnish to the Company such information regarding such seller and the distribution of such Registrable Notes as the Company may, from time to time, reasonably request. The Company may exclude from such registration the Registrable Notes of any seller if such seller fails to furnish such information within 20 Business Days after receiving such request. Each seller as to which any registration is being effected agrees to furnish promptly to the Company all information required to be disclosed in order to make the information previously furnished to the Company by such seller not materially misleading.
If any such Registration Statement refers to any Holder by name or otherwise as the holder of any securities of the Company or any Guarantor, then such Holder shall have the right to require (i) the insertion therein of language, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Holder, to the effect that the holding by such Holder of such securities is not to be construed as a recommendation by such Holder of the investment quality of the securities covered thereby and that such holding does not imply that such Holder will assist in meeting any future financial requirements of the Company or such Guarantor, or (ii) in the event that such reference to such Holder by name or otherwise is not required by the Securities Act or any similar federal statute then in force, the deletion of the reference to such Holder in any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement filed or prepared subsequent to the time that such reference ceases to be required.
Each Holder of Registrable Notes and each Participating Broker-Dealer agrees by acquisition of such Registrable Notes or Exchange Notes to be sold by such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, that, upon actual receipt of any notice from the Company (x) of the happening of any event of the kind described in Section 5(c)(ii), 5(c)(iv), 5(c)(v), or 5(c)(vi) hereof or (y) that the Board of Directors of the Company has resolved that the Company has a business purpose for doing so (including the acquisition or divestiture of assets or a material corporate transaction or event), then, upon providing such notice (which shall refer to the final paragraph of this Section 5), the Company may delay the filing or the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration (if not then filed or effective, as applicable) and shall not be required to maintain the effectiveness thereof or amend or supplement the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration, in all cases, for a period (a "") expiring upon the earlier to occur of (i) in the case of the immediately preceding clause (x), such Holder's or Participating Broker-Dealer's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 5(k) hereof or until it is advised in writing (the "") by the Company that the use of the applicable Prospectus may be resumed, and has received copies of any amendments or supplements thereto or (ii) in the case of the immediately preceding clause (y), the date which is the earlier of (A) the date on which such business purpose ceases to interfere with the Issuers' obligations to file or maintain the effectiveness of any such Registration Statement pursuant to this Agreement or (B) 60 days after the Company notifies the Holders of such good faith determination. There shall not be more than 60 days of Delay Periods during any 12-month period. The maximum length of the Applicable Period set forth in Section 3(a) shall be extended by a number of days equal to the number of days during any Delay Period. Any Delay Period will not alter the obligations of the Issuers to pay Additional Interest under the circumstances set forth in Section 4 hereof.
bona fide
Delay Period
Advice
 
6. . All fees and expenses incident to the performance of or compliance with this Agreement by the Company and the Guarantors shall be borne by the Company and the Guarantors, whether or not any Exchange Offer or any Shelf Registration is filed or becomes effective or the Exchange Offer is consummated, including, without limitation, (i) all registration and filing fees (including, without limitation, (A) fees with respect to filings required to be made with the NASD in connection with an underwritten offering and (B) fees and expenses of compliance with state securities or Blue Sky laws (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel in connection with Blue Sky qualifications of the Registrable Notes or Exchange Notes and determination of the eligibility of the Registrable Notes or Exchange Notes for investment under the laws of such jurisdictions (x) where the holders of Registrable Notes are located, in the case of the Exchange Notes, or (y) as provided in Section 5(h) hereof, in the case of Registrable Notes or Exchange Notes to be sold by a Participating Broker-Dealer during the Applicable Period)), (ii) printing expenses, including, without limitation, expenses of printing certificates for Registrable Notes or Exchange Notes in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company and of printing prospectuses if the printing of prospectuses is requested by the managing underwriter or underwriters, if any, or by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Notes included in any Registration Statement or in respect of Registrable Notes or Exchange Notes to be sold by any Participating Broker-Dealer during the Applicable Period, as the case may be, (iii) messenger, telephone and delivery expenses of the Company and the Guarantors, (iv) fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company and the Guarantors and reasonable fees and disbursements of one special counsel for all of the sellers of Registrable Notes (exclusive of any counsel retained pursuant to Section 7 hereof), (v) fees and disbursements of all independent registered public accounting firm referred to in Section 5(m)(iii) hereof (including, without limitation, the expenses of any special audit and "cold comfort" letters required by or incident to such performance), (vi) Securities Act liability insurance, if the Company and the Guarantors desire such insurance, (vii) fees and expenses of all other Persons retained by the Company and the Guarantors, (viii) internal expenses of the Company and the Guarantors (including, without limitation, all salaries and expenses of officers and employees of the Company and the Guarantors performing legal or accounting duties), (ix) the expense of any annual audit, (x) the fees and expenses incurred by the Company and the Guarantors in connection with the listing of the securities to be registered on any securities exchange, and the obtaining of a rating of these securities, in each case, if applicable, and (xi) the expenses relating to printing, word processing and distributing all Registration Statements, underwriting agreements, indentures and any other documents necessary in order to comply with this Agreement.
Registration Expenses
7. .
Indemnification
(a) The Company and each Guarantor, jointly and severally, agree to indemnify and hold harmless each Holder of Registrable Notes and each Participating Broker Dealer selling Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period, their respective officers and directors, each person, if any, who controls any such Person, within the meaning of either Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, the agents, employees, officers and directors of each Holder and each such Participating Broker-Dealer and the agents, partners, members, employees, officers, managers and directors of any such controlling Person (each, a "") from and against any and all losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses whatsoever (including,
Participant
 
but not limited to, reasonable attorneys' fees and any and all reasonable expenses whatsoever actually incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever, and any and all reasonable amounts paid in settlement of any claim or litigation) (collectively, "") to which they or any of them may become subject under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise insofar as such Losses (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or Prospectus (as amended or supplemented if the Company shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto) or any preliminary prospectus, or caused by, arising out of or based upon any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the case of the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, that (i) the foregoing indemnity shall not be available to any Participant insofar as such Losses are caused by any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to such Participant furnished to the Company in writing by or on behalf of such Participant expressly for use therein.
Losses
provided
(b) Each Participant agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each Guarantor, each Person, if any, who controls the Company or any Guarantor within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act, and each of their respective agents, partners, members, employees, officers and members of the board of directors from and against any Losses to which they or any of them may become subject under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise insofar as such Losses (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or Prospectus (as amended or supplemented if the Company shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto) or any preliminary prospectus, or caused by, arising out of or based upon any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the case of the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that any such Loss arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to such Participant furnished in writing to the Company by or on behalf of such Participant expressly for use therein.
(c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under subsection 7(a) or 7(b) above of notice of the commencement of any action, suit or proceeding (collectively, an ""), such indemnified party shall, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under such subsection, notify each party against whom indemnification is to be sought in writing of the commencement of such action (but the failure so to notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability that it may have under this Section 7 except to the extent that it has been prejudiced in any material respect by such failure). In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party, and it notifies an indemnifying party of the commencement of such action, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in such action, and to the extent it may elect by written notice delivered to the indemnified party promptly after receiving the aforesaid notice from such indemnified party, to assume the defense
action
 
of such action with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the indemnified party or parties shall have the right to employ its or their own counsel in any such action, but the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party or parties unless (i) the employment of such counsel shall have been authorized in writing by the indemnifying parties in connection with the defense of such action, (ii) the indemnifying parties shall not have employed counsel to take charge of the defense of such action within a reasonable time after notice of commencement of the action, or (iii) the named parties to such action (including any impleaded parties) include such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or parties (or such indemnifying parties have assumed the defense of such action), and such indemnified party or parties shall have reasonably concluded, after consultation with counsel, that there may be defenses available to it or them that are different from or additional to those available to one or all of the indemnifying parties (in which case the indemnifying parties shall not have the right to direct the defense of such action on behalf of the indemnified party or parties), in any of which events such reasonable fees and expenses of counsel shall be borne by the indemnifying parties. In no event shall the indemnifying party be liable for the reasonable fees and expenses of more than one counsel (together with appropriate local counsel) at any time for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but substantially similar or related actions arising in the same jurisdiction out of the same general allegations or circumstances. Any such separate firm for the Participants shall be designated in writing by Participants who sold a majority in interest of Registrable Notes sold by all such Participants and shall be reasonably acceptable to the Company and any such separate firm for the Issuers, their affiliates, officers, directors, representatives, employees and agents and such control Person of such Issuers shall be designated in writing by such Issuers and shall be reasonably acceptable to the Holders. An indemnifying party shall not be liable for any settlement of any claim or action effected without its written consent, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section 7, then the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement and (iii) such indemnified party shall have given the indemnifying party at least 45 days' prior notice of its intention to settle. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement (x) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (y) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
(d) In order to provide for contribution in circumstances in which the indemnification provided for in this Section 7 is for any reason held to be unavailable from the indemnifying party for any Losses referred to therein, or is insufficient to hold harmless a party indemnified under this Section 7 for any Losses referred to therein, each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such aggregate
 
Losses (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by each indemnifying party, on the one hand, and each indemnified party, on the other hand, from the sale of the Notes to the Initial Purchasers or the resale of the Registrable Notes by such Holder, as applicable, or (ii) if such allocation is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of each indemnified party, on the one hand, and each indemnifying party, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such Losses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and each Participant, on the other hand, shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as (x) the total proceeds from the sale of the Notes to the Initial Purchasers (net of discounts and commissions but before deducting expenses) received by the Issuers are to (y) the total net profit received by such Participant in connection with the sale of the Registrable Notes. The relative fault of the parties shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or the Guarantors or such Participant and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission or alleged statement or omission.
(e) The parties agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation that does not take into account the equitable considerations referred to above. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, (i) in no case shall any Participant be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the net profit received by such Participant in connection with the sale of the Registrable Notes exceeds the amount of any damages that such Participant has otherwise been required to pay by reason of any untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission and (ii) no person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. Any party entitled to contribution will, promptly after receipt of notice of commencement of any action against such party in respect of which a claim for contribution may be made against another party or parties under this Section 7, notify such party or parties from whom contribution may be sought, but the omission to so notify such party or parties shall not relieve the party or parties from whom contribution may be sought from any obligation it or they may have under this Section 7 or otherwise, except to the extent that it has been prejudiced in any material respect by such failure; , , that no additional notice shall be required with respect to any action for which notice has been given under this Section 7 for purposes of indemnification. Anything in this section to the contrary notwithstanding, no party shall be liable for contribution with respect to any action or claim settled without its written consent, , , that such written consent was not unreasonably withheld.
provided
however
provided
however
8. . The Company covenants that it will use its reasonable best efforts to file the reports required to be filed by it under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations adopted by the SEC thereunder in a timely manner in accordance with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and, for so long as any Registrable Notes remain outstanding, if at any time the Company is not required to file such
Rules 144 and 144A
 
reports, it will, upon the request of any Holder or beneficial owner of Registrable Notes, make available such information necessary to permit sales pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act. The Company further covenants that, for so long as any Registrable Notes remain outstanding, it will use its reasonable best efforts to take such further action as any Holder of Registrable Notes may reasonably request, all to the extent required from time to time to enable such holder to sell Registrable Notes without registration under the Securities Act within the limitation of the exemptions provided by (a) Rule 144(k) and Rule 144A under the Securities Act, as such Rules may be amended from time to time, or (b) any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Section 8 shall be deemed to require the Company to register any of its securities pursuant to the Exchange Act.
9. . If any of the Registrable Notes covered by any Shelf Registration are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or managers that will manage the offering will be selected by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of such Registrable Notes included in such offering and reasonably acceptable to the Company.
Underwritten Registrations
No Holder of Registrable Notes may participate in any underwritten registration hereunder unless such Holder (a) agrees to sell such Holder's Registrable Notes on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the Persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (b) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
10. .
Miscellaneous
(a) . Neither the Company nor any Guarantor has, as of the date hereof, and neither the Company nor any Guarantor shall, after the date of this Agreement, enter into any agreement with respect to any of its securities that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Notes in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not in any way conflict with and are not inconsistent with the rights granted to the holders of the Company's or any Guarantor's other issued and outstanding securities under any such agreements. Neither the Company nor any Guarantor will enter into any agreement with respect to any of its securities which will grant to any Person piggy-back registration rights with respect to any Registration Statement.
No Inconsistent Agreements
(b) . Neither the Company nor any Guarantor shall, directly or indirectly, take any action with respect to the Registrable Notes as a class that would adversely affect the ability of the Holders of Registrable Notes to include such Registrable Notes in a registration undertaken pursuant to this Agreement.
Adjustments Affecting Registrable Notes
(c) . The provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, otherwise than with the prior written consent of (I) the Company and the Guarantors and (II)(A) the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Registrable Notes and (B) in circumstances that would adversely affect
Amendments and Waivers
 
the Participating Broker-Dealers, the Participating Broker-Dealers holding not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Exchange Notes held by all Participating Broker-Dealers; , , that Section 7 and this Section 10(c) may not be amended, modified or supplemented without the prior written consent of each Holder and each Participating Broker-Dealer (including any person who was a Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer of Registrable Notes or Exchange Notes, as the case may be, disposed of pursuant to any Registration Statement) affected by any such amendment, modification or supplement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a waiver or consent to depart from the provisions hereof with respect to a matter that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders of Registrable Notes whose securities are being sold pursuant to a Registration Statement and that does not directly or indirectly affect, impair, limit or compromise the rights of other Holders of Registrable Notes may be given by Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Notes being sold by such Holders pursuant to such Registration Statement.
provided
however
(d) . All notices and other communications (including without limitation any notices or other communications to the Trustee) provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, registered first-class mail, next-day air courier or facsimile:
Notices
(i) if to a Holder of Registrable Notes or any Participating Broker-Dealer, at the most current address of such Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, set forth on the records of the registrar under the Indenture.
(ii) if to the Company or any Guarantor at the address as follows:
Constellation Brands, Inc.
370 Woodcliff Drive, Suite 300,
Fairport, New York 14450
Attention: General Counsel
Facsimile: 585-218-3904
with a copy to:
McDermott, Will & Emery
227 West Monroe Street
Chicago, Illinois 60606-5096
Attention: Bernard Kramer, Esq.
Facsimile: (312) 984-7700
 
(iii) if to the Initial Purchasers at the address as follows:
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC
9 West 57th Street
New York , NY 10019
Attention: Legal Department
Facsimile: (212) 901-7897
with a copy to:
Cahill Gordon & Reindel
LLP
80 Pine Street
New York, New York 10005
Attention: Daniel J. Zubkoff
Facsimile: (212) 269-5420
All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: when delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; one Business Day after being timely delivered to a next-day air courier; and when receipt is acknowledged by the addressee, if sent by facsimile.
Copies of all such notices, demands or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee at the address and in the manner specified in such Indenture.
(e) . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of each of the parties hereto, the Holders and the Participating Broker-Dealers; , , that this Agreement shall not inure to the benefit of or be binding upon a successor or assign of a Holder unless and to the extent such successor or assign holds Registrable Notes.
Successors and Assigns
provided
however
(f) . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
(g) . The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings
(h) .
Governing Law; Jurisdiction
THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AS APPLIED TO CONTRACTS MADE AND PERFORMED WHOLLY WITHIN THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES TO SUBMIT TO THE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT.
 
(i) . If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions set forth herein shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated, and the parties hereto shall use their best efforts to find and employ an alternative means to achieve the same or substantially the same result as that contemplated by such term, provision, covenant or restriction. It is hereby stipulated and declared to be the intention of the parties hereto that they would have executed the remaining terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions without including any of such that may be hereafter declared invalid, illegal, void or unenforceable.
Severability
(j) . Whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Notes is required hereunder, Registrable Notes held by the Company, the Guarantors or any of their affiliates (as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage.
Securities Held by the Company or Its Affiliates
(k) . Holders of Registrable Notes and Participating Broker-Dealers are intended third party beneficiaries of this Agreement and this Agreement may be enforced by such Persons.
Third Party Beneficiaries
(l) . This Agreement, together with the Purchase Agreement and the Indenture, is intended by the parties as a final and exclusive statement of the agreement and understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein and therein and any and all prior oral or written agreements, representations, or warranties, contracts, understandings, correspondence, conversations and memoranda between the Holders on the one hand and the Company and the Guarantors on the other, or between or among any agents, representatives, parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, predecessors in interest or successors in interest with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof are merged herein and replaced hereby.
Entire Agreement
(m) . The Securities are limited in aggregate principal amount to $700,000,000. Additional amounts of Securities may be issued in one or more series from time to time under the Indenture (collectively "") prior to the filing of any Registration Statement. The Company and the Guarantors shall provide the registration rights set forth under this Agreement to the Initial Purchasers and any subsequent holder or holders of such Additional Notes and notwithstanding anything contained herein may but are not obligated to include such Additional Notes in any Registration Statement filed hereunder.
Additional Amounts of Securities
Additional Notes
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
May 9, 2007
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Constellation Brands, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), by this agreement (this "") proposes to issue and sell to Banc of America Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (the "") $700,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 7.25% Senior Notes due 2017 (the ""). The Notes will initially be unconditionally guaranteed (the "" and, together with the Notes, the "") by each of the subsidiaries of the Company listed on the signature pages hereto (collectively, the "" and, together with the Company, the ""). The Securities are to be issued under an indenture to be dated May 14, 2007 (the "") among the Company, the Guarantors (as defined below) and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "").
Company
Agreement
Initial Purchasers
Notes
Guarantees
Securities
Guarantors
Issuers
Indenture
Trustee
The sale of the Securities to the Initial Purchasers will be made without registration of the Securities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), in reliance upon exemptions therefrom.
Securities Act
In connection with the sale of the Securities, the Company and the Guarantors have prepared a preliminary offering memorandum, dated May 8, 2007 (the ""), and have prepared a pricing supplement, dated May 9, 2007 (the "") and attached as Exhibit A hereto, describing the terms of the Securities, each for the information of the Initial Purchasers and for delivery to prospective purchasers of the Securities. The Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Pricing Supplement are
Preliminary Offering Memorandum
Pricing Supplement
herein referred to as the ". Promptly after the time this Agreement is executed and delivered by the parties hereto (the ""), the Company will prepare and deliver to each Initial Purchaser a final offering memorandum dated the date hereof (the ""). Any reference to the Pricing Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum shall be deemed to refer to and include any Rule 144A(d)(4) Information (as defined in Section 5(l) of this Agreement) furnished by the Issuers prior to the completion of the distribution of the Securities.
Pricing Disclosure Package"
Time of Execution
Final Offering Memorandum
The purchasers of the Securities and their direct and indirect transferees will be entitled to the benefits of a Registration Rights Agreement, to be dated as of the Closing Date (as defined below) and to be substantially in the form attached hereto as Annex IV (the ""), pursuant to which the Company and the Guarantors will file one or more registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") registering with the Commission the Securities or the Exchange Securities referred to (and as defined) in such Registration Rights Agreement.
Registration Rights Agreement
Commission
The Issuers hereby agree with the Initial Purchasers as follows:
1. The Issuers hereby agree to issue and sell the Securities to the Initial Purchasers as hereinafter provided, and each Initial Purchaser, upon the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained, but subject to the conditions hereinafter stated, agrees to purchase from the Issuers the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth across such Initial Purchaser's name on Schedule I hereto at the purchase price set forth on such Schedule plus accrued interest, if any, from the date specified in Schedule I hereto to the date of payment and delivery.
2. The Issuers further understand that the Initial Purchasers intend to (i) privately offer the Securities as soon after this Agreement has become effective as in the judgment of the Initial Purchasers is advisable and (ii) initially offer the Securities upon the terms set forth in the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum.
The Issuers confirm that they have authorized the Initial Purchasers, subject to the restrictions set forth below, to distribute copies of the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum in connection with the offering of the Securities. Each Initial Purchaser hereby makes to the Issuers the following representations and agreements:
(a) it is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A under the Securities Act (""); and
Rule 144A
(b) (i) it will not solicit offers for, or offer to sell, the Securities by any form of general solicitation or general advertising (as those terms are used in Regulation D under the Securities Act ("")) and (ii) it will solicit offers for the Securities only from, and will offer the Securities only to, persons whom it reasonably
Regulation D
 
believes to be (A) in the case of offers inside the United States "qualified institutional buyers" within the meaning of Rule 144A; and (B) in the case of offers outside the United States, persons other than U.S. persons ("" which term shall include dealers or other professional fiduciaries in the United States acting on a discretionary basis for foreign beneficial owners (other than an estate or trust)) that, in each case, in purchasing the Securities are deemed to have represented and agreed as provided in the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum.
foreign purchasers
With respect to offers and sales outside the United States as described in clause (b)(ii)(B) above, each Initial Purchaser hereby represents and agrees with the Issuers that:
(a) it understands that no action has been or will be taken by the Issuers that would permit a public offering of the Securities, or possession or distribution of the Pricing Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum or any other offering or publicity material relating to the Securities, in any country or jurisdiction where action for that purpose is required, and each such Initial Purchaser has established procedures, and will conduct the offering of the Securities pursuant to such procedures, designed to comply in all material respects with all material securities laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in which it acquires, offers, sells or delivers the Securities or has in its possession or distributes the Pricing Disclosure Package or Final Offering Memorandum or any such other material, in all cases at its own expense;
(b) In relation to each Member State of the European Economic Area which has implemented the Prospectus Directive (each, a ""), with effect from and including the date on which the Prospectus Directive is implemented in that Relevant Member State (the "") it has not made and will not make an offer of Securities to the public in that Relevant Member State prior to the publication of a prospectus in relation to the Securities which has been approved by the competent authority in that Relevant Member State or, where appropriate, approved in another Relevant Member State and notified to the competent authority in that Relevant Member State, all in accordance with the Prospectus Directive, except that it may, with effect from and including the Relevant Implementation Date, make an offer of Securities to the public in that Relevant Member State at any time:
Relevant Member State
Relevant Implementation Date
(i) to legal entities which are authorized or regulated to operate in the financial markets or, if not so authorized or regulated, whose corporate purpose is solely to invest in securities;
(ii) to any legal entity which has two or more of (1) an average of at least 250 employees during the last financial year; (2) a total balance sheet of more than 43,000,000 and (3) an annual net turnover of more than 50,000,000, as shown in its last annual or consolidated accounts; or
 
(iii) in any other circumstances which do not require the publication by the Issuers of a prospectus pursuant to Article 3 of the Prospectus Directive;
(c) it understands that the Securities have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons except in accordance with Regulation S under the Securities Act or pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act;
(d) it has offered the Securities and will offer and sell the Securities (x) as part of its distribution at any time and (y) otherwise until 40 days after the later of the commencement of the Offering and the Closing Date, only in accordance with Rule 903 of Regulation S. Accordingly, neither such Initial Purchaser, nor any of its Affiliates, nor any person acting on its behalf has engaged or will engage in any directed selling efforts (within the meaning of Regulation S) with respect to the Securities, and such Initial Purchaser, its Affiliates and any such persons have complied and will comply with the offering restrictions requirement of Regulation S; and
(e) it agrees that, at or prior to confirmation of sales of the Securities, it will have sent to each distributor, dealer or person receiving a selling concession, fee or other remuneration that purchases Securities from it during the restricted period a confirmation or notice to substantially the following effect:
"The Securities covered hereby have not been registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act") and may not be offered and sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons (i) as part of their distribution at any time or (ii) otherwise prior to 40 days after the closing of the offering, except in either case in accordance with Regulation S (or Rule 144A, if available) under the Securities Act. Terms used above have the meaning given to them by Regulation S."
Terms used in this Section 2 and not otherwise defined in this Agreement have the meanings given to them by Regulation S.
Each Initial Purchaser, severally and not jointly, represents, warrants and agrees that:
(i) it has only communicated or caused to be communicated and will only communicate or cause to be communicated any invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity (within the meaning of Section 21 of the United Kingdom Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (the "")) received by it in connection with the issue or sale of any Securities in circumstances in which Section 21(1) of the FSMA does not apply to the Company or the Guarantors; and
FSMA
 
(ii) it has complied and will comply with all applicable provisions of the FSMA with respect to anything done by it in relation to the Securities in, from or otherwise involving the United Kingdom.
3. Payment for the Securities shall be made to the Company or to its order in immediately available funds on the date and at the time and place set forth in Schedule I hereto (or at such other time and place on the same or such other date, not later than the fifth Business Day thereafter, as the Initial Purchasers and the Company may agree in writing). The time and date of such payment for the Securities are referred to herein as the "." Such payment will be made upon delivery to the Initial Purchasers of the Securities registered in such names and in such denominations as the Initial Purchasers shall request not less than two full Business Days prior to the date of delivery, with any transfer taxes payable in connection with transfer to the Initial Purchasers duly paid by the Company. As used herein, the term "" means any day other than a day on which banks are permitted or required to be closed in New York City.
Closing Date
Business Day
Payment for the Securities shall be made against delivery to the nominee of The Depository Trust Company for the account of the Initial Purchasers of one or more global notes representing the Securities (collectively, the ""), with any transfer taxes payable in connection with the transfer to the Initial Purchasers paid by the Company. The Global Note will be made available for inspection by the Initial Purchasers at the office of Cahill Gordon & Reindel , 80 Pine Street, New York, New York 10005, or at such other location as the Company and the Initial Purchasers agree, not later than 1:00 P.M., New York City time, on the Business Day prior to the Closing Date.
Global Note
LLP
4. Each of the Issuers represents and warrants to each Initial Purchaser that:
(a) Neither the Pricing Disclosure Package, as of the Time of Execution, nor the Final Offering Memorandum, as of its date or as of the Closing Date (as amended or supplemented in accordance with Section 5(c), if applicable), contains or represents an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided that this representation, warranty and agreement shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Pricing Disclosure Package, the Final Offering Memorandum or any amendment or supplement thereto made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any Initial Purchaser expressly for use in the Pricing Disclosure Package, the Final Offering Memorandum or any amendment or supplement thereto, as the case may be (it being agreed that such information consists solely of the Initial Purchasers' Information (as defined in Section 7)). The Pricing Disclosure Package contains, and the Final Offering Memorandum will contain, all the information specified in, and
 
meeting the requirements of, Rule 144A. The Company (including its agents and representatives, other than the Initial Purchasers in their capacity as such) has not prepared, made, used, authorized, approved or referred to and will not prepare, make, use, authorize, approve or refer to any written communication that constitutes an offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy the Securities (each such communication by the Company or its agents and representatives (other than a communication referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) below) an "") other than (i) the Pricing Disclosure Package, (ii) the Offering Memorandum, and (iii) any electronic road show or other written communications, in each case used in accordance with Section 5(t). Each such Issuer Written Communication, when taken together with the Pricing Disclosure Package, did not, and at the Closing Date will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that the Company makes no representation and warranty with respect to any statements or omissions made in each such Issuer Written Communication in reliance upon and in conformity with the Initial Purchasers' Information provided by any Initial Purchaser expressly for use in any Issuer Written Communication.
Issuer Written Communication
provided
(b) The documents incorporated by reference in the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, when they became effective or were filed with the Commission, as the case may be, conformed in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the ""), as applicable, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, and none of such documents contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; and any further documents so filed and incorporated by reference in the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, when such documents become effective or are filed with the Commission, as the case may be, will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
Exchange Act
(c) The Company and each of its consolidated subsidiaries (the "") have been duly incorporated or otherwise organized and are validly existing as corporations, limited liability companies, partnerships or other forms of entity, as the case may be, in good standing under the laws of their respective jurisdictions of incorporation or organization, with full power and authority (including, as applicable, corporate and other) to own their properties and conduct their respective businesses as described in the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum and
Subsidiaries
 
are duly qualified to transact business as foreign corporations in good standing under the laws of each jurisdiction where the ownership or leasing of their respective properties or the conduct of their respective businesses requires such qualification, except where the failure to be so qualified or in good standing would not have a material adverse effect on the business, management, condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations or business prospects of the Company and its Subsidiaries considered as a whole (a ""); the Company had at the dates indicated an authorized capitalization as set forth in the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, and the issued shares of capital stock of the Company have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and non-assessable, and the outstanding shares of capital stock or other ownership interests of each of the Company's Subsidiaries have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and non-assessable (to the extent applicable) and (except for directors' qualifying shares) are owned beneficially by the Company free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, equities and claims (collectively, "") except for the Liens securing the Company's Credit Agreement, dated as of June 5, 2006 (the ""), described in the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum. Neither the Company nor any of the Guarantors is in violation of its respective charter, bylaws or other organizational documents and neither the Company nor any of the Guarantors is in default (nor has an event occurred with notice, lapse of time or both that would constitute a default) in the performance of any obligation, agreement or condition contained in any agreement, lease, indenture or instrument of the Company or any Guarantor where such violation or default would have a Material Adverse Effect.
Material Adverse Effect
Liens
Credit Agreement
(d) The Issuers have full power and authority to enter into this Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Indenture and to issue, sell and deliver the Notes, in the case of the Company, and the Guarantees, in the case of the Guarantors, to be sold by them to the Initial Purchasers as provided herein and therein. The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Indenture, the Securities and the Exchange Notes (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement) by the Company and the Guarantors, as the case may be, and the consummation by the Company and the Guarantors of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby does not and will not conflict with or result in a breach or violation by the Company or any Subsidiary, as the case may be, of any of the terms or provisions of, constitute a default by the Company or any Subsidiary, as the case may be, under, or result in the creation or imposition of any Lien upon any of the assets of the Company or any Subsidiary pursuant to the terms of, (A) the Credit Agreement or any other indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement, lease or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any Subsidiary is a party or to which any of them or any of their respective properties is subject, (B) the charter, bylaws or other organizational documents of the Company or any Subsidiary or (C) any statute, judgment, decree, order, rule or regulation of any foreign or domestic court, governmental
 
agency or regulatory agency or body having jurisdiction over the Company or any of the Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties or assets except, with respect to clauses (A) and (C) of this Section 4(d), for any conflict, breach, violation, default or Liens that would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
(e) The execution and delivery of the Indenture has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other action of the Issuers and, when the Indenture has been duly executed and delivered in accordance with its terms by each party thereto, will be a legal, valid and binding agreement of the Issuers, enforceable against the Issuers in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar laws relating to creditors' rights generally, and subject, as to enforceability, to general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforcement may be sought in a proceeding in equity or at law). The issuance, execution and delivery of the Notes and the Exchange Notes (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action of the Company and, when executed, issued and delivered by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee and paid for in accordance with this Agreement, will be the legal, valid, binding and enforceable obligations of the Company, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, and subject, as to enforceability, to general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforcement may be sought in a proceeding in equity or at law). The issuance, execution and delivery of the Guarantees has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other action of each Guarantor and, when executed, issued and delivered by each Guarantor and when the Notes are authenticated by the Trustee and paid for in accordance with this Agreement, the Guarantees will be the legal, valid, binding and enforceable obligations of each Guarantor, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, and subject, as to enforceability, to general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforcement may be sought in a proceeding in equity or at law). The execution and delivery of the Registration Rights Agreement has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other action of the Issuers and, when the Registration Rights Agreement has been duly executed and delivered in accordance with its terms by each party thereto, will be a legal, valid and binding agreement of the Issuers, enforceable against the Issuers in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar laws relating to creditors' rights generally, and subject, as to enforceability, to general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforcement may be sought in a proceeding in equity or at law). The execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Issuers has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other action, and this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Issuers and is the valid and legally binding agreement of each of the Issuers.
 
(f) Except as described or referred to in the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, there is not pending, or to the knowledge of the Issuers threatened, any action, suit, proceeding, inquiry or investigation to which the Company or any of the Subsidiaries is a party, or to which the property of the Company or any of the Subsidiaries is subject, before or brought by any court or governmental agency or body, which, if determined adversely to the Company or any of the Subsidiaries, would individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect or might materially adversely affect the consummation of the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement; and all pending legal or governmental proceedings to which the Company or any of the Subsidiaries is a party or that affect any of their respective properties that are not described in the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, including ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, would not, in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(g) KPMG LLP are independent registered public accountants with respect to the Company and its Subsidiaries within the meaning of the Securities Act and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder. The historical financial statements of the Company (including the related notes) contained in or incorporated by reference in the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements applicable to a registration statement on Form S-3 under the Securities Act; such historical financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles ("") consistently applied throughout the periods covered thereby and fairly present the financial position of the Company at the respective dates indicated and the results of its operations, cash flows and statements of stockholders' equity for the respective periods indicated. The financial information contained in or incorporated by reference in the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum and relating to the Company is derived from the accounting records of the Company and its Subsidiaries and fairly presents in all material respects the information purported to be shown thereby. The other historical financial and statistical information and data included in the Pricing Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum fairly presents, in all material respects, the information purported to be shown thereby.
GAAP
(h) Except as described in or contemplated by the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, subsequent to February 28, 2007, (i) neither the Company nor any of the Subsidiaries has sustained any loss or interference with its business or properties from fire, flood, hurricane, accident or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor dispute or court or governmental action, order or decree which would have a Material Adverse Effect; and (ii) there has not been any change in the capital stock of the Company (other than as a result of the exercise of the Company's outstanding stock options, purchases under the Company's 1989 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended, any purchases under the Company's
 
UK Sharesave Scheme, restricted Class A Common Stock grants to the Company's directors and employees or as a result of the conversion of the Company's Class B Common Stock into Class A Common Stock) or any material change in the consolidated long-term debt of the Company, or any material adverse change, or any development involving a prospective material adverse change, in or affecting the business, condition (financial or otherwise), prospects or operations of the Company and the Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
(i) The Company and each of the Subsidiaries have good and marketable title to all properties and assets, as described in the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum as owned by them free and clear of all Liens, except as provided in the Credit Agreement and such as are described in the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum or do not interfere with the use made and proposed to be made of such properties by the Company and the Subsidiaries and would not individually or in the aggregate result in a Material Adverse Effect; and all of the leases and subleases material to the business of the Company and the Subsidiaries taken as a whole, and under which the Company or any of the Subsidiaries holds properties described in the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, are in full force and effect and neither the Company nor any of the Subsidiaries has any notice of any claims of any sort that have been asserted by anyone adverse to the rights of the Company or any of the Subsidiaries under such leases or subleases, or affecting or questioning the rights of the Company or any of the Subsidiaries to the continued possession of the leased or subleased premises under any such lease or sublease, which claims would have a Material Adverse Effect.
(j) Each of the Company and the Subsidiaries owns or possesses all governmental and other licenses, permits, certificates, consents, orders, approvals and other authorizations necessary to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as presently conducted by it and described in the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, except where the failure to own or possess such licenses, permits, certificates, consents, orders, approvals and other authorizations would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect (collectively, the ""); all of the Material Licenses are valid and in full force and effect, except where the invalidity of such Material License or the failure of such Material License to be in full force and effect would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; and none of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries has received any notice of proceedings relating to revocation or modification of any such Material Licenses which would, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
Material Licenses
(k) Each of the Company and its Subsidiaries owns or possesses, or can acquire on reasonable terms, adequate patents, patent rights, licenses, inventions,
 
copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade names and know-how (including trade secrets and other patentable and/or unpatentable proprietary or confidential information or procedures) (collectively, "") necessary to carry on its business as presently operated by it, except where the failure to own or possess or have the ability to acquire any such intellectual property would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; and none of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries has received any notice or is otherwise aware of any infringement of or conflict with asserted rights of others with respect to any intellectual property or of any facts which would render any intellectual property invalid or inadequate to protect the interest of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries therein and which infringement or conflict would have a Material Adverse Effect.
intellectual property
(l) None of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries has taken, or will take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to, or that might be reasonably expected to, cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Securities.
(m) None of the Issuers, any affiliate of any Issuer or any person acting on its or their behalf has offered or sold the Securities by means of any general solicitation or general advertising within the meaning of Rule 502(c) under the Securities Act or by means of any directed selling efforts within the meaning of Rule 902 under the Securities Act and each of the Issuers, any affiliate of any Issuer and any person acting on its or their behalf have complied with and will implement the "offering restrictions" requirements of Regulation S.
(n) The Securities satisfy the requirements set forth in Rule 144A(d)(3) under the Securities Act.
(o) Assuming the accuracy of the representations of the Initial Purchasers contained in Section 4 hereof, it is not necessary in connection with the offer, sale and delivery of the Securities in the manner contemplated by this Agreement to register the Securities under the Securities Act or to qualify an indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "").
TIA
(p) None of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is an investment company required to be registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
(q) Except as described in the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, the Company and its Subsidiaries comply in all material respects with all Environmental Laws (as defined below), except to the extent that failure to comply with such Environmental Laws would not individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect. None of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is the subject of any pending or, to the knowledge of any of the Issuers, threatened foreign,
 
federal, state or local investigation evaluating whether any remedial action by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is needed to respond to a release of any Hazardous Materials (as defined below) into the environment, resulting from the Company's or any of its Subsidiaries' business operations or ownership or possession of any of their properties or assets, or is in contravention of any Environmental Law that would, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. None of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries has received any notice or claim, nor are there pending or, to the knowledge of any of the Issuers, threatened lawsuits against them, with respect to violations of an Environmental Law or in connection with any release of any Hazardous Material into the environment that would have a Material Adverse Effect. As used herein, "" means any foreign, federal, state or local law or regulation applicable to the Company's or any of its Subsidiaries' business operations or ownership or possession of any of their properties or assets relating to environmental matters, and "" means those substances that are regulated by or form the basis of liability under any Environmental Laws.
Environmental Laws
Hazardous Materials
(r) No relationship, direct or indirect, exists between or among the Company and its Subsidiaries on the one hand, and the directors, officers, stockholders, customers or suppliers of the Company on the other hand, which is required to be described in the documents incorporated by reference into the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum that is not so described.
(s) No labor problem exists with the employees of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Issuers, is imminent that, in either case, would have a Material Adverse Effect.
(t) Except as disclosed in the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, all United States federal income tax returns and all foreign tax returns of the Company and its Subsidiaries required by law to be filed have been filed (taking into account extensions granted by the applicable federal governmental agency) and all taxes shown by such returns or otherwise assessed, which are due and payable, have been paid, except for such taxes, if any, as are being contested in good faith and as to which adequate reserves have been provided and except for such taxes the payment of which would not individually or in the aggregate result in a Material Adverse Effect. All other corporate franchise and income tax returns of the Company and its Subsidiaries required to be filed pursuant to applicable foreign, federal, state or local laws have been filed, except insofar as the failure to file such returns would not individually or in the aggregate result in a Material Adverse Effect, and all taxes shown on such returns or otherwise assessed which are due and payable have been paid, except for such taxes, if any, as are being contested in good faith and as to which adequate reserves have been provided and except for such taxes the payment of which would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(u) The Company and each of its Subsidiaries maintain (and in the future will maintain) a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (A) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; (B) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP and to maintain accountability for assets; (C) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (D) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
(v) The Company maintains an effective system of "disclosure controls and procedures" (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act) that is designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms, including controls and procedures designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. The Company has carried out evaluations, with the participation of their respective principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions of the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures as required by Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act.
(w) Each of the Company and its Subsidiaries is in compliance with, and none of such entities has received any notice of any outstanding violation of, all laws, regulations, ordinances and rules applicable to it and its operations, except, in either case, where any failure by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to comply with any such law, regulation, ordinance or rule would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(x) Neither the issuance, sale or delivery of the Securities nor the application of the proceeds thereof by the Company as set forth in the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum will violate Regulation T, U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any other regulation of such Board of Governors.
(y) The Company and the Guarantors, taken as a whole, are, and immediately after the Closing Date will be, Solvent. As used herein, the term "" means, with respect to the Company and the Guarantors on a particular date, that on such date (A) the fair market value of the assets of the Company and the Guarantors is greater than the amount that will be required to pay the probable liabilities of such entities on their debts as they become absolute and matured, (B) assuming the sale of the Securities as contemplated by this Agreement and as described in the Pricing Disclosure
Solvent
 
Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, the Company and the Guarantors are not incurring debts or liabilities beyond their ability to pay as such debts and liabilities mature, (C) the Company and the Guarantors are able to realize upon their assets and pay their debts and other liabilities, including contingent obligations, as they mature and (D) the Company and the Guarantors do not have unreasonably small capital.
(z) Other than this Agreement, neither the Company nor any Subsidiary is a party to any contract, agreement or understanding with any person that would give rise to a valid claim against the Issuers or any Subsidiary or any Initial Purchaser for a brokerage commission, finders' fee or like payment in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities.
(aa) No forward-looking statement (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act) contained in the Pricing Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum has been made or reaffirmed without a reasonable basis or has been disclosed other than in good faith.
Any certificate signed by an officer of any of the Issuers and delivered to the Initial Purchasers or to counsel for the Initial Purchasers at or prior to the Closing Date pursuant to any section of this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby shall be deemed a representation and warranty by such Issuer, to each Initial Purchaser as to the matters covered thereby.
5. Each of the Issuers covenants and agrees with the Initial Purchasers:
(a) to furnish copies of the Final Offering Memorandum to the Initial Purchasers and to such dealers as the Initial Purchasers shall specify in New York City as soon as practicable (but in any event in sufficient time as to allow the Initial Purchasers and such dealers to deliver such Final Offering Memorandum prior to or simultaneously with confirmations of sale) after the date of this Agreement in such quantities as the Initial Purchasers may reasonably request;
(b) to furnish to the Initial Purchasers without charge, as many copies of the exhibits and documents incorporated by reference in the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum as the Initial Purchasers may reasonably request;
(c) to not make any amendment or supplement to the Pricing Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum of which the Initial Purchasers shall not previously have been advised or to which the Initial Purchasers or counsel for the Initial Purchasers shall reasonably object; and to prepare, promptly upon the Initial Purchasers' reasonable request, any amendment or supplement to the Pricing Disclosure
 
Package and the Final Offering Memorandum that, in the opinion of counsel for the Initial Purchasers, may be necessary in connection with the distribution of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers;
(d) that, if at any time prior to the completion of the initial placement of the Securities, any event shall occur as a result of which it is necessary to amend or supplement the Pricing Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum in order that the Pricing Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum does not contain an untrue statement of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or if it is necessary to amend or supplement the Pricing Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum to comply with law, forthwith to prepare and furnish, at the expense of the Issuers, to the Initial Purchasers and to the dealers (whose names and addresses the Initial Purchasers will furnish to the Issuers) to which Securities may have been sold by the Initial Purchasers on behalf of the Initial Purchasers and to any other dealers upon request, such amendments or supplements to the Pricing Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum as may be necessary so that the statements in the Pricing Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum as so amended or supplemented will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or so that the Pricing Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum will comply with law;
(e) to use its commercially reasonable best efforts to qualify the Securities for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky of such jurisdictions as the Initial Purchasers shall reasonably request and to continue such qualification in effect so long as reasonably required for distribution of the Securities and to pay all fees and expenses (including fees and disbursements of counsel to the Initial Purchasers) incurred in connection with such qualification; that the Issuers shall not be required to file a general consent to service of process in any jurisdiction or to qualify as a foreign corporation in any jurisdiction, and provided, further, that all fees and expenses incurred in connection with qualifying the Securities for offer and sale after the first anniversary of the public offering of such Securities shall be paid by the Initial Purchasers;
provided
(f) whether or not the transactions contemplated in this Agreement are consummated or this Agreement is terminated, to pay or cause to be paid all costs and expenses incident to the performance of the obligations of the Issuers hereunder, including without limiting the generality of the foregoing, all costs and expenses (i) incident to the preparation, issuance, execution and delivery of the Securities (including the payment of any stamp tax or duty in connection therewith), (ii) incident to the preparation and printing of the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering
 
Memorandum (including all exhibits, amendments and supplements thereto), (iii) incurred in connection with the registration or qualification of the Securities under the applicable securities laws of such jurisdictions as the Initial Purchasers may reasonably designate (including fees of counsel for the Initial Purchasers and its reasonable disbursements in connection therewith), (iv) related to any required filing with, and review by, the NASD, (v) in connection with the printing (including word processing and duplication costs) and delivery of this Agreement and the furnishing to the Initial Purchasers and dealers of copies of the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, including mailing and shipping, as herein provided, (vi) the cost and charges of any transfer agent, registrar, listing agent, paying agent or custodian, (vii) the transportation and other expenses incurred by or on behalf of Company representatives in connection with presentations to prospective purchasers of the Securities, (viii) the fees and expenses of the Company's accountants and the fees and expenses of counsel (including local and special counsel) for the Company and (ix) all other costs and expenses incidental to the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder.
(g) to use the net proceeds received by it from the sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement in the manner specified in the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum under the caption "Use of Proceeds";
(h) to use its best efforts to do and perform all things required to be done and performed under this Agreement by the Issuers prior to the Closing Date and to satisfy all conditions precedent to the delivery of the Securities;
(i) to take all reasonable action necessary to enable Moody's Investors Service, Inc. ("") and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. ("") or their respective successors or assigns, to provide their respective credit ratings of the Securities;
Moody's
S&P
(j) during the period beginning on the date hereof and continuing to and including the Business Day following the date that is 60 days after the Closing Date, not to offer, sell, contract to sell, or otherwise dispose of any debt securities of or guaranteed by the Company or any Guarantor which are substantially similar to the Securities without the consent of Banc of America Securities LLC (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld);
(k) to use its best efforts to cause the Securities to be eligible for trading on The PORTAL Market of the NASD;
(l) while the Securities remain outstanding and are "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144(a)(3) under the Securities Act, that each of the Company and each Guarantor will, during any period in which it is not subject to Section
 
13 or 15(d) under the Exchange Act, make available to the purchasers and any holder of Securities in connection with any sale thereof and any prospective purchaser of Securities and securities analysts, in each case upon request, the information specified in, and meeting the requirements of, Rule 144A(d)(4) ("") under the Securities Act (or any successor thereto);
Rule 144A(d)(4) Information
(m) that neither the Company nor any Guarantor will take any action prohibited by Regulation M under the Exchange Act, in connection with the distribution of the Securities contemplated hereby;
(n) that except as contemplated under the Registration Rights Agreement, none of the Company, any Guarantor, any of their respective affiliates (as defined in Rule 501(b) under the Securities Act) or any person acting on behalf of the Company, the Guarantor or such affiliate will solicit any offer to buy or offer or sell the Securities by means of any form of general solicitation or general advertising, including: (i) any advertisement, article, notice or other communication published in any newspaper, magazine or similar medium or broadcast over television or radio; and (ii) any seminar or meeting whose attendees have been invited by any general solicitation or general advertising;
(o) that none of the Company, any Guarantor, any of their respective affiliates (as defined in Rule 144(a)(1) under the Securities Act) or any person acting on behalf of any of the foregoing has engaged or will engage in any directed selling efforts with respect to the Securities within the meaning of Regulation S under the Securities Act;
(p) that none of the Issuers, any of their respective affiliates (as defined in Regulation 501(b) of Regulation D under the Securities Act) or any person acting on behalf of the Issuers or such affiliates will sell, offer for sale or solicit offers to buy or otherwise negotiate in respect of any security (as defined in the Securities Act) which will be integrated with the sale of the Securities in a manner which would require the registration under the Securities Act of the Securities and the Company and each Guarantor will take all action that is appropriate or necessary to assure that their offerings of other securities will not be integrated for purposes of the Securities Act with the offerings contemplated hereby;
(q) with respect to Securities sold outside the United States to non-U.S. persons (as defined in Rule 902 under the Securities Act), not to register any transfer of such Securities not made in accordance with the provisions of Regulation S under the Securities Act and not to, except in accordance with the provisions of Regulation S under the Securities Act, issue any such Securities in definitive form in contravention of Regulation S under the Securities Act;
 
(r) to comply with all of the terms and conditions of the Registration Rights Agreement;
(s) prior to any registration of the Securities pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, or at such earlier time as may be so required, to qualify the Indenture under the TIA, and to enter into any necessary supplemental indentures in connection therewith; and
(t) Before making, preparing, using, authorizing, approving or referring to any Issuer Written Communication, the Company will furnish to the Initial Purchasers and counsel for the Initial Purchasers a copy of such written communication for review and will not make, prepare, use, authorize, approve or refer to any such written communication to which the Initial Purchasers reasonably object.
6. The obligations of the Initial Purchasers to purchase the Securities shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Issuers contained herein as of the Execution Time and the Closing Date, to the accuracy of the statements of the Company made in any certificates pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Issuers of their obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions:
(a) McDermott, Will & Emery LLP, special counsel for the Company, shall have furnished to the Initial Purchasers its written opinion addressed to the Initial Purchasers, dated the Closing Date, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Initial Purchasers, substantially in the form of Annex I hereto.
(b) Nixon Peabody LLP, counsel for the Issuers, shall have furnished to the Initial Purchasers its written opinion addressed to the Initial Purchasers, dated the Closing Date, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Initial Purchasers, substantially in the form of Annex II hereto.
(c) DLA Piper US LLP, local counsel for one of the Guarantors, shall have furnished to the Initial Purchasers its written opinion addressed to the Initial Purchasers, dated the Closing Date, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Initial Purchasers, substantially in the form of Annex III hereto.
(d) The Initial Purchasers shall have received from Cahill Gordon & Reindel , counsel for the Initial Purchasers, such opinion or opinions, dated the Closing Date and addressed to the Initial Purchasers, with respect to the issuance and sale of the Securities, the Indenture, the Pricing Disclosure Package, the Final Offering Memorandum (together with any supplement thereto) and other related matters as the Initial Purchasers may reasonably require, and the Issuers shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters.
LLP
 
(e) The Company shall have furnished to the Initial Purchasers a certificate of the Company, signed by the Company's Treasurer or another officer of the Company with specific knowledge about the Company's financial and operational matters reasonably satisfactory to the Initial Purchasers, dated the Closing Date, to the effect that the signer of such certificate has carefully examined the Pricing Disclosure Package, the Final Offering Memorandum and any supplements or amendments thereto used in connection with the offering of the Securities, and this Agreement and that:
(i) the representations and warranties of each of the Issuers in this Agreement are true and correct on and as of the Closing Date with the same effect as if made on the Closing Date and the Issuers have complied with all the agreements and satisfied all the conditions on their part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to the Closing Date; and
(ii) since February 28, 2007, there shall not have occurred any event that would have a Material Adverse Effect or any development involving a prospective Material Adverse Effect, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum (exclusive of any supplement thereto).
(f) The Issuers shall have requested and caused KPMG LLP to have furnished to the Initial Purchasers, at the Execution Time and at the Closing Date, letters (which may refer to letters previously delivered to the Initial Purchasers), dated respectively as of the Execution Time and as of the Closing Date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Initial Purchasers, containing statements and information of the type customarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information incorporated by reference in the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum.
(g) Subsequent to the Execution Time or, if earlier, the dates as of which information is given in the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto), there shall not have been (i) any change or decrease specified in the letter or letters referred to in paragraph (f) of this Section 6 or (ii) any change, or any development involving a prospective change, in or affecting the condition (financial or otherwise), earnings, business or properties of the Issuers and their subsidiaries taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto), the effect of which, in any case referred to in clause (i) or (ii) above, is, in the sole judgment of the Initial Purchasers, so material and adverse as to make it impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering
 
or delivery of the Securities as contemplated by the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto).
(h) Subsequent to the Execution Time, there shall not have been any decrease in the rating of any of the Company's debt securities by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (as defined for purposes of Rule 436(g) under the Securities Act) or any notice given of any intended or potential decrease in any such rating or of a possible change in any such rating that does not indicate the direction of the possible change.
(i) Prior to the Closing Date, the Issuers shall have furnished to the Initial Purchasers such further information, certificates and documents as the Initial Purchasers may reasonably request.
If any of the conditions specified in this Section 6 shall not have been fulfilled in all material respects when and as provided in this Agreement, or if any of the opinions and certificates mentioned above or elsewhere in this Agreement shall not be in all material respects reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Initial Purchasers and counsel for the Initial Purchasers, this Agreement and all obligations of the Initial Purchasers hereunder may be canceled at, or at any time prior to, the Closing Date by the Initial Purchasers. Notice of such cancellation shall be given to the Company in writing or by telephone or facsimile confirmed in writing.
The documents required to be delivered by this Section 6 shall be delivered at the office of Cahill Gordon & Reindel , counsel for the Initial Purchasers, at 80 Pine Street, New York, New York 10005, on the Closing Date.
LLP
7. The Issuers, jointly and severally, agree to indemnify and hold harmless each Initial Purchaser, its officers and directors, each person, if any, who controls any Initial Purchaser and each affiliate of any Initial Purchaser which assists such Initial Purchaser in the distribution of the Securities, within the meaning of either Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, the legal fees and other expenses incurred in connection with any suit, action or proceeding or any claim asserted) caused by any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Pricing Disclosure Package, any Issuer Written Communication or the Final Offering Memorandum (as amended or supplemented if the Issuers shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto), or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, except with respect to the Pricing Disclosure Package, any Issuer Written Communication and the Final Offering Memorandum, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities are caused by any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any Initial Purchasers' Information.
 
Each Initial Purchaser agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each of the Issuers, its directors, its officers and each person who controls such Issuer within the meaning of either Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Issuers to each Initial Purchaser, but only with reference to such losses, claims, damages or liabilities which are caused by any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any Initial Purchasers' Information (as defined below) provided by such Initial Purchaser. For purposes of this Agreement, the "" consists of the following: in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Final Offering Memorandum in the last paragraph of the cover page regarding delivery of the Securities and, under the heading "Plan of Distribution": (x) the list of Initial Purchasers and their respective participation in the sale of the Securities and (y) the paragraph related to stabilization, syndicate covering transactions and penalty bids constitute the only information furnished in writing by or on behalf of the several Initial Purchasers for inclusion in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, the Final Offering Memorandum or any Issuer Written Communication.
Initial Purchasers' Information
If any suit, action, proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation), claim or demand shall be brought or asserted against any person in respect of which indemnity may be sought pursuant to either of the two preceding paragraphs, such person (the "") shall promptly notify the person or persons against whom such indemnity may be sought (each an "") in writing, and such Indemnifying Person, upon request of the Indemnified Person, shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person to represent the Indemnified Person and any others entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Section 7 that the Indemnifying Person may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the fees and expenses of such counsel related to such proceeding. In any such proceeding, any Indemnified Person shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Person unless (i) such Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person shall have mutually agreed to the contrary, (ii) such Indemnifying Person has failed within a reasonable time to retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Person or (iii) the named parties in any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include an Indemnifying Person and an Indemnified Person and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them. It is understood that an Indemnifying Person shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceedings in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Indemnified Persons, and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred. Any such separate firm for any Initial Purchaser, each affiliate of any Initial Purchaser which assists such Initial Purchaser in the distribution of the Securities and such control persons of any Initial Purchaser shall be designated in writing
Indemnified Person
Indemnifying Person
 
by the Initial Purchasers, and any such separate firm for the Issuers, their respective directors, their respective officers and such control persons of any of the Issuers shall be designated in writing by the Company. The Indemnifying Person shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, such Indemnifying Person agrees to indemnify each Indemnified Person from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment. No Indemnifying Person shall, without the prior written consent of the Indemnified Person, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Person is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, unless such settlement includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Person from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding.
If the indemnification provided for in the first and second paragraphs of this Section 7 is unavailable to an Indemnified Person or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Person under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Person thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Issuers on the one hand and the Initial Purchasers on the other hand from the offering of the Securities or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Issuers on the one hand and the Initial Purchasers on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Issuers on the one hand and the Initial Purchasers on the other shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the net proceeds from the offering and sale of the Securities (before deducting expenses) received by the Issuers and the total underwriting commissions received by the Initial Purchasers. The relative fault of the Issuers on the one hand and the Initial Purchasers on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Issuers, on the one hand, or by the Initial Purchasers on the other hand and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
Each of the Issuers and each of the Initial Purchasers agrees that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by allocation or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph. The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Person as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph shall be deemed to include, subject to the
pro rata
 
limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses incurred by such Indemnified Person in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, in no case shall any Initial Purchaser (except as may be provided in any agreement among the Initial Purchasers relating to the offering of the Securities) be responsible for any amount in excess of the underwriting discount or commission applicable to the Securities purchased by such Initial Purchaser hereunder. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
The remedies provided for in this Section 7 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies that may otherwise be available to any indemnified party at law or in equity.
The indemnity and contribution agreements contained in this Section 7 and the representations and warranties of the Company set forth in this Agreement shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any termination of this Agreement, (ii) any investigation made by or on behalf of any Initial Purchaser or any person controlling any Initial Purchaser or by or on behalf of the Issuers, their respective officers or directors or any other person controlling any of the Issuers and (iii) acceptance of and payment for any of the Securities.
8. This Agreement shall be subject to termination in the absolute discretion of the Initial Purchasers, by notice given to the Company prior to delivery of and payment for the Securities, if at any time prior to such delivery and payment (i) trading in the Company's common stock shall have been suspended by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange or trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or limited or minimum prices shall have been established on such exchange, (ii) a banking moratorium shall have been declared either by Federal or New York State authorities or (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities, declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war, or other calamity or crisis the effect of which on financial markets is such as to make it, in the sole judgment of the Initial Purchasers, impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering, sale or delivery of the Securities as contemplated in the Pricing Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto).
9. This Agreement shall become effective upon the Time of Execution.
10. If this Agreement shall be terminated by the Initial Purchasers, because of any failure or refusal on the part of any of the Issuers to comply with the terms or to fulfill any of the conditions of this Agreement, or if for any reason any of the Issuers shall be unable to perform its respective obligations under this Agreement or any condition of the Initial Purchasers' obligations cannot be fulfilled, the Issuers agree, jointly and severally, to promptly
 
reimburse the Initial Purchasers or such Initial Purchasers that have terminated this Agreement with respect to themselves, for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses (including the fees and expenses of their counsel) incurred by such Initial Purchasers in connection with this Agreement or the offering contemplated hereunder.
11. All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Initial Purchasers shall be given, c/o Banc of America Securities LLC (Facsimile: (212) 901-7897), Attention: Legal Department, with a copy to Cahill Gordon & Reindel , 80 Pine Street, New York, New York 10005 (Facsimile: (212) 269-5420), Attention: Daniel J. Zubkoff, Esq. Notices to the Company shall be given c/o the Company at 370 Woodcliff Drive, Suite 300, Fairport, New York 14450 (Facsimile: (585) 218-3904), Attention: General Counsel, with a copy to McDermott, Will & Emery LLP, 227 West Monroe Street, Chicago, Illinois 60606-5096 (Facsimile: (312) 984-7700), Attention: Bernard Kramer, Esq.
LLP
12. The Issuers hereby acknowledge that (a) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Issuers, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers and any affiliate through which any of them may be acting, on the other, (b) the Initial Purchasers are acting as principal and not as an agent or fiduciary of the Issuers and (c) the Issuers' engagement of the Initial Purchasers in connection with the offering and the process leading up to the offering is as independent contractors and not in any other capacity. Furthermore, the Issuers agree that they are solely responsible for making their own judgments in connection with the offering (irrespective of whether any of the Initial Purchasers has advised or is currently advising the Issuers on related or other matters). The Issuers agree that they will not claim that the Initial Purchasers have rendered advisory services of any nature or respect, or owe an agency, fiduciary or similar duty to the Issuers, in connection with such transaction or the process leading thereto.
13. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Initial Purchasers, the Company, the Guarantors and any controlling person referred to herein and their respective successors, heirs and legal representatives. Nothing expressed or mentioned in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any other person, firm or corporation any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision herein contained. No purchaser of Securities from the Initial Purchasers shall be deemed to be a successor by reason merely of such purchase.
14. This Agreement may be signed in counterparts, each of which shall be an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
15. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE CONFLICTS OF LAWS PROVISIONS THEREOF.
 
16. Each of the parties hereto irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any and all right to trial by jury in any legal proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding, please sign and return the enclosed duplicate hereof
 
SCHEDULE I
Initial Purchasers: Banc of America Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
 
EXHIBIT A
 
May 9, 2007
This Pricing Supplement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Preliminary Offering Memorandum.
The information in this Pricing Supplement supplements the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and supersedes the information in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum to the extent inconsistent with the information in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum.
The notes have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons except pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act. Accordingly, the notes are being offered and sold only (a) to "qualified institutional buyers" (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act) and (b) outside the United States to non-U.S. persons in compliance with Regulation S under the Securities Act. For details about eligible offers, deemed representations and agreements by investors and transfer restrictions, see "Notice to Investors" in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum.
 
 
ANNEX I
(i) The Company has been duly incorporated, is validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware. The Company has the corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and perform all of its obligations under the Notes, the Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Purchase Agreement (the "Transaction Documents") and the Exchange Notes and Private Exchange Notes (each as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement).
(ii) No consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any governmental authority or agency or, to our knowledge, any court or similar body is required under the laws of the United States, the State of New York and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware for the execution, delivery or performance of the Transaction Documents, the Exchange Notes or the Private Exchange Notes by the Company or any Guarantor, as the case may be, except such as may be required under state securities or blue sky laws in connection with the purchase and distribution of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers (as to which no opinion is required).
(iii) The execution, delivery and performance of the Transaction Documents, the Exchange Notes or the Private Exchange Notes by the Company and the application of the net proceeds from the sale of the Securities in the manner described in the Offering Memorandum under the caption "Use of Proceeds" do not (A) violate the charter and by-laws of the Company, (B) violate, constitute a breach of or a default by the Company or any Guarantor, as the case may be, under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, security interest or encumbrance upon any of the assets of the Company or any Guarantor, as the case may be, pursuant to the terms of any agreement or instrument listed on Exhibit I hereto, (C) contravene the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware or any statute, rule or regulation under the laws of the United States and the State of New York applicable to the Company or any of its properties which in such counsel's experience is normally applicable to transactions of the type contemplated by the Purchase Agreement or (D) to the knowledge of such counsel, violate any judgment, decree or order of any court or governmental agency or court or body applicable to the Company or any of its properties.
(iv) The Transaction Documents, the Exchange Notes and the Private Exchange Notes have been duly authorized by the Company. The Transaction Documents and the Guarantees have been duly executed and delivered by the Company and each of the Guarantors, as applicable. The sale and the issuance of the Notes, and the execution and delivery thereof, have been duly authorized by requisite corporate action of the Company. The Securities have been duly delivered to the Initial Purchasers by the Company and the Guarantors.
(v) The Indenture is a valid and binding agreement, enforceable against the Company and each Guarantor in accordance with its terms, except to the extent that enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws now or hereafter in effect relating to creditors' rights generally and general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity). When the Notes and the Guarantees have been authenticated in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Notes and the Guarantees will be valid and binding obligations of the Company and the Guarantors, respectively, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company and the Guarantors in accordance with their terms, except to the extent that enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws now or hereafter in effect relating to creditors' rights generally and general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity).
(vi) The Registration Rights Agreement is a valid and binding agreement, enforceable against the Company and each Guarantor in accordance with its terms, except to the extent that enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws now or hereafter in effect relating to creditors' rights generally and general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity).
(vii) The Securities and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the descriptions thereof under the caption "Description of the Notes" in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and Final Offering Memorandum. The statements made in the Final Offering Memorandum under the caption and "Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations," insofar as they describe certain matters of law, are accurate in all material respects. The Registration Rights Agreement conforms in all material respects to the description thereof in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Final Offering Memorandum under the caption "Exchange Offer; Registration Rights."
(viii) Based upon the representations and warranties made by the Issuers and the Initial Purchasers in the Agreement, the offer and sale of the securities by the Issuers and the initial resale of such Securities by the Initial Purchasers in accordance with Section 2 of the Agreement are exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, and prior to the commencement of the Exchange Offer (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement) or the effectiveness of a Shelf Registration Statement (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement) with respect to the Securities, the Indenture is not required to be qualified under the TIA, in each case assuming (i) that the purchasers who buy the Securities in the initial resales are qualified institutional buyers (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act) or non-U.S. Persons (as defined in Rule 902 under the Securities Act) and (ii) the accuracy of the Initial Purchasers' representations and agreements and those of the Company and the Guarantors contained in the Agreement regarding the absence of a general solicitation in
 
connection with the sale of the Securities to the Initial Purchasers and the initial resales thereof (it being understood that such counsel need express no opinion as to any subsequent resale of any Securities).
(ix) The Indenture conforms as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act and the Trust Indenture Act Rules and Regulations.
(x) Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary is required to register under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the ""), as an "investment company" as such term is defined in the 1940 Act.
1940 Act
(xi) Neither the issuance, sale or delivery of the Securities nor the application of the proceeds thereof by the Company as set forth in the Final Offering Memorandum will violate Regulations T, U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any other regulation of such Board of Governors.
Such opinion shall also contain a statement that such counsel has participated in conferences with officers and representatives of the Company and the Subsidiaries, and representatives of the independent accountants of the Company and the Initial Purchasers at which the contents of the Pricing Disclosure Package, the Final Offering Memorandum and the related matters were discussed and that although such counsel need not pass upon or assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Pricing Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum, and need not make any independent check or verification thereof, except as set forth in paragraph (vii) of this form of opinion, based upon the foregoing, no facts came to such counsel's attention to lead such counsel to believe that (x) the Pricing Disclosure Package (including the documents incorporated therein by reference (except to the extent statements contained in such documents had been modified or superseded by statements contained in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum at the Time of Execution)) as of the Time of Execution contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or (y) the Final Offering Memorandum (including the documents incorporated therein by reference (except to the extent statements contained in such documents have been modified or superseded by statements contained in the Final Offering Memorandum)), as of its date and as of the Closing Date, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. Such counsel need not express an opinion or belief as to the financial statements, the notes thereto, schedules and other financial data included therein, or incorporated by reference into, or excluded from the Pricing Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum.
In rendering such opinions, such counsel may rely as to matters of fact, to the extent such counsel deems proper, on certificates or statements of responsible officers of the Company and certificates or other written statements of officials of jurisdictions having custody of documents respecting corporate existence or good standing.
 
EXHIBIT I TO ANNEX I
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II
(i) Each of the Subsidiaries of the Company listed on attached hereto (the "") is a corporation duly incorporated, in each case, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its respective jurisdiction of incorporation. The Company and each of the Guarantors is duly qualified and in good standing as a foreign corporation in each jurisdiction listed for it on attached hereto. The Company and each Guarantor has all requisite corporate power to own, lease and license its respective properties and conduct its business as now being conducted and as described in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Final Offering Memorandum. All of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each Guarantor has been duly authorized and validly issued and is fully paid and non-assessable and was not issued in violation of any preemptive or similar rights of stockholders arising under the corporate law of the state of incorporation of such Guarantor, the charter or bylaws of such Guarantor, or, to the knowledge of such counsel, any agreement to which such Guarantor is party, and, to the knowledge of such counsel, is owned directly or indirectly by the Company, free and clear of any lien, adverse claim, security interest, restriction on transfer, shareholders' agreement, voting trust or other encumbrance except for the liens under or in connection with the Credit Agreement.
Exhibit I
Guarantors
Exhibit II
(ii) The Guarantors have the corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and perform all of their respective obligations under the Purchase Agreement, the Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Guarantees. The execution, delivery and performance of the Purchase Agreement, the Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Notes and the Guarantees by the Company or any Guarantor, does not (i) violate the charter or bylaws of any Guarantor, (ii) contravene the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware or any statute, rule or regulation under the laws of the State of New York applicable to the Guarantors or any of their respective properties which in the experience of such counsel is normally applicable to transactions of the type contemplated by the Purchase Agreement, (iii) violate, constitute a default by the Company or any Guarantor as the case may be, under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, security interest or encumbrance upon any of the assets of the Company or any Guarantor, as the case may be, pursuant to the terms of, the Credit Agreement or the indentures listed on Exhibit III hereto or (iv) to the knowledge of such counsel, violate any judgment, decree or order of any court or governmental agency or court or body applicable to any of the Guarantors or any of their respective properties.
(iii) The Purchase Agreement, the Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Guarantees have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by each Guarantor. The sale and issuance of the Guarantees and the execution and delivery thereof have been duly authorized by requisite corporate action of the Guarantors.
(iv) To the knowledge of such counsel, there is not pending or threatened any action, suit or proceeding to which the Company or any of the Guarantors is a party, or to which the property of the Company or any of the Guarantors is subject which is required to be disclosed in the documents incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Final Offering Memorandum which is not so disclosed in such documents.
(v) Each of the documents filed by the Company under the Exchange Act and incorporated by reference into the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Final Offering Memorandum (collectively, the ""), at the time it was filed with the Commission, appeared on its face to be appropriately responsive in all material respects to the requirements of the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations as promulgated by the Commission under the Exchange Act, except that such counsel need not express any opinion as to the financial statements, schedules, and other financial data included therein or incorporated by reference therein, or excluded therefrom or the exhibits thereto (except to the extent set forth in the next sentence of this paragraph) and such counsel need not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Documents. To such counsel's knowledge without having made any independent investigation and based upon representations of officers of the Company as to factual matters, there were no contracts or documents required to be filed as exhibits to such Documents on the date they were filed which were not so filed.
Documents
 
EXHIBIT I TO ANNEX II
 
EXHIBIT II TO ANNEX II
 
EXHIBIT III
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III
Barton Beers, Ltd. (the "") has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation and is in good standing under the laws of the State of Maryland.
Company
The Company has the corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Purchase Agreement, the Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Guarantee. The Purchase Agreement, the Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Guarantee have been duly authorized for execution and delivery by the Company. The sale and issuance by the Company of its Guarantee and the execution and delivery thereof has been duly authorized by requisite corporation action of the Company.
The execution, delivery, and performance by the Company of the Purchase Agreement, the Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Guarantee does not and will not (A) conflict with the Charter or By-Laws of the Company, (B) contravene any statute, rule or regulation of the State of Maryland applicable to the Company and its properties, or (C) to such counsel's knowledge, conflict with or violate any judgment, decree or order of any Maryland court or governmental agency or body applicable to the Company and its properties.
 
ANNEX IV
 

Exhibit 99.2
NEWS RELEASE
12
 
 Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR) today announced that it has completed the sale of $700 million aggregate principal amount of 7.25% Senior Notes due 2017 at par in a private placement transaction. The notes are senior obligations that rank equally with all of the company's other senior unsecured indebtedness. The notes are and will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the subsidiaries that are guarantors under Constellation Brands' senior credit facility.Constellation Brands is using the approximately $694 million in net proceeds (after deducting estimated selling and offering expenses) from the sale of the notes to reduce a corresponding amount of borrowings under the revolving portion of its senior credit facility.
FAIRPORT, N.Y., May 14, 2007
The notes have been offered and sold within the United States only to qualified institutional buyers in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and outside the United States in compliance with Regulation S under the Securities Act. The notes have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States except pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. This news release is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any of these securities.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this news release and other statements by Constellation Brands which are not historical facts and relate to future plans, events or performance are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of management and are subject to risks and uncertainties. A variety of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in such forward-looking statements, including the risk factors included in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


