FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20070502172220.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
At a meeting held on April 27, 2007, the Human Resources Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors (the Board) of Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company) took the following actions with regard to certain compensatory arrangements for certain of the Companys senior management personnel, including its executive officers.
 
Adoption of Amendment Number 3 to the Companys Annual Management Incentive Plan
 
On April 27, 2007, the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors approved Amendment Number 3 to the Companys Annual Management Incentive Plan (the Amendment). The Amendment is effective as of April 27, 2007, and is subject to shareholder approval. The Amendment modifies the Annual Management Incentive Plan (the Plan) as follows:
A copy of the Amendment as approved by the Committee is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Criteria for 2008 Fiscal Year Incentive Awards
Following approval of Amendment Number 3 to the Companys Annual Management Incentive Plan (as more fully described above), the Committee adopted the 2008 Fiscal Year Award Program for Executive Officers (the 2008 Program for Executive Officers), thereby establishing the performance criteria and the targets under the Annual Management Incentive Plan for the Companys fiscal year ending February 29, 2008. Pursuant to the 2008 Program for Executive Officers, incentive awards for the Companys 2008 fiscal year will be based on a percentage of base salary, depending upon the participants management position, and achieved performance during the plan year.
As only executive officers of the Company participate in the 2008 Program for Executive Officers, performance will be based solely upon achieved Company performance or a combination of achieved Company and division performance for the plan year, with potential
 
awards ranging from a minimum of 17.5% to a maximum of 240% of base salaries for executive officers.  Performance targets are based upon:
 
 
 
 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
This Amendment Number 3 to the Constellation Brands, Inc. Annual Management Incentive Plan (the 
Plan
) is adopted pursuant to Section 8 of the Plan by the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of Constellation Brands, Inc. (the 
Company
). Capitalized terms used herein which are not otherwise defined shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan and Annex A thereto. This amendment shall become effective as of the date set forth below and is subject to shareholder approval.
1.
  
   
The first sentence of the third paragraph of Section 3 is amended to replace the reference to $2 million with $5 million.
 
2.
  
   
The definition of 
Disability
 in Annex A to the Plan is replaced with the following:
 
Disability
 means, unless the Committee specifies otherwise in a Participants Award document, a termination of employment due to the inability of a Participant to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or which has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than six months, all as verified by a physician acceptable to, or selected by, the Committee.
 
3.
 
 The definition of 
   
Performance Criteria
 in Annex A to the Plan is amended by replacing the reference to and (m) market share in one or more business segments or product lines with (m) market share in one or more business segments or product lines, (n) earnings before interest and taxes, (o) units of specified products sold or depleted, (p) free cash flow, (q) sales growth, (r) capital expenditures, (s) working capital, (t) inventory, (u) cash flow from operations or (v) gross margin.
4.
  
   
The definition of 
Retirement
 in Annex A to the Plan is replaced with the following:
 
Retirement
 means a termination of employment by an employee who is at least 60 years of age and after at least 10 years of service with the Company. For an individual who becomes employed by the Company in connection with a business acquisition (regardless of the form of the transaction), service shall include the individuals service with the acquired business, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
 
In witness whereof, Constellation Brands, Inc. has caused this instrument to be executed as of April 27, 2007.
 


