FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20070104072112.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 2.02.      Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
          On January 4, 2007, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation, issued a press release (the "release") announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the third fiscal quarter ended as of November 30, 2006.  A copy of the release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.  The projections constituting the guidance included in the release involve risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at this time and, therefore, actual results may vary materially from these forecasts. In this regard, see the information included in the release under the caption "Forward-Looking Statements."
          The information in the release and in this Item 2.02 section is "furnished" and not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Such information may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references such information.
          The release contains non-GAAP financial measures; in the release these are referred to as "comparable", "organic" or "constant currency" measures.  For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrant's historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented.  In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
          Comparable measures and organic net sales measures are provided because management uses this information in evaluating the results of the continuing operations of the Company and/or in internal goal setting.  In addition, the Company believes this information provides investors a better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.  As such, the following items, when appropriate, are excluded from comparable results:  the flow through of adverse grape cost associated with an acquisition; the flow through of inventory step-up associated with acquisitions and investments in equity method investees; accelerated depreciation costs in connection with certain restructuring activities; the write-down of inventory in connection with certain restructuring and/or integration activities; acquisition-related integration costs; restructuring and related charges and other costs; the write-off of deferred financing fees; the loss on the sale of the Company's branded water business; the gain on change in fair value of derivative instrument entered into to hedge the U.S. dollar cost of a foreign currency denominated acquisition and related payment of certain outstanding indebtedness; foreign currency losses on foreign denominated intercompany loan balances associated with an acquisition; due diligence costs associated with the Company's evaluation of a potential offer for Allied Domecq; and the income tax adjustment in connection with the reversal of an income tax accrual related to the completion of various income tax examinations.  The Company acquired Vincor International Inc. ("Vincor") on June 5, 2006.  Organic net sales measures exclude the net sales of Vincor products during the indicated periods.
          Constant currency measures, which exclude the impact of year over year currency exchange rate fluctuations, are provided because management believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.
Item 7.01.     Regulation FD Disclosure
          On January 4, 2007, the Company issued a press release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
          References to the Company's website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Company disclaims any such incorporation by reference.  The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD.  This information is "furnished" and not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
35
            Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR), a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol, today reported record net sales of $1.5 billion for the quarter ended Nov. 30, 2006 ("third quarter 2007").  Net sales were up 18 percent over prior year, primarily due to the June 5, 2006, acquisition of Vincor International Inc. ("Vincor"), and from growth in the base business.  Branded business net sales grew 18 percent.  This increase was due to the addition of Vincor and four percent growth for branded business organic net sales on a constant currency basis.
FAIRPORT, N.Y., Jan. 4, 2007
          "Strong imported beer performance, growth from branded wine in North America, and the addition of Vincor generated solid results for the quarter," said Richard Sands, Constellation Brands chairman and chief executive officer.  "We continue to be very optimistic about our portfolio's long-term growth potential, although our third quarter results reflect ongoing softness in our U.K. branded wine business as very challenging market conditions persist."
(in millions, except per share data)
Third Quarter 2007 Financial Highlights*
(in millions)
Third Quarter 2007 Net Sales Highlights*
Net Sales Commentary
          Branded wine net sales growth reflects the addition of Vincor and a one percent decrease in branded wine organic net sales on a constant currency basis.  Organic growth of branded wine for North America was more than offset by a decrease in Europe.
          Net sales of branded wine for North America increased 29 percent due to the Vincor acquisition and four percent growth in the base business.  Branded wine net sales for Australia/New Zealand increased nine percent due to Vincor and a decrease of two percent in the base business.  Net sales of branded wine for Europe increased four percent (negative three percent on a constant currency basis) reflecting the addition of Vincor and a decrease of nine percent in the base business (negative 16 percent on a constant currency basis). 
          The decrease in Europe was primarily in the U.K., reflecting lower volumes and the impact of the large retailers benefiting from a highly competitive environment, particularly given the availability of low cost bulk Australian wine.  Additionally, competitive conditions have not allowed the annual U.K. duty increase to be passed on to retailers.  The company believes this situation is unlikely to change in the near term, and Constellation continues to focus on increasing its operating efficiencies in this intensely competitive market.
          There are signs that the industry could see a firming of the Australian bulk wine market.  In Australia, ongoing drought and late spring frost could reduce the wine grape harvest by approximately 15 to 25 percent in 2007 according to industry projections, versus the large 2006 harvest.  The effects of ongoing drought conditions may also impact the size of the 2008 harvest.  Significant reductions in the 2007 and 2008 harvests could impact the oversupply and may result in firming prices for Australian bulk wine.     
          Organic net sales for wholesale and other increased six percent on a constant currency basis, primarily from growth in the company's U.K. wholesale business.
          The 16 percent increase in imported beers net sales was primarily due to volume growth in Constellation's Mexican beer portfolio, which includes Corona Extra, Corona Light, Pacifico, Modelo Especial and Negra Modelo, as well as growth in the St. Pauli Girl brand.
          "Constellation's imported beer business delivered strong third quarter growth as consumers continued to trade up in the category, and both the bottle supply and inventory levels for Corona Extra and Corona Light improved during the quarter," stated Sands.  "Crown Imports LLC, the joint venture formed by Constellation Brands and Grupo Modelo to import and market beer in the United States and Guam, commenced operations on Jan. 2, 2007, and the transition to a single importer and marketer is progressing as planned."
          Total spirits net sales increased four percent for third quarter 2007.  Investments behind the company's premium spirits brands helped drive a six percent increase in branded spirits, while contract production services decreased seven percent.
          "We continue to build our premium spirits portfolio with focus on our investment brands including Effen Vodka, Cocktails by Jenn and Ridgemont Reserve 1792 bourbon, and priority growth brands such as Black Velvet Canadian whisky, Meukow cognac and Chi-Chi's prepared cocktails," said Sands.
Operating Income, Net Income, Diluted EPS Commentary
          For third quarter 2007, operating income increased primarily due to the acquisition of Vincor, as well as growth in the base business. The company incurred $4.4 million of stock-based compensation expense ("stock compensation expense") for third quarter 2007 related to the company's March 1, 2006, adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS 123(R)").  The recognition of stock compensation expense reduced operating income growth by approximately two percentage points.  For the quarter, the company also recorded approximately $1.0 million for its share of start-up and transition expenses related to building out the infrastructure in the eastern United States for Crown Imports LLC joint venture.
          Wines segment operating margin decreased 70 basis points.  This is primarily due to competitive U.K. market conditions that have made it difficult for the company to pass along the annual duty increase and the impact of lower U.K. sales on fixed cost absorption.  The impact of these factors was somewhat offset by synergies and mix benefit from the Vincor acquisition.  Beers and spirits segment operating margin declined 140 basis points for the quarter, primarily due to higher transportation costs for imported beers, increased material costs for spirits and higher spending behind premium spirits.
          Interest expense increased 52 percent to $73.1 million for third quarter 2007, primarily due to the financing of the Vincor acquisition and higher average interest rates.  The reported effective tax rate for third quarter 2007 was 37.7 percent compared with 39.4 percent for third quarter 2006.  The comparable basis effective tax rate was 36.1 percent for third quarter 2007 versus 39.3 percent for the prior year period.
Stock Repurchases
          During third quarter 2007, the company purchased approximately 652,000 shares of its class A common stock at an aggregate cost of $18 million, or at an average cost of $27.65 per share.  This completes purchases under the company's previously announced $100 million share repurchase program.
Summary
          "We continue to harvest opportunities from our existing portfolio, new product development, strategic partnerships and acquisitions," explained Sands.  "We are evaluating strategic options to address challenges in the U.K. market and strengthen our long-term position, while we maintain our focus on improving efficiency.  Our commitment to improving upon Constellation's leadership position in beverage alcohol and creating shareholder value, while increasing our return on invested capital, is unwavering.  Opportunities such as our acquisition of Vincor expand and complement Constellation's portfolio breadth and geographic and distribution scale, and we are pleased with the performance of the Vincor brands, as well as with the seamless integration of Vincor operations into Constellation's international footprint.   Additionally, we are encouraged and optimistic about the growth potential for our Crown Imports beer joint venture in fiscal 2008 and beyond.  We believe there continue to be opportunities to harvest additional long-term growth and value creation," concluded Sands.       
Outlook
          The table below sets forth management's current diluted earnings per share expectations for fiscal year 2007 compared to fiscal year 2006 actual results, both on a reported basis and a comparable basis.  For comparison purposes, the table also provides actual comparable basis diluted earnings per share, including pro forma stock compensation expense, as though the company had adopted SFAS 123(R) for fiscal year 2006.
          Primarily due to the increasingly competitive U.K. market conditions, the company has revised its fiscal 2007 comparable basis diluted EPS outlook to $1.65 to $1.70 from the company's previous estimate of $1.72 to $1.76.
          With respect to the table, reconciliations of reported information to comparable information and to comparable information, including pro forma stock compensation expense, are included in this news release.
Full-year fiscal 2007 guidance includes the following assumptions:
Conference Call
          A conference call to discuss third quarter 2007 results and outlook for fiscal 2007 will be hosted by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard Sands and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Tom Summer on Thursday, Jan. 4, 2007 at 10:00 a.m. (eastern).  The conference call can be accessed by dialing +973-935-8505 beginning 10 minutes prior to the start of the call.  A live listen-only webcast of the conference call, together with a copy of this news release (including the attachments) and other financial information that may be discussed in the call will be available on the Internet at Constellation's Web site: www.cbrands.com under "Investors," prior to the call.
Explanations
          Reported basis ("reported") operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share are as reported under generally accepted accounting principles.  Operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis ("comparable"), exclude acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual items.  The company's measure of segment profitability excludes acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual items, which is consistent with the measure used by management to evaluate results.
          The company discusses additional non-GAAP measures in this news release, including constant currency net sales, organic net sales, comparable basis EBIT, free cash flow and comparable basis diluted earnings per share, including pro forma stock compensation expense. 
          Tables reconciling non-GAAP measures, together with definitions of these measures and the reasons management uses these measures, are included in this news release.
About Constellation Brands
          Constellation Brands, Inc. is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol brands with a broad portfolio across the wine, spirits and imported beer categories.  Well-known brands in Constellation's portfolio include: Almaden, Arbor Mist, Vendange, Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Goundrey, Nobilo, Kim Crawford, Alice White, Ruffino, Kumala, Robert Mondavi Private Selection, Rex Goliath, Toasted Head, Blackstone, Ravenswood, Estancia, Franciscan Oakville Estate, Inniskillin, Jackson-Triggs, Simi, Robert Mondavi Winery, Stowells, Blackthorn, Black Velvet, Mr. Boston, Fleischmann's, Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy, Chi-Chi's, 99 Schnapps, Ridgemont Reserve 1792 and Effen Vodka.  Constellation Brands, through Crown Imports LLC, imports and markets Corona Extra, Corona Light, Pacifico, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, St. Pauli Girl and Tsingtao beers.  For additional information about Constellation Brands, as well as its product portfolio, visit the company's Web site at www.cbrands.com.
Forward Looking Statements
          The statements made under the heading Outlook, as well as all other statements set forth in this news release which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
          During the quarter, Constellation may reiterate the estimates set forth above under the heading Outlook and elsewhere in this news release (collectively, the "Projections").  Prior to the start of the company's quiet period, which will begin at the close of business on Feb. 14, 2007, the public can continue to rely on the Projections as still being Constellation's current expectations on the matters covered, unless Constellation publishes a notice stating otherwise. 
          Commencing at the close of business on Feb. 14, 2007, Constellation will observe a "quiet period" during which the Projections should not be considered to constitute the company's expectations.  During the quiet period, the Projections should be considered to be historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet period only and not subject to update by the company.
          The company's forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination, divestiture, restructuring or other strategic business realignments, or financing that may be completed after the date of this release.  Any projections of future results of operations, and in particular, (i) the company's estimated diluted earnings per share on a reported basis for fiscal 2007, and (ii) the company's estimated diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis for fiscal 2007 should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur.  In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the forward-looking statements of the company contained in this news release are also subject to the following risks and uncertainties: Constellation's ability to integrate Vincor's business successfully and realize expected synergies; the continued strength of Vincor's relationships with its employees, suppliers and customers; the accuracy of the bases for forecasts relating to Vincor's business; final management determinations and independent appraisals vary materially from current management estimates of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the Vincor acquisition; the company's restructuring and related charges, acquisition-related integration costs and purchase accounting adjustments associated with the Vincor integration plan (announced in July 2006) and the company's restructuring and related charges associated with the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan (announced in August 2006) and its global wine restructuring plan announced in February 2006 vary materially from management's current estimates of these charges, costs and adjustments due to variations in one or more of anticipated headcount reductions, contract terminations, or costs of implementation of these plans; the company achieving all of the expected cost savings from its Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan, from its Vincor integration plan and from its global wine restructuring plan due to, with respect to any or all of these plans, lower than anticipated reductions in headcount or other expenses, or a delay or greater than anticipated costs in their implementation; the company realizes lower than expected proceeds from sale of assets identified for sale under the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan and consequently incurs a greater than expected loss on the sale of such assets; the company achieving certain sales projections and meeting certain cost targets; wholesalers and retailers may give higher priority to products of the company's competitors; raw material supply, production or shipment difficulties could adversely affect the company's ability to supply its customers; increased competitive activities in the form of pricing, advertising and promotions could adversely impact consumer demand for the company's products and/or result in higher than expected selling, general and administrative expenses; a general decline in alcohol consumption; increases in excise and other taxes on beverage alcohol products; governmental bodies may increase tax rates; proportionately, the company's taxable income may be higher than expected in jurisdictions with higher tax rates; and changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.  In addition, on Jan. 2, 2007, the company formed a joint venture with Grupo Modelo for the purpose of importing and marketing Modelo's Mexican beer portfolio into the United States and Guam.  Risks and uncertainties associated with this joint venture include, among others, the joint venture's ability to operate the business successfully, the joint venture's ability to develop appropriate standards, controls, procedures and policies for the growth and management of the joint venture and the strength of the joint venture's relationships with its employees, suppliers and customers.
          For additional information about risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect the company's forward-looking statements, please refer to the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Feb. 28, 2006, which contain a discussion of additional factors that may affect Constellation's business.  The factors discussed in these reports could cause actual future performance to differ from current expectations.
(in millions)
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in millions, except per share data)
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(in millions)
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in millions)
Constellation Brands, Inc. and SubsidiariesSEGMENT INFORMATION
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
(in millions)
(in millions)
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATION OF REPORTED, ORGANIC AND CONSTANT CURRENCY NET SALES
As the Company acquired Vincor on June 5, 2006, organic net sales are defined by the Company for third quarter fiscal 2007 and nine months fiscal 2007 as reported net sales for the respective period less net sales of Vincor products during the period from September 1, 2006, through November 30, 2006, and June 5, 2006, through November 30, 2006, respectively.  Organic net sales and percentage increase (decrease) in constant currency net sales (which excludes the impact of year over year currency exchange rate fluctuations) are provided because management uses this information in monitoring and evaluating the underlying business trends of the continuing operations of the company.  In addition, the company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.
(in millions, except per share data)
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The company reports its financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP").  However, non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in the reconciliations below, are provided because management uses this information in evaluating the results of the continuing operations of the company and/or internal goal setting.  In addition, the company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.  See the tables below for supplemental financial data and corresponding reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures for the three months and nine months ended November 30, 2006, and November 30, 2005.  Non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, the company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Please refer to the company's Web site at http://www.cbrands.com/CBI/investors.htm for more detailed description and further discussion of these non-GAAP financial measures.
(in millions, except per share data)
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)
(in millions, except per share data)
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries GUIDANCE - DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE AND FREE CASH FLOW RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)
 
Free Cash Flow Guidance
Free cash flow, as defined in the reconciliation below, is considered a liquidity measure and is considered to provide useful information to investors about the amount of cash generated after capital expenditures and excess tax benefits, which can then be used, after required debt service and dividend payments, for other general corporate purposes.  A limitation of free cash flow is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period.  Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, cash flow from operating activities prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 


