FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20080701083827.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
On July 1, 2008, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company), a Delaware corporation, issued a news release (the release) announcing its financial condition and results of operations as of and for the first fiscal quarter ended May 31, 2008. A copy of the release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The projections constituting the guidance included in the release involve risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at this time and, therefore, actual results may vary materially from these forecasts. In this regard, see the information included in the release under the caption Forward-Looking Statements.
 
The information in the release is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Such information may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
The release contains non-GAAP financial measures; in the release these are referred to as comparable, organic or constant currency measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Comparable measures and organic net sales measures are provided because management uses this information in evaluating the results of the continuing operations of the Company and/or in internal goal setting. In addition, the Company believes this information provides investors a better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance. As such, the following items, when appropriate, are excluded from comparable results: the flow through of adverse grape cost associated with an acquisition; the flow through of inventory step-up associated with acquisitions and investments in equity method investees; accelerated depreciation costs in connection with certain restructuring activities; the write-down of inventory in connection with certain restructuring and/or integration activities; acquisition-related integration costs; restructuring and other costs; the loss on disposal in connection with the Companys contribution of its U.K. wholesale business to the Matthew Clark joint venture and the provision for income taxes in connection with the repatriation of proceeds associated with this transaction; and losses in connection with the disposal of a business and/or assets. The Company acquired the SVEDKA Vodka brand and related business on March 19, 2007 and acquired Beam Wine Estates, Inc. (BWE) on December 17, 2007. In addition, the Company formed the Matthew Clark joint venture effective April 17, 2007, and divested the Almaden and Inglenook branded wines effective February 28, 2008. Accordingly, during the indicated periods organic net sales measures exclude the net sales of SVEDKA Vodka, BWE products, the U.K. wholesale business, or Almaden and Inglenook branded wine, or include the net sales of U.K. branded wine, as appropriate.
Constant currency measures, which exclude the impact of year over year currency exchange rate fluctuations, are provided because management believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.
O
n July 1, 2008, Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference
.
References to Constellations website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference. The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD. This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

NEWS RELEASE
 
10
FAIRPORT, N.Y., July 1, 2008
- Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR), a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol, today reported diluted earnings per share (EPS) on a reported basis of $0.20 for the quarter ended May 31, 2008 (first quarter 2009), compared with $0.13 for the prior year first quarter. First quarter 2009 diluted EPS on a comparable basis, which excludes acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring charges and unusual items, totaled $0.34 versus $0.21 for the prior year.
 
Our first quarter results represent a solid start for the year and we are on track to achieve our fiscal 2009 strategic business objectives, stated Rob Sands, Constellation Brands president and chief executive officer. Efforts throughout fiscal 2008 set the stage for fiscal 2009, and milestones such as the recently announced sale of certain U.S. wine assets, underscore our focus on reducing borrowings, streamlining our portfolio and improving operational efficiency while enhancing our financial performance.
 
Sands also noted the companys first quarter results reflect strong comparable basis margin expansion as the company implemented price increases in domestic and international markets and benefitted from favorable product mix shift by adding the higher-margin Clos du Bois and Wild Horse wine brands, while disposing of the lower-margin Almaden and Inglenook wines. In addition, the overlap of the U.S. distributor wine inventory reduction initiative provided additional operating leverage.
 
First Quarter 2009 Net Sales Highlights*
(in millions)
 
 
First Quarter 2009 Profit Highlights*
(in millions, except per share data)
*
 
Definitions of reported, comparable, organic and constant currency, as well as reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures, are contained elsewhere in this news release.
** Hereafter referred to as equity earnings.
 
Net Sales Commentary
The reported consolidated net sales increase of three percent primarily reflects branded wine growth, including the net benefit of the Beam Wine Estates (BWE) acquisition and the sale of the Almaden and Inglenook brands, and favorable foreign currency, partially offset by the impact of reporting the Matthew Clark wholesale business joint venture under the equity method. Organic net sales increased 13 percent on a constant currency basis.
 
Branded wine organic net sales on a constant currency basis increased 15 percent. For North America, branded wine organic net sales on a constant currency basis increased 28 percent. The company overlapped its initiative to reduce distributor wine inventory levels in the U.S., which negatively impacted net sales in the first and second quarters of fiscal 2008. In addition, Canada delivered solid growth for first quarter 2009.
 
Our North America wine business turned in a strong performance. In the U.S., Robert Mondavi wines, Kim Crawford, Simi, Estancia and Franciscan all registered double-digit market growth for the first quarter, said Sands. In Canada, brands from our premium Canadian portfolio performed well, including Jackson-Triggs, Sawmill Creek and Naked Grape, with Kim Crawford and Robert Mondavi also posting solid results. Additionally, Clos du Bois and Wild Horse were fully assimilated into our portfolio and we anticipate future growth for both brands.
 
Branded wine organic net sales on a constant currency basis for Europe and Australia/New Zealand decreased six percent and three percent, respectively. Internationally, the company has implemented price increases that have impacted volume growth but have enhanced overall margins and profitability.
 
Total spirits net sales increased 9 percent for the quarter, primarily due to strong growth of the SVEDKA Vodka brand.
 
SVEDKA turned in another stellar quarter of growth, and other spirits brands including Black Velvet, Effen, Ridgemont Reserve 1792, Caravella and Meukow also performed very well, stated Sands. In particular, we are very pleased with the apparent impact from SVEDKAs Join the Party election year marketing campaign, which seems to be generating substantial incremental consumer excitement about the brand.
 
Operating Income, Net Income, Diluted EPS Commentary
 
Wines segment operating income increased $58 million versus the prior year quarter. This increase was primarily due to higher net sales in North America as the company overlapped its initiative to reduce distributor wine inventories in the U.S., contribution from the BWE brands, and profit improvement in the companys international business. Spirits segment operating income decreased $5 million primarily due to higher investment behind premium brands, a planned increase in marketing and promotional activities, and higher raw material costs.
Constellations equity earnings from its 50 percent interest in the Crown Imports joint venture totaled $70 million compared to $73 million in the prior year first quarter. For first quarter 2009, Crown Imports generated net sales of $673 million, an increase of two percent, and operating income of $139 million, a decrease of five percent. The decrease in operating income was driven by the year-over-year timing of marketing activities and a fixed contractual cost increase for product purchases from Grupo Modelo.
 
For first quarter 2009, pre-tax acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring charges and unusual items totaled $41 million compared to $14 million for the prior year quarter.
 
Interest expense increased nine percent to $87 million for first quarter 2009, primarily due to the financing of the BWE acquisition.
 
Summary
 
We remain confident about our ability to achieve Constellations EPS and free cash flow goals for the remainder of the fiscal year while improving return on invested capital, said Sands. Our ongoing efforts to effectively and efficiently adapt to the ever-changing market and economic dynamics in key markets around the world have better positioned us to deliver our long-term objectives.
 
Outlook
 
The table below sets forth managements current diluted earnings per share expectations for fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008 actual results, both on a reported basis and a comparable basis.
 
Full-year fiscal 2009 guidance includes the following current assumptions:
Conference Call
 
A conference call to discuss first quarter 2009 results and fiscal 2009 outlook will be hosted by President and Chief Executive Officer Rob Sands and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Bob Ryder on Tuesday, July 1, 2008 at 10:00 a.m. (eastern). The conference call can be accessed by dialing +973-935-8505 beginning 10 minutes prior to the start of the call. A live listen-only webcast of the conference call, together with a copy of this news release (including the attachments) and other financial information that may be discussed in the call will be available on the Internet at Constellations Web site: www.cbrands.com under Investors, prior to the call.
 
Explanations
 
Reported basis (reported) operating income, equity in earnings of equity method investees, net income and diluted earnings per share are as reported under generally accepted accounting principles. Operating income, equity in earnings of equity method investees, net income and diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis (comparable), exclude acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring charges and unusual items. The companys measure of segment profitability excludes acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring charges and unusual items, which is consistent with the measure used by management to evaluate results.
 
 
The company discusses additional non-GAAP measures in this news release, including constant currency net sales, organic net sales, comparable
basis EBIT and free cash flow.
 
Tables reconciling non-GAAP measures, together with definitions of these measures and the reasons management uses these measures, are included in this news release.
 
About Constellation Brands
Constellation Brands, Inc. is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol in the wine, spirits and imported beer categories, with significant market presence in the U.S., Canada, U.K., Australia and New Zealand. Based in Fairport, N.Y., the company has more than 250 brands, sales in about 150 countries and operates more than 60 facilities worldwide. It is also the largest wine producer in the world and an S&P 500 Index and Fortune 500 company. Major brands in the companys portfolio include Corona, Black Velvet, SVEDKA Vodka, Robert Mondavi, Clos du Bois, Ravenswood, Blackstone, Hardys, Banrock Station, Nobilo, Kim Crawford, Inniskillin, Jackson-Triggs and Arbor Mist. To learn more about the company and its products, visit Constellations Web site at
www.cbrands.com
.
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
The statements made under the heading Outlook, as well as all other statements set forth in this news release which are not historical facts regarding Constellations business strategy, future operations, financial position, estimated revenues, projected costs, prospects, plans and objectives of management, or information concerning expected actions of third parties, are forward-looking statements (collectively, the Projections) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the Projections.
 
During the current quarter, Constellation may reiterate the Projections. Prior to the start of the company's quiet period, which will begin at the close of business on August 22, 2008, the public can continue to rely on the Projections as still being Constellation's current expectations on the matters covered, unless Constellation publishes a notice stating otherwise. During Constellations quiet period the Projections should not be considered to constitute the company's expectations and should be considered historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet period only and not subject to update by the company.
 
The Projections are based on management's current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination, divestiture, restructuring or other strategic business realignments, or financing that may be completed after the date of this release. The Projections should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur.
 
In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the Projections of the company contained in this news release are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


