FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20081204093336.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
O
n December 2, 2008, Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, announcing that Constellation has closed out certain foreign currency hedges and from these actions expects to realize a net cash inflow. The news release also provided information about, among other things, the diluted earnings per share outlook regarding Constellations fiscal year ending February 28, 2009 and certain related assumptions. The projections constituting the guidance included in the news release involve risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at this time and, therefore, actual results may vary materially from these projections. In this regard, see the information included in the news release under the caption Forward-Looking Statements.
References to Constellations website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference. The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD. This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
18
FAIRPORT, N.Y., Dec. 2, 2008
 Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR), the worlds largest wine company and a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol, today reported that it has closed out certain foreign currency hedges to take advantage of the recent strength of the U.S. dollar, resulting in a net cash inflow. The net proceeds are expected to be used to reduce borrowings. As a result, the company is increasing its fiscal 2009 free cash flow guidance and lowering reported diluted EPS guidance.
 
As the company continues to refine certain of its international businesses, it has been reducing its foreign exchange exposure by adjusting the amount of corporate parent loans to its operating companies around the world, explained Bob Ryder, Constellation Brands chief financial officer. We have accelerated these activities primarily to take advantage of the recent change in foreign currency rates.
 
The company expects to realize approximately $50 million in after-tax cash proceeds from the settlement of the hedge transactions, which will increase the companys fiscal 2009 free cash flow guidance from $310-$340 million to $360-$390 million. The companys pre-tax income will not be impacted by these transactions, although the company will pay taxes on the hedge gains.
Consequently, the company expects to recognize a $0.20 diluted EPS impact for reported fiscal 2009 results. This impact will be excluded from the companys comparable basis fiscal 2009 diluted EPS.
 
Outlook
 
The table below sets forth managements current diluted earnings per share expectations for fiscal 2009 on a reported basis and a comparable basis.
 
The above guidance is based on information previously provided, taking into account the developments described above. In addition to the diluted EPS impact on the hedge transactions, the change in the companys fiscal 2009 reported basis diluted earnings per share guidance includes, and is limited to, the following:
 
Explanations
 
Reported basis diluted earnings per share are as reported under generally accepted accounting principles. Diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis (comparable), exclude restructuring charges, acquisition-related integration costs and unusual items. The companys measure of segment profitability excludes restructuring charges, acquisition-related integration costs and unusual items, which is consistent with the measure used by management to evaluate results.
 
The company also discusses additional non-GAAP measures in this news release, including free cash flow.
 
Tables reconciling non-GAAP measures, together with definitions of these measures and the reasons management uses these measures, are included in this news release.
 
- 2 -
About Constellation Brands
Constellation Brands, Inc. is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol in the wine, spirits and imported beer categories, with significant market presence in the U.S., Canada, U.K., Australia and New Zealand. Based in Fairport, N.Y., the company has more than 250 brands, sales in about 150 countries and operates approximately 50 facilities worldwide. It is also the largest wine producer in the world and an S&P 500 Index and Fortune 500 company. Major brands in the companys portfolio include Corona, Black Velvet, SVEDKA Vodka, Robert Mondavi, Clos du Bois, Ravenswood, Blackstone, Hardys, Banrock Station, Nobilo, Kim Crawford, Inniskillin, Jackson-Triggs and Arbor Mist. To learn more about the company and its products, visit Constellations Web site at
www.cbrands.com
.
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
 
The statements and estimates in this news release under the heading Outlook replace in their entirety the statements and estimates set forth under the heading Outlook in the companys news release dated Oct. 2, 2008.
 
The statements made under the heading Outlook, as well as all other statements set forth in this news release which are not historical facts regarding Constellation's business strategy, future operations, financial position, estimated revenues, projected costs, prospects, plans and objectives of management, or information concerning expected actions of third parties, are forward-looking statements (collectively, the "Projections") that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the Projections.
 
The Projections are as of Dec. 2, 2008, and to the best of the companys knowledge, timely and accurate when made. After Dec. 4, 2008, the Projections should be considered historical and not subject to update by the company to reflect subsequent developments.
 
The Projections are based on management's current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination, divestiture, restructuring or other strategic business realignments, or financing that may be completed after the date of this release. The Projections should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur.
 
In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the Projections of the company contained in this news release are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:
 
 
 
 
 
- 3 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 4 -
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
GUIDANCE - DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE AND FREE CASH FLOW
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(in millions, except per share data)
The company reports its financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP"). However, non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in the reconciliations below, are provided because management uses this information in evaluating the results of the continuing operations of the company and/or internal goal setting. In addition, the company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance. See the tables below for supplemental financial data and corresponding reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures for the year ending February 28, 2009. Non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, the company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Please refer to the company's Web site at http://www.cbrands.com/CBI/investors.htm for more detailed description and further discussion of the historical non-GAAP financial measures.
Free cash flow, as defined in the reconciliation below, is considered a liquidity measure and is considered to provide useful information to investors about the amount of cash generated, which can then be used, after required debt service and dividend payments, for other general corporate purposes. A limitation of free cash flow is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, cash flow from operating activities prepared in accordance with GAAP.
- 5 -


