FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20081002083114.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
On October 2, 2008, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company), a Delaware corporation, issued a news release (the release) announcing its financial condition and results of operations as of and for the second fiscal quarter ended August 31, 2008. A copy of the release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The projections constituting the guidance included in the release involve risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at this time and, therefore, actual results may vary materially from these forecasts. In this regard, see the information included in the release under the caption Forward-Looking Statements.
 
The information in the release is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Such information may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
The release contains non-GAAP financial measures; in the release these are referred to as comparable, organic or constant currency measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Comparable measures and organic net sales measures are provided because management uses this information in evaluating the results of the continuing operations of the Company and/or in internal goal setting. In addition, the Company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance. As such, the following items, when appropriate, are excluded from comparable results: the flow through of adverse grape cost associated with an acquisition; the flow through of inventory step-up associated with acquisitions and investments in equity method investees; accelerated depreciation in connection with certain restructuring activities; the write-down of inventory in connection with certain restructuring and/or integration activities; other costs incurred in connection with certain restructuring and/or integration activities; the loss on disposal in connection with the Companys contribution of its U.K. wholesale business to the Matthew Clark joint venture and the provision for income taxes in connection with the repatriation of proceeds associated with this transaction; losses in connection with the disposal of a business and/or assets; impairment of intangible assets; restructuring charges; acquisition-related integration costs; and impairment of an equity method investment. The Company acquired the SVEDKA Vodka brand and related business on March 19, 2007 and acquired Beam Wine Estates, Inc. (BWE) on December 17, 2007. In addition, the Company formed the Matthew Clark joint venture effective April 17, 2007, and divested the Almaden and Inglenook branded wines effective February 28, 2008 and certain Pacific Northwest wine brands on June 5, 2008. Accordingly, during the indicated periods, organic net sales measures exclude the net sales of SVEDKA Vodka, BWE products, the U.K. wholesale business, Almaden and Inglenook branded wine, or certain Pacific Northwest wine brands, or include the net sales of U.K. branded wine, as appropriate.
 
 
 
Constant currency measures, which exclude the impact of year over year currency exchange rate fluctuations, are provided because management believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.
O
n October 2, 2008, Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
References to Constellations website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference. The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD. This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

NEWS RELEASE
 
 
15
FAIRPORT, N.Y., Oct. 2, 2008
 Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR), a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol, today reported its fiscal 2009 second quarter results. The companys second quarter comparable net income and diluted EPS of $0.45 per share were in line with our expectations and represent positive momentum toward achieving our full-year goals, said Rob Sands, Constellation Brands president and chief executive officer. During the quarter, we generated strong free cash flow, reduced our debt, improved comparable margins and are well on our way to achieving our ROIC goals for the year. We are especially encouraged by the improved profitability from our North American wine and spirits businesses, and we are particularly gratified by our ongoing ability to rapidly delever.
 
On a reported basis, the company incurred a net loss of $23 million, or $0.11 diluted loss per share for the quarter ended Aug. 31, 2008 (second quarter 2009), compared with net income of $72 million or $0.33 diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the prior year. The net loss was driven by $129 million ($122 million after tax) of charges and inventory write-downs primarily associated with the previously announced business realignment activities related to the companys Australian operations.
Second quarter 2009 net income on a comparable basis, which excludes restructuring charges, acquisition-related integration costs and unusual items, totaled $99 million versus $77 million for the prior year, with $0.45 diluted EPS for the quarter versus $0.35 for the prior year.
 
Second Quarter 2009 Net Sales Highlights*
(in millions)
 
Second Quarter 2009 Profit Highlights*
(in millions, except per share data)
 
NM = not meaningful
 
Net Sales Commentary
 
The reported consolidated net sales increase of seven percent primarily reflects branded wine growth, which includes the benefit of the acquisition of the Clos du Bois and Wild Horse brands, partially offset by the sale of the Almaden, Inglenook and certain Pacific Northwest wine brands. Organic net sales increased six percent on a constant currency basis.
 
Branded wine organic net sales on a constant currency basis increased four percent. For North America, branded wine organic net sales on a constant currency basis increased seven percent primarily as a result of the companys fiscal 2008 initiative to reduce distributor wine inventory levels in the U.S., which negatively impacted net sales in the first and second quarters of fiscal 2008. In addition, Canada delivered solid growth for second quarter 2009.
 
- 2 -
In the U.S., our premium and above portfolio is performing well in the marketplace with brands such as Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi, Estancia, Toasted Head and Wild Horse, said Sands. In addition, our Jackson-Triggs, Inniskillin and Naked Grape brands continued to drive strong premium portfolio performance in Canada.
 
Branded wine organic net sales on a constant currency basis for Europe and Australia/New Zealand decreased three percent and one percent, respectively. Internationally, to improve margins and enhance ROIC, the company has implemented price increases and SKU reductions that have unfavorably impacted volume growth in the near term.
 
Total spirits net sales increased four percent for the quarter, led by double-digit gains for SVEDKA Vodka, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and Effen vodka.
 
SVEDKA continued its excellent growth trajectory during the second quarter, and spirits brands including Ridgemont Reserve 1792 bourbon, 99 Schnapps, Caravella aperitif and Meukow cognac also performed very well, stated Sands. In particular, we continue to see consumer and retail enthusiasm for SVEDKAs Join the Party election year marketing campaign, which is generating a considerable amount of excitement for the brand.
 
Operating Income, Net Income, Diluted EPS Commentary
 
Wines segment operating income increased $24 million versus the prior year quarter. This increase reflects higher net sales in North America as the company overlapped its initiative to reduce U.S. distributor inventories, and contribution from the Clos du Bois and Wild Horse brands, partially offset by the divestiture of Almaden, Inglenook and certain Pacific Northwest wine brands. The repositioning of the companys U.S. portfolio and resulting synergies has positively impacted profit margins.
 
Spirits segment operating income increased $2 million primarily due to higher net sales and lower operating costs.
 
- 3 -
Constellations equity earnings from its 50 percent interest in the Crown
Imports joint venture totaled $74 million compared to $79 million in the prior year second quarter. For second quarter 2009, Crown Imports generated net sales of $732 million, an increase of one percent, and operating income of $149 million, a decrease of five percent. The decrease in operating income was driven primarily by a fixed contractual cost increase for product purchases from Grupo Modelo and year-over-year timing of marketing activities.
 
For second quarter 2009, pre-tax restructuring charges, acquisition-related integration costs and unusual items totaled $129 million compared to $8 million for the prior year quarter.
 
Interest expense decreased seven percent to $81 million for second quarter 2009. On a year-to-date basis through August, the company has generated free cash flow of $125 million. Due primarily to the strong free cash flow and proceeds from asset sales during the first half of fiscal 2009, total borrowings have decreased by more than $400 million from fiscal year end 2008 levels, stated Bob Ryder, Constellation Brands chief financial officer.
 
Summary
 
We remain confident about Constellations ability to achieve targeted EPS and free cash flow goals for the remainder of the fiscal year while improving return on invested capital, said Sands. We continue to focus on efforts to improve our effectiveness and efficiency while adapting to ever-changing market and economic conditions in our key markets around the world.
 
Outlook
 
The table below sets forth managements current diluted earnings per share expectations for fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008 actual results, both on a reported basis and a comparable basis.
- 4 -
Full-year fiscal 2009 guidance includes the following current assumptions:
 
Conference Call
 
A conference call to discuss second quarter 2009 results and fiscal 2009 outlook will be hosted by President and Chief Executive Officer Rob Sands and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Bob Ryder on Thursday, Oct. 2, 2008 at 10:00 a.m. (eastern). The conference call can be accessed by dialing +973-935-8505 beginning 10 minutes prior to the start of the call. A live listen-only webcast of the conference call, together with a copy of this news release (including the attachments) and other financial information that may be discussed in the call will be available on the Internet at Constellations Web site: www.cbrands.com under Investors, prior to the call.
- 5 -
Explanations
 
Reported basis (reported) operating income, equity in earnings of equity method investees, net income and diluted earnings per share are as reported under generally accepted accounting principles. Operating income, equity in earnings of equity method investees, net income and diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis (comparable), exclude restructuring charges, acquisition-related integration costs and unusual items. The companys measure of segment profitability excludes restructuring charges, acquisition-related integration costs and unusual items, which is consistent with the measure used 
by management to evaluate results.
 
The company discusses additional non-GAAP measures in this news release, including constant currency net sales, organic net sales, comparable
basis EBIT and free cash flow.
 
Tables reconciling non-GAAP measures, together with definitions of these measures and the reasons management uses these measures, are included in this news release.
 
About Constellation Brands
Constellation Brands, Inc. is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol in the wine, spirits and imported beer categories, with significant market presence in the U.S., Canada, U.K., Australia and New Zealand. Based in Fairport, N.Y., the company has more than 250 brands, sales in about 150 countries and operates approximately 50 facilities worldwide. It is also the largest wine producer in the world and an S&P 500 Index and Fortune 500 company. Major brands in the companys portfolio include Corona, Black Velvet, SVEDKA Vodka, Robert Mondavi, Clos du Bois, Ravenswood, Blackstone, Hardys, Banrock Station, Nobilo, Kim Crawford, Inniskillin, Jackson-Triggs and Arbor Mist. To learn more about the company and its products, visit Constellations Web site at
www.cbrands.com
.
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
The statements made under the heading Outlook, as well as all other statements set forth in this news release which are not historical facts regarding Constellations business strategy, future operations, financial position, estimated revenues, projected costs, prospects, plans and objectives of management, or information concerning expected actions of third parties, are forward-looking statements (collectively, the Projections) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the Projections.
 
During the current quarter, Constellation may reiterate the Projections. Prior to the start of the company's quiet period, which will begin at the close of business on Nov., 21, 2008, the public can continue to rely on the Projections as still being Constellation's current expectations on the matters covered, unless Constellation publishes a notice stating otherwise. During Constellations quiet period the Projections should not be considered to constitute the company's expectations and should be considered historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet period only and not subject to update by the company.
- 6 -
The Projections are based on management's current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination, divestiture, restructuring or other strategic business realignments, or financing that may be completed after the date of this release. The Projections should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur.
 
In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the Projections of the company contained in this news release are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:
 
- 7 -
 
- 8 -
 
- 9 -
 
- 10 -
 
- 11 -
 
- 12 -
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF REPORTED, ORGANIC AND CONSTANT CURRENCY NET SALES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As the company formed its U.K. wholesale joint venture on April 17, 2007; acquired BWE on December 17, 2007; sold its Almaden and Inglenook wine brands on February 28, 2008; and sold certain Pacific Northwest wine brands on June 5, 2008, organic net sales for the respective periods are defined by the company as reported net sales plus/less net sales of U.K. wholesale, U.K. branded wine, Almaden and Inglenook branded wine, Pacific Northwest brands, or BWE products, as appropriate. As the company acquired Svedka on March 19, 2007, organic net sales for the six months ended August 31, 2008, have not been adjusted for net sales of Svedka products during the period March 1, 2008, through March 18, 2008, as amounts are not significant. Organic net sales and percentage increase (decrease) in constant currency net sales (which excludes the impact of year over year currency exchange rate fluctuations) are provided because management uses this information in monitoring and evaluating the underlying business trends of the continuing operations of the company. In addition, the company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.
 
 
- 13 -
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 15 -
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)
NOTES
 
 
 
 
 
 
DEFINITIONS
Australian Initiative
The company's plan announced in August 2008 to sell certain assets and implement operational changes designed to improve the efficiencies and returns associated with its Australian business.
 
Fiscal 2008 Plan
The company's plan announced in November 2007 to streamline certain of its international operations, primarily in Australia, and its plan announced in January 2008 to streamline certain of its operations in the U.S., primarily in connection with the restructuring and integration of the operations of BWE (collectively, the "Fiscal 2008 Plan").
 
Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan
The company's plan announced in August 2006 to invest in new distribution and bottling facilities in the U.K. and to streamline certain Australian wine operations (collectively, the "Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan").
 
Vincor Plan
The company's plan announced in July 2006 to restructure and integrate the operations of Vincor International Inc. (the "Vincor Plan").
 
Fiscal 2006 Plan
The company's worldwide wine reorganization plan announced in fiscal 2006, including its program to consolidate certain west coast production processes in the U.S. (collectively, the "Fiscal 2006 Plan").
 
- 16 -
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
 
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)
 
 
GUIDANCE - DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE AND FREE CASH FLOW
 
 
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Free Cash Flow Guidance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Free cash flow, as defined in the reconciliation below, is considered a liquidity measure and is considered to provide useful information to investors about the amount of cash generated, which can then be used, after required debt service and dividend payments, for other general corporate purposes. A limitation of free cash flow is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, cash flow from operating activities prepared in accordance with GAAP.
- 17 -
 


