FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20080229171520.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
O.
n February 28, 2008, Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, announcing the completion of Constellations previously announced sale of its Almaden and Inglenook brands and one winery to The Wine Group LLC
References to Constellations website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference.  The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD.  This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR), a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol, today completed the previously announced sale of the Almaden and Inglenook wine brands, and the Paul Masson winery located in Madera, Calif., to The Wine Group LLC for $134 million in cash.  P
FAIRPORT, N.Y., Feb. 28, 2008
roceeds from the transaction will be used to reduce Constellations borrowings.
About Constellation Brands
Constellation Brands, Inc. is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol in the wine, spirits and imported beer categories, with significant market presence in the
U.S.
,
Canada
,
U.K.
,
Australia
and
New Zealand
.  Based in
Fairport
,
N.Y.
, the company has more than 250 brands, sales in about 150 countries, operates nearly 60 facilities worldwide.  It is also the largest wine producer in the world and an S&P 500 Index and Fortune 500 company.  Major brands in the companys portfolio include
Corona
, Black Velvet, SVEDKA Vodka, Robert Mondavi, Clos du Bois, Ravenswood, Blackstone, Hardys, Banrock Station, Nobilo, Kim Crawford, Inniskillin, Jackson-Triggs and Arbor Mist.  To learn more about the company and its products visit Constellations Web site at
www.cbrands.com
.


