FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20080610145525.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
O
n June 10, 2008, Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, announcing Constellations sale of certain California and Pacific Northwest wine assets. The purchaser of these assets is Eight Estates Fine Wines, LLC (doing business as Ascentia Wine Estates). Included in the sale are assets for the following brands: Geyser Peak, Buena Vista, Gary Farrell, Atlas Peak and XYZin in California; Columbia Winery and Covey Run in Washington state; and Ste. Chapelle in Idaho. This sale transaction includes, among other things, certain trademarks, wineries, vineyards, inventory and tangible equipment and other assets used exclusively in the conduct of Constellations business associated with the foregoing brands. The news release also provided information about, among other things, the diluted earnings per share outlook regarding Constellations fiscal year ending February 28, 2009 and certain related assumptions
.
References to Constellations website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K, and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference. The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD. This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

NEWS RELEASE
 
 
08
Constellation Brands Sells Certain California and
Pacific Northwest Wine Assets for up to $234 Million
FAIRPORT, N.Y., June 10, 2008
- Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR), a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol, today announced it has sold certain U.S. wine assets to Eight Estates Fine Wines, LLC (doing business as Ascentia Wine Estates), a Sonoma, Calif., based private firm. Under terms of the agreement, Constellation received $209 million in cash, and could receive up to an additional $25 million in payments if certain objectives are achieved by the buyer. Constellation Brands will use the proceeds from the sale to reduce borrowings.
 
Included in the sale are assets for the following brands: Geyser Peak, Buena Vista, Gary Farrell, Atlas Peak and XYZin in California, which were acquired from Fortune Brands in December 2007; Columbia Winery and Covey Run (including Sunnyside winery) in Washington State; and Ste. Chapelle in Idaho, all acquired in 2001 from Corus Brands. Collectively, these brands represented approximately one million cases of wine sold in calendar 2007.
 
Sale of these assets will aid in streamlining Constellations U.S. wine portfolio by eliminating brand duplication and excess production capacity, said Rob Sands, Constellation Brands president and chief executive officer. We feel our customers and consumers are well served by our extensive California wine
portfolio and by the Hogue Cellars brand produced at its Prosser, Wash., winery. This transaction also provides cash to further reduce our borrowings and demonstrates our commitment to improve return on invested capital.
 
 
Ascentia
is a partnership including Jim Debonis, the former chief operating officer of Beam Wine Estates, W.J. Deutsch & Sons, one of the largest marketers of wine in the U.S., and GESD Capital Partners, a San Francisco-based private equity firm.
 
As a result of this transaction, the company expects to record a pretax loss of approximately $23 million or $0.08 diluted earnings per share on a reported basis, which will be excluded from the companys comparable basis earnings per share. The loss on the disposal is primarily driven by the write-off of goodwill as required by generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S.
 
The impact of this transaction is expected to be neutral to ongoing reported basis and comparable basis diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2009 as the interest savings is offset by the lost earnings from the brands. The proceeds from this transaction do not impact free cash flow, and therefore the companys free cash flow guidance for fiscal 2009 remains unchanged at $310 - $340 million.
 
Outlook
 
The table below sets forth managements current diluted earnings per share expectations for fiscal 2009 on a reported basis and a comparable basis.
The above guidance is based on information previously provided, taking into account the developments described above.
Full-year fiscal 2009 guidance includes the following current assumptions:
 
 
Explanations
 
Reported basis (reported) diluted earnings per share are as reported under generally accepted accounting principles. Diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis (comparable), excludes acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual items.
 
The company discusses additional non-GAAP measures in this news release, including free cash flow.
 
Tables reconciling non-GAAP measures, together with definitions of these measures and the reasons management uses these measures, are included in this news release.
 
About Constellation Brands
Constellation Brands, Inc. is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol in the wine, spirits and imported beer categories, with significant market presence in the U.S., Canada, U.K., Australia and New Zealand. Based in Fairport, N.Y., the company has more than 250 brands, sales in about 150 countries and operates approximately 60 facilities worldwide. It is also the largest wine producer in the world and an S&P 500 Index and Fortune 500 company. Major brands in the companys portfolio include Corona, Black Velvet, SVEDKA Vodka, Robert Mondavi, Clos du Bois, Ravenswood, Blackstone, Hardys, Banrock Station, Nobilo, Kim Crawford, Inniskillin, Jackson-Triggs and Arbor Mist. To learn more about the company and its products visit Constellations Web site at
www.cbrands.com
.
Forward-Looking Statements
The statements made under the heading Outlook, as well as all other statements set forth in this news release which are not historical facts regarding Constellations business strategy, future operations, financial position, estimated revenues, projected costs, prospects, plans and objectives of management, as well as information concerning expected actions of third parties, are forward-looking statements (collectively, the Projections) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the Projections.
 
The Projections represent the company's estimates only as of the date they are made, and should not be relied upon as representing the company's estimates as of any subsequent date.  While the company may elect to update Projections in the future, the company specifically disclaims any obligation to do so, even if its estimates change. 
 
The Projections are based on management's current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do
not take into account the impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination, divestiture, restructuring or other strategic business realignments, or financing that may be completed after the date of this release. The Projections should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur.
 
 
In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the Projections of the company contained in this news release are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


