FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20090409170147.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
(e)        Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Compensatory
 
At a held on April 6, 2009, the Human Resources Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors (the Board) of Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company) took the following actions with regard to certain compensatory arrangements for certain of the Companys senior management personnel, including its Executive Officers.
meeting
 Approval of Fiscal 2010 Base Salaries
The Committee set annual base salaries, for the fiscal year ending February 28, 2010 (Fiscal 2010), for the Companys Executive Officers.  The following table sets forth the annual base salary levels for Fiscal 2010 of those Executive Officers identified below:
 
Stock Option Awards
The Committee granted options to purchase shares of the Companys Class 1 Common Stock under the Companys Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan (the Stock Plan) to certain of the Companys management personnel, including its Executive Officers, subject to the Terms and Conditions Memorandum with respect to the Companys Amended and Restated Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan, the form of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.  The following table sets forth information regarding grants to those Executive Officers identified below:
 
 
______________________________
(1)  Each of the options granted has a 10-year term, subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain events related to termination of employment.  One-fourth of the options become exercisable on each of the following anniversary dates: April 6, 2010, April 6, 2011, April 6, 2012 and April 6, 2013 provided that the option holder remains employed on that date.  Under the terms of the Stock Plan, options become fully exercisable immediately in the event of a change in control.
(2)  The exercise price is equal to the closing price of the Class A Common Stock (into which, in certain limited circumstances, shares of Class 1 stock is convertible on a one-for-one basis) on the New York Stock Exchange on April 6, 2009.
Restricted Stock Awards
The Committee awarded shares of the Companys Class A Common Stock under the Stock Plan to certain of the Companys management personnel, including its Executive Officers, subject to the provisions of Restricted Stock Award Agreements, the form of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.  On April 6, 2009, which was the date of the restricted stock awards, the closing price of the Companys Class A Common Stock was $11.85 per share.  The following table sets forth information regarding awards to those Executive Officers identified below:
 
______________________________
(1)  Unvested shares under each of the awards are subject to forfeiture upon the occurrence of certain events related to termination of employment.  One-fourth of the awarded shares vest on each of the following dates: May 1, 2010, May 1, 2011, May 1, 2012 and May 1, 2013 provided that the recipient of the award remains employed on that date.  The awards can vest at an earlier date upon the death or Disability (as that term is defined in the Stock Plan) of the recipient of the award.  Under the terms of the Stock Plan, awards become fully vested in the event of a change in control.
Adoption of Amendment Number 1 to the Companys Annual Management Incentive Plan
On April 6, 2009, the Committee approved Amendment Number 1 to the Companys Annual Management Incentive Plan, as amended and restated July 26, 2007 (the Amendment).  The Amendment is effective as of April 6, 2009.  The Amendment modifies the Annual Management Incentive Plan (the Plan) as follows:
A copy of the Amendment as approved by the Committee is filed as Exhibit 99.3 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Criteria for 2010 Fiscal Year Incentive Award
The Committee adopted the 2010 Fiscal Year Award Program for Executive Officers (the 2010 Program for Executive Officers), thereby establishing the performance criteria and bonus opportunity under the Companys Annual Management Incentive Plan, as amended by the Amendment, (the Amended AMIP) for the Companys fiscal year ending February 28, 2010.  Pursuant to the 2010 Program for Executive Officers, potential incentive awards for the Companys 2010 fiscal year, if any, will equal 0.5% of the Companys Earnings Before Interest and Taxes for each of Richard Sands and Robert Sands and 0.25% of Earnings Before Interest and Taxes for each other executive officer, all as calculated under the Amended AMIP and the 2010 Program for Executive Officers and measured for the period from March 1, 2009 through February 28, 2010.  The Committee reserves the right to exercise its negative discretion at the end of the Companys Fiscal 2010 Year to reduce the amounts calculated in the preceding sentence to a bonus payment for each of our executive officers that it believes to be appropriate based on the Company's performance. 
Action with respect to Employment and Consulting Arrangements for Alexander L. Berk
On April 6, 2009, the Committee approved an agreement among Alexander L. Berk, the Company and Constellation Services LLC regarding Mr. Berk's retirement from the Company and its affiliates on May 31, 2009 (the Agreement).  The Company, Constellation Services LLC (successor
 
 
by merger to Barton Incorporated) and Mr. Berk executed the Agreement effective April 7, 2009.  The Agreement provides that (1) Mr. Berk shall receive a transaction bonus of $260,584 in connection with services he provided in connection with the recent sale of the Companys value spirits business (the Sale) and (2) in connection with and subject to Mr. Berks retirement on May 31, 2009, (a) Mr. Berk shall fully vest in all of his unvested options and his vested options may be exercised until the earlier of (i) February 28, 2011 or (ii) the expiration date of the option and (b) Mr. Berk shall receive the post-employment benefits as set forth in the Executive Employment Agreement dated May 21, 2008 among Mr. Berk, Constellation Brands, Inc. and Constellation Services LLC (successor by merger to Barton Incorporated) as clarified in the Agreement.
Also on April 6, 2009, the Committee approved a consultant agreement between Mr. Berk and the Company regarding consultation services to be provided by Mr. Berk for up to one year following his departure as an employee (the Consultant Agreement). The Company and Mr. Berk executed the Consultant Agreement effective April 7, 2009.  The Consultant Agreement is intended to secure Mr. Berks services to assist in transition matters associated with the Sale, as well as provide a mechanism to facilitate continuity with respect to the Companys involvement in Crown Imports, LLC, its joint venture with Grupo Modelo.  The Consultant Agreement is intended to provide Mr. Berk with compensation of $20,833.33 per month during the term of the agreement.
The descriptions above of the Agreement and the Consultant Agreement are a summary and are qualified in their entirety by the forms of agreement filed herewith as Exhibits 99.4 and 99.5, both of which Exhibits 99.4 and 99.5 are incorporated herein by reference.
 
On April 9, 2009, the Company issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.6 and is incorporated herein by reference, providing information regarding Alexander L. Berks role with the Company.
References to Constellations website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference.  The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.6 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD.  This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Constellation
 
 
The CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC. Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time (the Plan), enables Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company) to grant stock options to purchase Class 1 Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company (a Share or the Shares) to employees and non-employee directors of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (as defined in the Plan) (each, when granted a stock option, a Participant).  The stock options represented by this Memorandum and the accompanying award letter (respectively, the Options and the Memorandum and accompanying award letter, together, the Agreement) are subject to all of the terms and conditions contained in the Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
of Shares withheld in the case of this clause (c) exceed the applicable statutory minimum withholding rates.
 
Furthermore, the Participant agrees to pay the Company or the Employer any amount the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold, collect or pay as a result of the Participants participation in the Plan or that cannot be satisfied by deduction from the Participants wages or other cash compensation paid to the Participant by the Company or the Employer or sale of the shares acquired under the Plan. The Participant acknowledges that he or she may not participate in the Plan unless the tax withholding, payment and/or collection obligations of the Company or the Employer are satisfied.
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
BY MY ELECTRONIC ELECTION TO ACCEPT THE GRANT OF OPTIONS (WHICH SERVES AS MY ELECTRONIC SIGNATURE OF THE AGREEMENT), I AGREE THAT MY PARTICIPATION IN THE PLAN IS GOVERNED BY THE PROVISIONS OF THE PLAN AND THE AGREEMENT.
 
7
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
Name of Participant:
 
Date of Grant:
 
Number of Shares:
 
Value of Each Share on Date of Grant:
 
Initial Vesting Date:
 
This RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT (the Agreement) confirms the grant by Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company) of shares of restricted stock pursuant to the Companys Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time (the Plan).
PLEASE BE SURE TO READ ALL OF THE SPECIFIC TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE AGREEMENT.  FOR EXAMPLE, IMPORTANT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON VESTING AND FORFEITURE OF THE RESTRICTED STOCK COVERED BY THE AWARD IS CONTAINED IN SECTIONS 2 AND 4 OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS.  TO THE EXTENT ANY CAPITALIZED TERMS USED IN THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS ARE NOT DEFINED HEREIN, THEY WILL HAVE THE MEANING ASCRIBED TO THEM IN THE PLAN.
BY MY ELECTRONIC ELECTION TO ACCEPT THE GRANT OF RESTRICTED STOCK, (WHICH SERVES AS MY ELECTRONIC SIGNATURE OF THE AGREEMENT), I AGREE THAT MY PARTICIPATION IN THE PLAN IS GOVERNED BY THE PROVISIONS OF THE PLAN AND THE AGREEMENT (INCLUDING ITS TERMS AND CONDITIONS).
 
 
 
1.         .  The Company grants to the Participant named above (the Participant), subject to and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Agreement, the number of shares of the Companys Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share (Class A Stock), set forth above.  The grant of shares of Class A Stock to the Participant evidenced by the Agreement is an award of Restricted Stock and such shares of Restricted Stock are referred to herein as the Shares.  The Shares are granted as of the Date of Grant specified above (the Date of Grant).  Capitalized terms that are used in the Agreement but are not defined in the Agreement will have the meanings given to such terms in the Plan.
Grant of Shares
2. .
   
Vesting of Shares
   (a)         .  The Shares shall vest in accordance with the following vesting schedule:  25% of the Shares shall vest on the Initial Vesting Date specified above (the Initial Vesting Date); an additional 25% of the Shares shall vest on the first anniversary of the Initial Vesting Date; an additional 25% of the Shares shall vest on the second anniversary of the Initial Vesting Date; and the remaining balance of the Shares shall vest on the third anniversary of the Initial Vesting Date (the Final Vesting Date); provided, in each case, that the Participant remains in continuous employment with the Company or its Subsidiaries until such date.
Service
   (b)         .  If the Participant ceases to be employed by the Company or its Subsidiaries prior to the Final Vesting Date as a result of the Participants death or Disability, any Shares that have not vested prior to the date of the Participants death or Disability shall immediately vest.
Death or Disability
 
(c)           The Shares are subject to the provisions of the Plan pertaining to a Change in Control of the Company.
Change in Control.
   (d)           Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, an authorized leave of absence pursuant to a written agreement or other leave entitling the Participant to reemployment in a comparable position by law or Rule shall not constitute a termination of employment for purposes of the Plan unless the Participant does not return at or before the end of the authorized leave or within the period for which re-employment is guaranteed by law or Rule.
Leave of Absence.
3.         .  The Committee, in its absolute discretion, may accelerate the vesting of the balance, or some lesser portion of the balance, of the unvested Shares at any time.  If so accelerated, such Shares shall be considered as having vested as of the date specified by the Committee.
Committee Discretion
4.         .  Notwithstanding any default provision in the Plan to the contrary, if the Participant ceases to be employed by the Company or its Subsidiaries for any reason (including, but without limitation, Retirement) before the occurrence of a vesting event set forth in Section 2 above, any unvested Shares (and any dividends or other distributions related to such Shares) shall be forfeited to the Company.
Forfeiture
5.         .  The Shares (and any dividends or other distributions relating to the Shares) shall be held by the Company in a nominee account with the Companys transfer agent (or such other account as the Company shall determine) for the benefit of the Participant until (a) the Shares become vested in accordance with Section 2 above, and (b) the Participant has satisfied his or her obligation to remit withholding taxes under Section 8 with respect to the Shares that have become vested in accordance with Section 2 above (any Shares with respect to which both of these requirements are
Release of Shares
 
 
 
 
satisfied are referred to as Released Shares, and the date on which both of these requirements are satisfied with respect to Released Shares is referred to as the Release Date with respect to such Released Shares).  Promptly following the Release Date, but subject to the provisions of Section 9 below, the Company will (i) cause the Released Shares to be electronically transferred to an account in the Participants name at the provider administering the Plan as it relates to Restricted Stock (the Administrator) or to a book-entry account in the Participants name with the Companys transfer agent for the Class A Stock, and (ii) cause any dividends or other distributions relating to the Released Shares to be paid to the Participant or deposited to an account in the Participants name with the Administrator.  The Company reserves the right to transfer (or cause its transfer agent to transfer) to its treasury any Shares that are forfeited pursuant to the Agreement or the Plan and to recover and receive any dividends or other distributions relating to such forfeited Shares, in each case free of any claim or right of the Participant.
6.         .  The Participant shall have no right to sell, assign, transfer, pledge or otherwise encumber the Shares in any manner until the Shares have become Released Shares.  In the event that the Company permits the Participant to arrange for sales of Shares through the Administrator prior to the Release Date of the Shares (for the purpose of satisfying any payment requirement under Section 8 or otherwise), the Participant acknowledges and agrees that the Company may block any such sale and/or cancel any order to sell placed by the Participant, in each case if the Participant is not then permitted under the Companys insider trading policy to engage in transactions with respect to securities of the Company.  If the Committee determines that the ability of the Participant to sell or transfer Released Shares is restricted, then the Company may place a restrictive legend or stop transfer notation on any certificate that may be issued to represent such Released Shares or on its books with respect to such Released Shares.  If a legend or stop transfer notation is placed on any certificate or the Companys books with respect to the Participants Released Shares, the Participant may only sell such Released Shares in compliance with such legend or notation.
Transferability
7.         .  The Participant may elect, within 30 days of the Date of Grant and pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, to include in his or her gross income the fair market value of the Shares covered by the Agreement in the taxable year of grant.  The Participant will seek the advice of his or her own tax advisors as to the advisability of making such a Section 83(b) election, the potential consequences of making such an election and the requirements for making such an election.  The Company and its Subsidiaries and agents have not and are not providing any tax advice to the Participant. If the Participant makes this election, he or she shall promptly notify the Company by submitting to the Company a copy of the statement the Participant filed with the Internal Revenue Service to effect such election.
Section 83(b) Election
8.         .
Responsibility for Taxes and Withholding
(a)         Regardless of any action the Company or any of its Subsidiaries takes with respect to any or all income tax, social security, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to the Participants participation in the Plan and legally applicable to the Participant (Tax-Related Items), the Participant acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items is and remains the Participants responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.  The Participant further acknowledges that the Company and/or its Subsidiaries (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Shares, including, but not limited to, the grant, vesting or any Section 83(b) election, the subsequent sale of Shares and the receipt of any dividends and/or dividend equivalents; and (ii) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of any Award to reduce or eliminate Participants liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result.  Further, if the Participant becomes subject to tax in more than one jurisdiction between the date of grant and the date of any
 
 
 
 
relevant taxable event, the Participant acknowledges that Company and/or its Subsidiaries may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.
(b)         The Participant shall remit to the Company (or any of its Subsidiaries, as directed) the amount needed to satisfy any federal, state or local income taxes, social security taxes, or other employment withholding taxes that may arise or be applicable as the result of a Section 83(b) election, the vesting of the Shares or otherwise.  In the event the Participant fails to remit such cash payment to the Company, the Company may deduct any required withholdings from other cash compensation payable to the Participant or any cash dividends otherwise payable to the Participant pursuant to clause (ii) of Section 5 above or take such other actions it deems appropriate.  Further, the Company may withhold from proceeds of the Shares, otherwise to be delivered to the Participant following vesting in accordance with Section 2, either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arrangement (on Participants behalf pursuant to this authorization); provided that the withholding from proceeds will not exceed the amount necessary to satisfy the applicable statutory minimum withholding obligation.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, if the Participant has not made any payment required under this Section 8 within five (5) calendar days after notice by the Company of the amount due, the Company shall have the right to cancel the Award evidenced by the Agreement as it relates to all or any portion of the Shares that have not become Released Shares (whether or not such Shares have become vested in accordance with Section 2 above) by giving written notice of such cancellation to the Participant at any time after the end of such five (5)-calendar-day period but prior to the payment of the amount due.  In the event that the Award evidenced by the Agreement is cancelled with respect to any Shares pursuant to the preceding sentence, such Shares (and any dividends or other distributions related to such Shares) shall be forfeited to the Company.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, the Participant shall not be entitled to satisfy any withholding obligations that arise as a result of the Agreement by having Shares withheld by the Company or by delivering to the Company any shares of capital stock of the Company.
9.         .  The Company shall not be required to transfer or deliver any Released Shares or dividends or distributions relating to such Released Shares until it has been furnished with such opinions, representations or other documents as it may deem necessary or desirable, in its discretion, to insure compliance with any law or Rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other governmental authority having jurisdiction under the Plan or over the Company, the Participant, or the Shares or any interests therein.  The Award of Restricted Stock evidenced by the Agreement is also subject to the condition that, if at any time the Committee administering the Plan shall determine, in its discretion, that the listing, registration or qualification of the Shares (or any capital stock distributed with respect thereto) upon the New York Stock Exchange (or any other securities exchange or trading market) or under any state or Federal law or other applicable Rule, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body, is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of the Award of Restricted Stock evidenced by the Agreement or the issuance, transfer or delivery of the Shares (or the payment of any dividends or other distributions related to the Shares), the Company shall not be required to transfer or deliver any Released Shares or dividends or distributions relating to such Released Shares unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained to the complete satisfaction of the Committee and free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee.
General Restrictions on Transfer or Delivery of Shares
10.        .  Except for the dividend and distribution restrictions described below, and the transfer and other restrictions set forth elsewhere in the Agreement and in the Plan, the Participant, as the beneficial owner of the Shares, shall possess all the rights of a holder of the Companys Class A Stock, including voting, dividend and other distribution rights; provided, however, that prior to the Shares becoming Released Shares, the Shares, as well as any dividends or other distributions with respect to the Shares, shall be held in the manner described in Section 5 above.  Any dividends or other distributions with respect to the Shares in the form of capital stock shall be treated as Restricted Stock in
Rights as Shareholder
 
 
 
the same manner as the Shares.  If any Shares are forfeited to the Company, then any dividends or other distributions with respect to such forfeited Shares shall also be forfeited to the Company.
11.        .  The Participant acknowledges and agrees to the following:
Acknowledgments
(a)
 
Nothing in the Agreement or the Plan shall confer upon the Participant any right to continue to be employed by the Company or any Subsidiary or shall interfere with or restrict in any way the rights of the Company or the Subsidiary, which are hereby expressly reserved, to terminate the employment of the Participant under applicable law.
(b)
 
 
The transfer of the employment of the Participant between the Company and any one of its Subsidiaries (or between Subsidiaries) shall not be deemed a termination of service.
(c)
 
 
Nothing herein contained shall affect the Participants right to participate in and receive benefits under and in accordance with the then current provisions of any pension, insurance or other Participant welfare plan or program of the Company or any Subsidiary.
(d)
 
 
The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding the Participants participation in the Plan, or the Participants acquisition or sale of the Shares.  The Participant is hereby advised to consult with his or her own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding his or her participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan.
(e)
 
The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on participation in the Plan, and on any Shares under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or other applicable Rule or facilitate the administration of the Plan, and to require the Participants to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.
 
 
 12.        .  In the event that as a result of a stock dividend, stock split, reclassification, recapitalization, combination of Class A Common Shares or the adjustment in capital stock of the Company or otherwise, or as a result of a merger, consolidation, spin-off or other reorganization, the Companys Class A Common Stock, par value $.01, shall be increased, reduced or otherwise changed, the Shares shall be adjusted automatically consistent with such change to prevent substantial dilution or enlargement of the rights granted to, or available for, the Participant hereunder.
   
Changes in Stock
13.        .  All notices to the Company shall be in writing and sent to the Companys General Counsel at the Companys corporate headquarters.  Notices to the Participant shall be addressed to the Participant at the address as from time to time reflected in the Companys employment records as the Participants address.
Address for Notices
14.          Subject to the limitation on the transferability of the Award contained herein, the Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the heirs, legatees, legal representatives, successors and assigns of the parties hereto.
Binding Agreement.
15.        .  The Agreement is subject to all terms and provisions of the Plan.  In the event of a conflict between one or more provisions of the Agreement and one or more provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall govern.
Plan Governs
16.        .  The Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, United States of America, regardless of the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws.
Governing Law
 
 
 
 
17.        .  Captions provided herein are for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of the Agreement.
Captions
18.        .  In the event that any provision in the Agreement, shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of the Agreement.
Severability
19.        .  The Agreement constitutes the entire understanding of the parties on the subjects covered.  The Participant expressly warrants that he or she is not executing the Agreement in reliance on any promises, representations, or inducements other than those contained herein.  Modifications to the Agreement can be made only in an express written contract executed by a duly authorized officer of the Company.
Modifications to the Agreement
20.        .  By accepting this award, the Participant expressly warrants that he or she has received a right to an equity based award under the Plan, and has received, read, and understood a description of the Plan.  The Participant understands that the Plan is discretionary in nature and may be modified, suspended, or terminated by the Company at any time.
Amendment, Suspension or Termination of the Plan
21.        .  The Participant hereby consents and agrees to electronic delivery of any documents that the Company may elect to deliver (including, but not limited to, plan documents, prospectus and prospectus supplements, grant or award notifications and agreements, account statements, annual and quarterly reports, and all other forms of communications) in connection with this and any other Award made or offered under the Plan. The Participant understands that, unless revoked by the Participant by giving written notice to the Company pursuant to the Plan, this consent will be effective for the duration of the Agreement. The Participant also understands that he or she will have the right at any time to request that the Company deliver written copies of any and all materials referred to above. The Participant hereby consents to any and all procedures the Company has established or may establish for an electronic signature system for delivery and acceptance of any such documents that the Company may elect to deliver, and agree that his or her electronic signature is the same as, and will have the same force and effect as, his or her manual signature. The Participant consents and agrees that any such procedures and delivery may be affected by a third party engaged by the Company to provide administrative services related to the Plan.
Electronic Delivery and Execution
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.3

Exhibit 99.4 
AGREEMENT
This Agreement is made as of April  7, 2009 ( the Agreement), by and among (Executive), an individual residing in Glencoe, Illinois, (Constellation), a Delaware corporation with its headquarters located at 207 High Point Drive, Building 100, Victor, New York 14564, and (Services), a Delaware limited liability company having an office at 1 South Dearborn, Suite 1700, Chicago, Illinois 60603.
ALEXANDER L. BERK
CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC.
CONSTELLATION SERVICES LLC
Executive has been employed as President and Chief Executive Officer of Services, successor by merger to Barton Incorporated (Barton) and each of Services and Barton being or having been a wholly-owned subsidiary of Constellation, pursuant to the terms of an Executive Employment Agreement dated May 21, 2008 among Executive, Constellation and Barton (the Executive Agreement);
WHEREAS,
Constellation has recently completed the sale of certain entities and assets owned by Barton and its affiliates (the Barton Sale);
WHEREAS,
Executive and Constellation have mutually agreed that Executive shall continue to work as a full-time employee of Services up until May 31, 2009, whereupon Executive shall terminate employment as an employee with Services and its affiliates;
WHEREAS,
in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein, Constellation and Executive agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
1.
  
   
  In connection with the services Executive provided regarding the Barton Sale, Constellation or Services shall pay Executive a lump sum amount equal to $260,584.00 on or about April 15, 2009 or as soon as administratively practicable thereafter (the Transaction Bonus) assuming a successful close of the transaction.  The Transaction Bonus shall be included in the calculation of Executives Previous Bonus, as such term is defined under the Executive Agreement, for purposes calculating Executives post-termination rights under the Executive Agreement.
Transaction Bonus.
2.
  
   
In connection with and subject to Executives termination of employment as an employee on May 31, 2009, Executive shall fully vest in all of his unvested Constellation options and all of Executives vested options may be exercised until the earlier of: (i) February 28, 2011; or (ii) the expiration date of the option.
LTSIP Enhancements.  
3.             In connection with and subject to Executives termination of employment on May 31, 2009, Executive shall be entitled to the post-termination benefits as are set forth in the Executive Agreement; provided that such benefits shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Executive Agreement except only as expressly set forth herein.  For the purposes of calculating Executives post-termination rights under the Executive Agreement, the calculation of post-
  
Executive Agreement.
 
 
 
-2-
 
termination rights pursuant to Section 6(d) of the Executive Agreement shall be based upon the automobile allowance program in effect for executives of Constellation on May 31, 2009.
4.             This agreement may not be assigned or transferred by Executive.  This Agreement may be assigned or transferred by Constellation and Services.
  
Assignment.
5.             No amendment or modification of this Agreement shall be valid unless evidenced in a writing executed by the parties hereto.  No waiver by any party of a breach of this Agreement shall be binding except if in a writing signed by the party to be bound by the waiver.
  
Amendment, Waiver.
6.             This Agreement shall be governed by and construed under the laws of the State of New York without regard to principles of conflicts of law.
  
Governing Law.
7.             Executive agrees that he is subject to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York, and that any claim brought by either party alleging breach of this Agreement shall be brought in a state or federal court located in Monroe County, New York or Ontario County, New York.
  
Consent to Jurisdiction.
8.             This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which, when so executed, shall be deemed an original, and such counterparts together shall constitute one and the same document.  A faxed, executed counterpart shall be deemed an original.
  
Counterparts.
 
the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date set forth above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.5
This Consultant Agreement is made as of April 7, 2009 (Agreement), by and between (Consultant), an individual residing in Glencoe, Illinois, and (Constellation), a Delaware corporation with its headquarters located at 207 High Point Drive, Building 100, Victor, New York 14564.
ALEXANDER L. BERK
CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC.
Consultant has been employed as President and Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Services LLC (Services), successor by merger to Barton Incorporated (Barton) and each of Services and Barton being or having been a wholly-owned subsidiary of Constellation, pursuant to the terms of an Executive Employment Agreement dated May 21, 2008 among Consultant, Constellation and Barton (Executive Agreement);
WHEREAS,
Constellation has recently completed the sale of certain entities and assets owned by Barton and its affiliates;
WHEREAS,
Consultant and Constellation have mutually agreed that Consultants employment pursuant to the Executive Agreement shall terminate on May 31, 2009;
WHEREAS,
Constellation wishes to retain Consultant to provide certain, limited services following the termination of Consultants employment under the Executive Agreement, Consultant is willing to provide such services, and both parties desire to set forth the terms of such relationship in this Agreement.
WHEREAS,
 
in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein, Constellation and Consultant agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
 
1.
 
  
  At all times during and under this Agreement, Consultant shall be an independent contractor and shall not be deemed to be an employee of Constellation.  Nothing in this Agreement is intended, nor shall be construed, to create an employer-employee or agency relationship between the parties.  Consultant acknowledges and agrees that he shall have no right to participate in or receive any benefits under any compensation, retirement, welfare or other benefit plans or programs of Constellation as a result of or in connection with the services he is providing under this Agreement.
Relationship of Parties.
2.
 
  
  This Agreement shall commence on the first business day following the termination of Consultants employment under the Executive Agreement (Effective Date) and shall continue in effect for one year, unless terminated early as provided in paragraph 7.
Term.
- 2 - -
 
3.
 
  During the term of this Agreement, Consultant shall:
Consultants Services.
  
continue to serve as a Board member of Crown Imports LLC (Crown) and attend all Board meetings of Crown;
assist with the transition of his role as a Crown board member to an individual identified by Constellation;
act as a liaison between Constellation, and Crown and Grupo Modelo, S.A.B. de CV, as requested by Constellation;
attend as a representative of Constellation trade association meetings identified by Constellation; and
attend monthly Constellation Executive Management Committee meetings as requested.
The parties do not expect that the foregoing services shall entail more than eight hours per week on average.
4.
 
  
  As compensation for Consultants services under this Agreement, Constellation shall pay Consultant $20,833.33 per month.  Payment to Consultant for the first six months of services (or such lesser period if the Agreement is terminated before six months after the Effective Date) shall be made on, or as soon as administratively practicable after, the first business day of the seventh month following the Effective Date.  Payment to Consultant for the remaining term of the Agreement shall be made monthly, in arrears, in the amount of $20,833.33 on, or as soon as administratively practicable after, the first business day of the following month.  Constellation shall also reimburse Consultant for reasonable, documented expenses incurred by Consultant as a consequence of performing Consultants services.
Compensation.
5.
 
  
  Consultant is entitled to enter into agreements to provide services to other entities provided, however, that such activities do not conflict with Consultants responsibilities and obligations under this Agreement or the Executive Agreement, and provided further that Consultant seeks and obtains advance, written consent from Constellation before providing services to a competitor of Constellation.
Other Services.
6.
 
  
  Constellation shall not withhold or deduct from Consultants compensation any amounts for income tax, or social security or Medicare.  It is Consultants sole responsibility as an independent contractor to report and pay all applicable taxes on compensation paid to Consultant by Constellation under this Agreement.  Consultant agrees to indemnify Constellation and to hold it harmless from
Taxes.
 
- 3 - -
 
and against any liability, including interest and penalties, sought by any taxing authority, based on compensation paid to Consultant under this Agreement.
7.
 
  
  This Agreement shall terminate immediately upon the occurrence of any of the following events:
Termination.
the death of Consultant;
the mutual agreement of Consultant and Constellation;
at the election of Constellation, if Consultant is unable to perform services hereunder;
at the election of Constellation, in its sole discretion and for any reason, to terminate this Agreement;
at the election of Constellation, if Consultant breaches this Agreement or the Executive Agreement;
at the election of Constellation, if Consultant engages in conduct which would justify a for cause termination, as defined in the Executive Agreement; and
at the election of Consultant, if Constellation breaches this Agreement or the Executive Agreement.
Upon termination of this Agreement, Constellation shall have no further obligations to Consultant under this Agreement, except to pay Consultant for services performed and reimbursable expenses incurred hereunder through the date of termination.
    Consultant agrees that unless duly authorized in writing by Constellation, he will neither during the term of this Agreement nor at any time thereafter divulge or use other than in furtherance of his services under this Agreement any trade secrets or confidential information first acquired by him during and by virtue of his services under this Agreement or his prior employment with Barton, Services or their affiliates.
8.
   
   
Trade Secrets; Confidential Information; Insider Trading.
Consultant hereby acknowledges that he is aware that the United States securities laws prohibit any person who has material, non-public information about a company from purchasing or selling securities of such a company on the basis of such information or from communicating such information to any other person under circumstances in which it is reasonably foreseeable that such person is likely to purchase or sell such securities on the basis of such information.
 
- 4 - -
 
             Nothing in this Agreement is intended, or should be construed, to impair or alter in any respect the terms of the Executive Agreement.
9.
Non-impairment.
  This agreement may not be assigned or transferred by Consultant.  This Agreement may be assigned or transferred by Constellation.
10.
  
Assignment.
           No amendment or modification of this Agreement shall be valid unless evidenced in a writing executed by the parties hereto.  No waiver by any party of a breach of this Agreement shall be binding except if in a writing signed by the party to be bound by the waiver.
11.
Amendment, Waiver.
           This Agreement shall be governed by and construed under the laws of the State of New York without regard to principles of conflicts of law.
12.
Governing Law.
           Consultant agrees that he is subject to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York, and that any claim brought by either party alleging breach of this Agreement shall be brought in a state or federal court located in Monroe County, New York or Ontario County, New York.
13.
Consent to Jurisdiction.
           This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which, when so executed, shall be deemed an original, and such counterparts together shall constitute one and the same document.  A faxed, executed counterpart shall be deemed an original.
14.
Counterparts.
 
the parties have executed this Consultant Agreement as of the date set forth above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,

Exhibit 99.6
[LOGO] Constellation
NEWS RELEASE
05
 
 
CONSTELLATION BRANDS SENIOR EXECUTIVE TO RETIRE
 Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR), the largest wine company in the world, announced today that Andy Berk, a member of Constellation Brands Executive Management Committee and president and chief executive officer of Constellation Services will retire effective May 31, 2009.  As part of the transition, Berk will stay on as a consultant for one year, and will continue to serve on Crown Imports board of directors and to participate in Constellations Executive Management Committee.  Subsequent to Berks retirement, the Constellation Services management team will report to the appropriate functional executive at Constellation Brands.
VICTOR, N.Y., April 9, 2009
Andy and his teams at Barton and Constellation Beers and Spirits have played an integral role in transforming Constellation Brands into a global leader in the beverage alcohol industry, said Rob Sands, president and CEO, Constellation Brands.  His expertise and leadership have been vital to the growth of our company and helped set Constellation on a path for continued success.
Berk joined Barton Incorporated in 1990 as president and chief operating officer, and continued in that role after Barton merged with Constellation Brands in 1993.  He was named president and CEO of Barton Incorporated in 1998 and appointed CEO of Constellation Beers and Spirits in 2003.  In addition to his work with Constellation, Berk has been active in various industry trade associations, including an almost three-year stint as chairman of Distilled Spirits Council of the United States and managing director of The Century Council.
About Constellation Brands
Constellation Brands, Inc. is the largest wine company in the world with a strong portfolio of consumer-preferred premium wine brands complemented by spirits, imported beer and other select beverage alcohol products. The company has significant market presence in the U.S., Canada, U.K., Australia and New Zealand.  Based in Victor, N.Y., the company has more than 200 brands in its portfolio, sales in about 150 countries and operates approximately 50 facilities.  It is the largest premium wine company in the U.S.; the largest wine company in the U.K., Australia and Canada; the second largest wine company in New Zealand; and the largest beer importer and marketer in the U.S. through its Crown Imports joint venture with Mexicos Grupo
 
 
Modelo.  Constellation Brands is a S&P 500 Index and Fortune 500 company.  Major brands in the companys portfolio include Robert Mondavi wines, Hardys, Clos du Bois, Blackstone, Banrock Station, Arbor Mist, Estancia, Ravenswood, Jackson-Triggs, Kim Crawford, Corona Extra, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and SVEDKA Vodka. To learn more about Constellation Brands and its product portfolio visit the companys Web site at www.cbrands.com.


