FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20090701084117.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
    CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC.    
Registrants telephone number, including area code    
(585) 678-7100
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
On July 1, 2009, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company), a Delaware corporation, issued a news release (the release) announcing its financial condition and results of operations as of and for the first fiscal quarter ended May 31, 2009.  A copy of the release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.  The projections constituting the guidance included in the release involve risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at this time and, therefore, actual results may vary materially from these forecasts.  In this regard, see the information included in the release under the caption Forward-Looking Statements.
The information in the release is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Such information may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
The release contains non-GAAP financial measures; in the release these are referred to as comparable, organic or constant currency measures.  For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented.  In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Comparable measures, organic net sales measures and constant currency measures are provided because management uses this information in monitoring and evaluating the results and underlying business trends of the continuing operations of the Company and/or in internal goal setting.  In addition, the Company believes this information provides investors a better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.  As such, the following items, including the related income tax effect, are excluded from comparable results, when appropriate:  the flow through of adverse grape cost associated with an acquisition; the flow through of inventory step-up associated with acquisitions; accelerated depreciation in connection with certain restructuring activities; the write-down of inventory in connection with certain restructuring and/or integration activities; other costs incurred in connection with certain restructuring and/or integration activities; losses in connection with the disposal of a business and/or assets, including assets held for sale; restructuring charges; and acquisition-related integration costs.  The Company divested certain Pacific Northwest wine brands on June 5, 2008; exited certain spirits production contracts in connection with the sale of a Canadian distilling facility on August 31, 2008; and sold certain value spirits brands on March 24, 2009.  Accordingly, during the indicated period, organic net sales measures exclude the net sales of certain Pacific Northwest wine brands, certain spirits production contracts, and/or certain value spirits brands, as appropriate.  Constant currency measures exclude the impact of year over year currency exchange rate fluctuations.
On July 1, 2009, Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
References to Constellations website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference.  The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD.  This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
  
NEWS RELEASE
07
 Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR), the worlds leading wine company, reported today its fiscal 2010 first quarter results. "We are generally pleased with our quarterly results, which were in-line with our expectations," said Rob Sands, president and chief executive officer of Constellation Brands. "To strengthen our position as an industry leader, especially in this challenging economy, we took steps over the past 18 months to
VICTOR, N.Y., July 1, 2009
 
shift the focus of our strategy to building must-have brands that return the greatest profits and that represent good value for consumers. We are already seeing the benefits from this strategy as brands such as Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi, Nobilo, Clos du Bois, Kim Crawford and SVEDKA continue to perform well. During the quarter, we also made progress on our global cost reduction initiative which was implemented to mitigate the negative impacts of the turbulent global economy and to create efficiencies to drive long-term sustainable growth."
 
 
*Definitions of reported, comparable, organic and constant currency, as well as reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures, are contained elsewhere in this news release.
** Hereafter referred to as equity earnings.
NM=Not meaningful
 
Net Sales Commentary
 
Reported consolidated net sales decreased 15 percent due primarily to the impact of year-over-year currency exchange rate fluctuations and the divestitures of the value spirits business, spirits contract production services and certain Pacific Northwest wine brands. Organic net sales increased one percent on a constant currency basis.
 
Branded wine organic net sales on a constant currency basis increased one percent, which includes a one percent decrease for North America, a six percent increase for Europe, and a seven percent increase for Australia/New Zealand. Key markets are being impacted by planned SKU reductions and continuing economic pressures are driving unfavorable sales mix. However, SG&A reduction efforts are having the expected benefit of offsetting reduced gross profit margins. Net sales for Europe benefited from timing impacts related to the U.K. duty increase.
 
During the quarter we integrated the remaining spirits business into our
North American wine organization and began refining the structure of our U.S. wine business into a single integrated group with the goal of better serving our trade customers and ultimately consumers, Sands said. This structure, combined with an unparalleled premium portfolio that includes well-known and admired brands such as Robert Mondavi, Wild Horse, Ravenswood, Estancia and Blackstone, provides us with outstanding opportunities to capture growth in the marketplace.
 
Total spirits organic net sales increased 13 percent for the quarter, led by a 33 percent gain for SVEDKA Vodka.  The integration of our premium spirits brands into the North American organization went well, Sands continued. SVEDKA continues to enjoy tremendous momentum and now ranks as the third largest import and fifth largest vodka brand overall in the U.S. The futuristic marketing campaign featuring the iconic fembot resonates well with consumers and we are seeing continuing strong growth particularly in national chains, control states and on-premise.
 
Operating Income, Net Income, Diluted EPS Commentary
 
Wines segment operating income decreased $8 million versus the prior quarter.  This decrease is primarily due to the divestiture of the value spirits business and certain Pacific Northwest wine brands, negative mix and a decrease in international business performance partially offset by savings from cost reduction initiatives and gains from foreign currency transactions.
 
Constellations equity earnings from its 50 percent interest in the Crown
Imports joint venture totaled $63 million, a decrease of 10 percent from the prior year first quarter.  For first quarter 2010, Crown Imports generated net sales of $636 million, a decrease of five percent, and operating income of $126 million, a decrease of nine percent.
 
While the on-premise and convenience channels remain difficult, Crown is seeing some improvement at national chains in the grocery channel as it focuses on optimizing promotional activity through targeted marketing and programming support, said Sands. In particular, Corona Extra is ramping up its marketing efforts for the peak summer sales season by reprising some of its
most iconic television spots and focusing its overall media investment into and through these key periods.
 
 
For first quarter 2010, pre-tax restructuring charges, acquisition-related
integration costs and unusual items totaled $40 million compared to $41million
for the prior year first quarter.
 
Interest expense totaled $67 million, a decrease of 23 percent. The decrease was primarily due to a lower average debt balance.
 
The improvement in interest expense reflects the significant debt pay down in fiscal 2009 and additional debt reduction during the first quarter as proceeds from the sale of the value spirits business in March 2009 contributed to our on-going deleveraging efforts, said Bob Ryder, Constellation Brands chief financial officer.
 
Summary
 
The macroeconomic environment remains challenging but we continue to focus on the right strategies to generate cash, reduce borrowings, increase return on invested capital, and improve the bottom line. We are striving to better align our businesses in the U.K. and Australia to provide opportunity for increased efficiencies and cost savings, which are among our top priorities during these tumultuous times, Sands concluded. Through prudent, targeted actions, coupled with some of the strongest brands in the industry, we believe we are well-positioned to benefit from the upturn in the economy when it occurs. Finally, I would like to thank our Constellation colleagues around the world for their hard work and dedication as we focus on achieving our goals for fiscal 2010.
Outlook
 
The table below sets forth managements current diluted EPS expectations for fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009 actual results, both on a reported basis and a comparable basis.
Full-year fiscal 2010 guidance includes the following current assumptions:
 
Conference Call
 
A conference call to discuss first quarter fiscal 2010 results and outlook for fiscal 2010 will be hosted by President and Chief Executive Officer Rob Sands and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Bob Ryder on Wednesday, July 1, 2009 at 10:30 a.m. (eastern).  The conference call can be accessed by dialing +973-935-8505 beginning 10 minutes prior to the start of the call.  A live listen-only webcast of the conference call, together with a copy of this news release (including the attachments) and other financial information that may be discussed in the call will be available on the Internet at Constellations Web site: www.cbrands.com under Investors, prior to the call.
 
Explanations
 
Reported basis (reported) operating income, net income and diluted EPS are as reported under generally accepted accounting principles.  Operating income, net income and diluted EPS on a comparable basis (comparable), exclude restructuring charges, acquisition-related integration costs and unusual items.  The companys measure of segment profitability excludes restructuring charges, acquisition-related integration costs and unusual items, which is consistent with the measure used by management to evaluate results.
 
 
The company discusses additional non-GAAP measures in this news release, including constant currency net sales, organic net sales, comparable basis EBIT and free cash flow.
 
Tables reconciling non-GAAP measures, together with definitions of these measures and the reasons management uses these measures, are included in
this news release.
About Constellation Brands
Constellation Brands is the worlds leading wine company, with a broad portfolio of widely admired premium brands across the wine, beer and spirits categories. Our company achieves success through an unmatched knowledge of wine consumers paired with storied brands that suit their varied lives and tastes. Our portfolio of brands include Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Clos du Bois, Blackstone, Banrock Station, Arbor Mist, Estancia, Ravenswood, Jackson-Triggs, Kim Crawford, Corona Extra, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and SVEDKA Vodka.
Constellation Brands (NYSE: STZ and STZ.B; ASX: CBR) is an S&P 500 Index and Fortune 1000 company with more than 100 total brands in our portfolio, sales in about 150 countries and operations in approximately 50 facilities. The company believes that industry leadership involves a commitment to our brands, to the trade, to the land, to investors and to the different people around the world who turn to our products when celebrating big moments or enjoying quiet ones. We express this commitment through our vision: to elevate life with every glass raised. To learn more about Constellation Brands and its product portfolio visit the company's web site at .
www.cbrands.com
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The statements made under the heading Outlook, and all statements other than statements of historical facts set forth in this news release regarding Constellations business strategy, future operations, financial position, estimated revenues, projected costs, prospects, plans and objectives of management, as well as information concerning expected actions of third parties, are forward-looking statements (collectively, the Projections) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the Projections.
 
During the current quarter, Constellation may reiterate the Projections.  Prior to the start of the company's quiet period, which will begin at the close of business on Aug. 24, 2009, the public can continue to rely on the Projections as still being Constellation's current expectations on the matters covered, unless Constellation publishes a notice stating otherwise.  During Constellations quiet period, the Projections should not be considered to constitute the companys expectations and should be considered historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet period only and not subject to update by the company.
 
The Projections are based on management's current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination, divestiture, restructuring or other strategic business realignments, or financing that may be completed after the date of this release. The Projections should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur.
 
In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the Projections of the company contained in this news release are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:
 
-more- -more-
 
-8-
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in millions)
 
 
-more-
 
 
-9
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
-more-
 
 
-10-
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in millions)
 
 
-more-
 
 
-11-
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
SEGMENT INFORMATION
(in millions)
 
 
NM = Not Meaningful
 
 
 
-12-
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
(in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-more-
 
 
-13-
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATION OF REPORTED, ORGANIC AND CONSTANT CURRENCY NET SALES
(in millions)
 
As the company sold certain Pacific Northwest wine brands on June 5, 2008; exited certain spirits production contracts in connection with the sale of a Canadian distilling facility on August 31, 2008; and sold certain value spirits brands on March 24, 2009, organic net sales for the three months ended May 31, 2008, are defined by the company as reported net sales less net sales of Pacific Northwest wine brands and/or net sales of certain spirits contract production services and/or value brands, as appropriate.  Organic net sales and percentage increase (decrease) in constant currency net sales (which excludes the impact of year over year currency exchange rate fluctuations) are provided because management uses this information in monitoring and evaluating the underlying business trends of the continuing operations of the company.  In addition, the company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-14-
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(1)
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
-more-
 
 
-15-
 
-more-
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)
NOTES
 
 
DEFINITIONS
Global Initiative
The company's plan announced in April 2009 to simplify its business, increase efficiencies and reduce its cost structure on a global basis (the "Global Initiative").
Australian Initiative
The company's plan announced in August 2008 to sell certain assets and implement operational changes designed to improve the efficiencies and returns associated with its Australian business (the "Australian Initiative").
Fiscal 2008 Plan
The company's plan announced in November 2007 to streamline certain of its international operations, primarily in Australia; certain other restructuring charges incurred during the third quarter of fiscal 2008 in connection with the consolidation of certain spirits production processes in the U.S.; and its plan announced in January 2008 to streamline certain of its operations in the U.S., primarily in connection with the restructuring and integration of the operations of Beam Wine Estates, Inc. ("BWE") (collectively, the "Fiscal 2008 Plan").
Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan
The company's plan announced in August 2006 to invest in new distribution and bottling facilities in the U.K. and to streamline certain Australian wine operations (collectively, the "Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan").
 
 
 
-16-
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)
GUIDANCE - - DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE AND FREE CASH FLOW
(in millions, except per share data) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Free Cash Flow Guidance
 
Free cash flow, as defined in the reconciliation below, is considered a liquidity measure and is considered to provide useful information to investors about the amount of cash generated, which can then be used, after required debt service and dividend payments, for other general corporate purposes.  A limitation of free cash flow is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period.  Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, cash flow from operating activities prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 


