FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20090605133754.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
(b)           On June 2, 2009, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company) eliminated the position of Jon Moramarco, Chief Executive Officer, Constellation International effective July 1, 2009.  His last day of employment will be June 30, 2009.
 
 
On June 5, 2009, the Company issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, providing information regarding senior management changes to its international business.
References to Constellations website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference.  The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD.  This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
[LOGO] Constellation
NEWS RELEASE
06
 
 
 Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR), the worlds leading producer of premium wines, announced today that Jon Moramarco, chief executive officer of Constellation International, will leave the company effective June 30, 2009. Jon has been a highly valued member of the management team since 1999 and his strategic insight, knowledge and vast wine industry experience have helped us build a portfolio of brands that is unrivalled in the industry, said Rob Sands, president and chief executive officer (CEO). Jons significant contributions are very much appreciated and we thank him for his many years of service.
VICTOR, N.Y., June 5, 2009
With this change, the company also announced that Paul Hetterich will oversee the international business of Constellation Europe, Constellation Wines Australia and Constellation New Zealand as executive vice president, business development, corporate strategy and international. Reporting to Hetterich, will be Troy Christensen, who will assume responsibility for Constellation Wines Australia in addition to his current duties as president of Constellation Europe; and Joe Stanton, CEO of Constellation New Zealand. John Grant, president of Constellation Wines Australia, will report to Christensen. The reporting changes are effective immediately.
As we continue to evaluate the organization and look to position the company for long-term success, refining and simplifying our international organization provides opportunities for increased synergies within the U.K. and Australian markets, said Sands. We anticipate significant benefits from a leaner and more flexible international organization as we continue toward our goal of improving efficiencies, profit, cash flow and return on invested capital as well as paying down debt.
 
 
 
In addition to assuming the helm of the international business, Hetterich will continue to lead the companys mergers, acquisitions and divestiture initiatives and strategic planning. He joined the Canandaigua Wine Company in 1986 and has held a number of positions in brand management, business development and corporate strategy. In 2003, he was named a company executive officer when he was promoted to executive vice president business development and corporate strategy.
Christensen joined Constellation Brands in 1997 holding a number of domestic and international roles including being named chief financial officer of Constellation Europe in 2006 and president of Constellation Europe in 2007. Stanton has served as CEO of Constellation New Zealand since 2004. Grant was appointed president of Constellation Wines Australia in 2007.
About Constellation Brands
Constellation Brands, Inc. is the leading producer of premium wines in the world, with a portfolio that includes many well-known and highly regarded wine brands, complemented by spirits, imported beers and other select beverage alcohol products. The company has significant market presence in the U.S., Canada, U.K., Australia and New Zealand.  Based in Victor, N.Y., the company has more than 100 strong consumer brands in its portfolio, sales in about 150 countries and operates approximately 50 wineries and other facilities.  It is the largest premium wine company in the U.S.; the largest wine company in the U.K., Australia and Canada; the second largest wine company in New Zealand; and the largest beer importer and marketer in the U.S. through its Crown Imports joint venture with Mexicos Grupo Modelo.  Constellation Brands is an S&P 500 Index and Fortune 1000 company.  Major brands in the companys portfolio include Robert Mondavi wines, Hardys, Clos du Bois, Blackstone, Banrock Station, Arbor Mist, Estancia, Ravenswood, Jackson-Triggs, Kim Crawford, Corona Extra, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and SVEDKA Vodka. To learn more about Constellation Brands and its product portfolio visit the companys Web site at www.cbrands.com.


