FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20091130142030.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
On November 30, 2009, Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, announcing that it has entered into an agreement to sell its European cider business, along with a production facility and associated warehouses and distribution facilities, to C&C Group PLC of Dublin, Ireland (C&C).  In addition, the parties will provide one another certain temporary transition services after the sale transaction.  The news release also provided information about, among other things, the expected impact of the transaction upon the diluted earnings per share outlook regarding Constellations fiscal year ending February 28, 2010.  The projections constituting the guidance included in the news release involve risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at this time and, therefore, actual results may vary materially from these projections.  In this regard, see the information included in the news release under the caption Forward-Looking Statements.
References to Constellations website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference.  The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD.  This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
[LOGO]
Constellation
NEWS RELEASE
17
 
 
 
 
VICTOR, N.Y., Nov. 30, 2009
  Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR), the worlds leading wine company, announced today that it has entered into an agreement to sell its Gaymer Cider Company business to C&C Group PLC of Dublin Ireland for 45 million, or approximately $70 million, subject to closing adjustments. The transaction is expected to close by mid-January 2010.  
The Gaymer cider business has been a valued and respected part of Constellations European operations for many years, said Rob Sands, president and chief executive officer, Constellation Brands. However, as the companys strategy has evolved to focus on premium higher-growth, higher-margin wine, beer and spirits brands, it made good strategic sense to sell the cider business. Overall, Constellation continues to pursue opportunities and strategies that promote the simplification of its international organization, the improvement of efficiencies, return on invested capital, cash flow and the reduction of costs.
           Constellation expects that proceeds from the sale will be used to reduce its borrowings. The sale is expected to result in a nominal gain on the transaction, which will be excluded from the companys comparable basis diluted
 
earnings per share (EPS). The impact of this transaction is expected to be
neutral to ongoing reported basis and comparable basis diluted EPS for fiscal 2010.
As part of the transaction, C&C will receive all Gaymer cider brands including Blackthorn Cider, Gaymers Original and Pear Cider, Addlestones and Olde English Cider along with a production facility and associated warehouses and distribution facilities. C&C has a strong track record for growing the cider and beer brands that they own, which makes this mutually beneficial for both companies, said Sands. I want to thank the cider employees who have worked tirelessly to make the business profitable and successful and wish them well into the future.
 
Explanations
Reported basis (reported) diluted earnings per share are as reported under generally accepted accounting principles. Diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis (comparable), exclude acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring charges and unusual items.
 
About Constellation Brands
    Constellation Brands is the worlds leading wine company that achieves success through an unmatched knowledge of wine consumers paired with storied brands that suit varied lives and tastes. With a broad portfolio of widely admired premium products across the wine, beer and
spirits categories, Constellations brand portfolio includes Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Clos du Bois, Blackstone, Arbor Mist, Estancia, Ravenswood, Jackson-Triggs, Kim Crawford, Corona Extra, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and SVEDKA Vodka.
Constellation Brands (NYSE: STZ and STZ.B; ASX: CBR) is an S&P 500 Index and Fortune 1000 company with more than 100 total brands in our portfolio, sales in about 150 countries and operations in approximately 50 facilities. The company believes that industry leadership involves a commitment to our brands, to the trade, to the land, to investors and to different people around the world who turn to our products when celebrating big moments or enjoying quiet ones. We express this commitment through our vision: to elevate life with every glass raised. To learn more about Constellation Brands and its product portfolio visit the company's web site at .
www.cbrands.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements.  The words anticipate, intend, and expect, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain such identifying words.  These statements may relate to Constellations business strategy, future operations, prospects, plans and objectives of management, as well as information concerning expected actions of third parties.  All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in, or implied by, such forward-looking statements.  Some of these risks and uncertainties include factors relating to Constellation's ability to consummate the transaction and realize expected gains.  There can be no assurance that any transaction between Constellation and C&C Group PLC will occur, or will occur on the timetable contemplated hereby.
Although Constellation believes the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, Constellation can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct.  All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this news release.  Constellation undertakes no obligation to
 
 
update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
In addition to risks associated with ordinary business operations, the forward-looking statements contained in this news release are subject to other risks and uncertainties, including:
 
 


