FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20091201140029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
(b)       Effective November 24, 2009,
Jos
F. Fernandez, Chief Executive Officer, Constellation Wines North America is on a leave of absence from Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) for personal medical reasons.  He remains an employee of Constellation.
 
 
On December 1, 2009, Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, providing information regarding a senior management change within its North American business.
References to Constellations website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference.  The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD.  This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
[LOGO] 
Constellation
 
NEWS RELEASE
18
 
 
 Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR), the worlds leading wine company, announced today that it has promoted Jay Wright to president of Constellation Wines North America (CWNA) effective immediately. The CWNA organization includes Constellation Wines U.S. (CWUS) and Vincor Canada.
VICTOR, N.Y., Dec. 1, 2009
The company also announced that Jos F. Fernandez, chief executive officer (CEO) of CWNA, has begun a leave of absence due to personal medical reasons.
A native of Montreal, Wright was named executive vice president and chief commercial officer of CWUS in March, 2009. Prior to the post, he served as president of Vincor Canada for seven years.  A graduate of Queens University in Canada, Wright held management positions at Molson, Nabisco, and Procter & Gamble in Canada and at Borden Foods Corporation in the U.S. In his current role, Wright reports to Rob Sands, president and CEO of Constellation Brands, Inc. and will continue to do so in his new role.
 
About Constellation Brands
 
    Constellation Brands is the worlds leading wine company that achieves success through an unmatched knowledge of wine consumers paired with storied brands that suit varied lives and tastes. With a broad portfolio of widely admired premium products across the wine, beer and
spirits categories, Constellations brand portfolio includes Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Clos du Bois, Blackstone, Arbor Mist, Estancia, Ravenswood, Jackson-Triggs, Kim Crawford, Corona Extra, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and SVEDKA Vodka.
 
-more-
-2-
Constellation Brands (NYSE: STZ and STZ.B; ASX: CBR) is an S&P 500 Index and Fortune 1000 company with more than 100 total brands in our portfolio, sales in about 150
countries and operations in approximately 50 facilities. The company believes that industry leadership involves a commitment to our brands, to the trade, to the land, to investors and to different people around the world who turn to our products when celebrating big moments or enjoying quiet ones. We express this commitment through our vision: to elevate life with every glass raised. To learn more about Constellation Brands and its product portfolio visit the company's web site at .
www.cbrands.com


