FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20101006082718.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On October 6, 2010, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company), a Delaware corporation, issued a news release (the release) announcing its financial condition and results of operations as of and for the second fiscal quarter ended August 31, 2010.  A copy of the release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.  The projections constituting the guidance included in the release involve risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at this time and, therefore, actual results may vary materially from these forecasts.  In this regard, see the information included in the release under the caption Forward-Looking Statements.
The information in the release is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Such information may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
The release contains non-GAAP financial measures; in the release these are referred to as comparable, organic or constant currency measures.  For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so cal culated and presented.  In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Comparable measures, organic net sales measures and constant currency measures are provided because management uses this information in monitoring and evaluating the results and underlying business trends of the continuing operations of the Company and/or in internal goal setting.  In addition, the Company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.  As such, the following items, including any related income tax effect, are excluded from comparable results, when appropriate:  the flow through of inventory step-up associated with acquisitions; accelerated depreciation in connection with certain restructuring activities; the write-down of inventory in connection with certain restructuring activi ties and the disposal of a business; other costs incurred in connection with certain restructuring and/or integration activities; losses and/or gains in connection with the disposal of businesses and/or assets, including assets held for sale; a loss on the contractual obligation created by the notification by the 9.9% shareholder of Ruffino S.r.l. (Ruffino) to exercise the option to put its entire equity interest in Ruffino to the Company for a specified minimum value; acquisition-related integration costs; impairments of certain intangible assets; restructuring charges; a loss in connection with an equity method investees disposal of a business; the impairment of an equity method investment; loss on write-off of financing costs; and a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets in the United Kingdom.  The Company sold certain value spirits brands on March 24, 2009, and sold its United Kingdom cider business on January 15, 2010.  Accordingly, during the indicated period, organic net sales measures exclude certain spirits production service contracts, certain value spirits brands and/or cider, as appropriate.  Constant currency measures exclude the impact of year over year currency exchange rate fluctuations.
 
 
 
On October 6, 2010, Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
References to Constellations website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference.  The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD.  This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references t he information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Constellation Brands Reports Q2 Fiscal 2011 Results
 
 Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR), the worlds leading wine company, reported today its second quarter fiscal 2011 results.
VICTOR, N.Y., Oct. 6, 2010
"Our second quarter results demonstrate that we are gaining momentum from the successful execution of our U.S. distributor strategy, said Rob Sands, president and chief executive officer, Constellation Brands. During the quarter, we experienced improving U.S. wine depletion trends and retail execution despite an uncertain consumer and competitive environment. Our brand investments and promotional activities are helping to fuel growth in the marketplace for our core brands including Robert Mondavi, Kim Crawford, Clos du Bois and Blackstone, just to name a few.
 
 
*Definitions of reported, comparable, organic and constant currency, as well as reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures, are contained elsewhere in this news release.
** Hereafter referred to as equity earnings.
 NA=Not applicable
 
Net Sales Commentary
Reported consolidated net sales decreased two percent due primarily to the divestiture of the U.K. cider business. Organic net sales on a constant currency basis increased two percent.
Consolidated wine organic net sales on a constant currency basis increased four percent. North America wine net sales on a constant currency basis increased four percent primarily reflecting favorable product mix and an increase in volume, partially offset by higher promotion costs. The increase in shipments resulted in higher distributor inventory levels. However, Constellations underlying retail takeaway as measured by SymphonyIRI was strong during the quarter with value growth of seven percent versus five percent for the industry in the 12-week period ending Sept. 5, 2010, said Sands.
 
Page 1
 
Australia and Europe wine net sales on an organic constant currency basis increased four percent versus the prior year second quarter.
Total spirits organic net sales decreased 15 percent for the quarter.  Our second quarter spirits net sales results do not reflect the robust underlying market performance for SVEDKA Vodka with depletions growing double digits through the first half of the year, said Sands. Last years second quarter SVEDKA net sales increased approximately 90 percent driven by U.S. distributor transition activities, which created a difficult comparison.
Operating Income and Net Income Commentary
The consolidated comparable basis operating income decline was primarily driven by an increase in corporate expense and a decrease in the Australia and Europe wine segment due in part to the divestiture of the cider business.
Constellations equity earnings from its 50 percent interest in the Crown Imports joint venture totaled $65 million, a decrease of 10 percent from the prior year second quarter.  For second quarter 2011, Crown generated net sales of $679 million, a decrease of 2 percent, and operating income of $131 million, a decrease of 9 percent. Net sales for Crown were impacted primarily by lower volume, higher promotions and unfavorable mix. Operating income for Crown decreased primarily due to promotional investments, a contractual product cost increase and lower volume.
Throughout the summer selling season, Crowns sales volumes lagged depletions due to temporary wholesaler inventory reductions resulting from disruption related to a brewery strike in Mexico and Hurricane Alex, said Sands. However, consumer demand for Crowns products remained solid for the second consecutive quarter driven by the Win the Beach and World Cup Soccer promotional initiatives. Crown is targeting to build on this consumer momentum with new advertising programs during the NFL season.
For second quarter 2011, pre-tax restructuring charges and unusual items totaled $17 million compared to $29 million for the prior year second quarter.
Interest expense totaled $50 million, a decrease of 26 percent. The decrease was primarily due to lower average interest rates and borrowings during the quarter.
The comparable basis effective tax rate for the quarter was 35 percent compared to 31 percent for the prior year second quarter. The company continues to anticipate a full year comparable basis effective tax rate of 35 percent.
Common Stock Repurchase
On April 16, 2010, the company entered into a $300 million accelerated stock buyback (ASB) transaction. During the first quarter, the company received 13.8 million shares of Class A Common Stock, representing the minimum number of shares that will be received under the ASB transaction. The company did not receive any additional shares in connection with this transaction during the second quarter. The final number of shares to be received under the ASB transaction will be determined at the close of the transaction, which is scheduled to end no later than Nov. 24, 2010.
The company has increased its fiscal 2011 free cash flow target to a record level in the range of $375-$425 million, said Bob Ryder, chief financial officer, Constellation Brands. Our strong free cash flow generation for the first half of fiscal 2011 reflects our increasing focus on improving the conversion of EBITDA to free cash flow. Our plan for the remainder of the year is to utilize our free cash flow to pay down debt.
Summary
While some uncertainty remains in global markets, we are focused on building a stronger business for the future, said Sands. We have demonstrated this during the second quarter by generating strong free cash flow, paying down debt and driving profitable organic growth.
Outlook
The table below sets forth managements current diluted EPS expectations for fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010 actual results, both on a reported basis and a comparable basis.
 
Page 2
 
Full-year fiscal 2011 guidance includes the following current assumptions:
Conference Call
A conference call to discuss second quarter fiscal 2011 results and outlook will be hosted by President and Chief Executive Officer Rob Sands and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Bob Ryder on Wed. Oct. 6, 2010 at 10:30 a.m. (eastern).  The conference call can be accessed by dialing +973-935-8505 beginning 10 minutes prior to the start of the call.  A live listen-only webcast of the conference call, together with a copy of this news release (including the attachments) and other financial information that may be discussed in the call will be available on the Internet at Constellations Web site: www.cbrands.com under Investors, prior to the call.
Explanations
Reported basis (reported) operating income, net income and diluted EPS are as reported under generally accepted accounting principles.  Operating income, net income and diluted EPS on a comparable basis (comparable), exclude restructuring charges and unusual items.  The companys measure of segment profitability excludes restructuring charges and unusual items, which is consistent with the measure used by management to evaluate results.
The company discusses additional non-GAAP measures in this news release, including constant currency net sales, organic net sales, comparable basis EBIT and free cash flow.
Tables reconciling non-GAAP measures, together with definitions of these measures and the reasons management uses these measures, are included in this news release.
About Constellation Brands
Constellation Brands is the worlds leading wine company that achieves success through
an unmatched knowledge of wine consumers, storied brands that suit varied lives and tastes, and
talented employees worldwide. With a broad portfolio of widely admired premium products across the wine, beer and spirits categories, Constellations brand portfolio includes Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Clos du Bois, Blackstone, Arbor Mist, Estancia, Ravenswood, Jackson-Triggs, Kim Crawford, Corona Extra, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and SVEDKA Vodka.
Constellation Brands (NYSE: STZ and STZ.B; ASX: CBR) is an S&P 500 Index and Fortune 1000 company with more than 100 brands in our portfolio, sales in about 150 countries and operations at more than 40 facilities. The company believes that industry leadership involves a commitment to our brands, to the trade, to the land, to investors and to different people around the world who turn to our products when celebrating big moments or enjoying quiet ones. We express this commitment through our vision: to elevate life with every glass raised. To learn more about Constellation, visit the company's web site at www.cbrands.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
The statements made under the heading Outlook, and all statements other than statements of historical facts set forth in this news release regarding Constellations business strategy, future operations, financial position, estimated revenues, projected costs, prospects, plans and objectives of management, as well as information concerning expected actions of third parties, are forward-looking statements (collectively, the Projections) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the Projections.
During the current quarter, Constellation may reiterate the Projections.  Prior to the start of the company's quiet period, which will begin at the close of business on Nov. 30, 2010, the public can continue to rely on the Projections as still being Constellation's current expectations on the matters covered, unless Constellation publishes a notice stating otherwise.  During Constellations quiet period, the Projections should not be considered to constitute the companys expectations and should be considered historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet period only and not subject to update by the company.
 
Page 3
 
The Projections are based on management's current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination, divestiture, restructuring or other strategic business realignments, financing or share repurchase that may be completed after the date of this release. The Projections should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur.
In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the Projections of the company contained in this news release are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:
Investor Relations
Patty Yahn-Urlaub  585-678-7483
Bob Czudak  585-678-7170
 
Page 4
 
 
 
Page 5
 
 
 
Page 6
 
 
 
Page 7
 
 
 
Page 8
 
 
 
 
Page 9
 
 
 
Page 10
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 11
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 12
 
 
 
Page 13
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 14


