FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20100107082947.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
On January 7, 2010, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company), a Delaware corporation, issued a news release (the release) announcing its financial condition and results of operations as of and for the third fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2009.  A copy of the release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.  The projections constituting the guidance included in the release involve risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at this time and, therefore, actual results may vary materially from these forecasts.  In this regard, see the information included in the release under the caption Forward-Looking Statements.
 
The information in the release is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Such information may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
The release contains non-GAAP financial measures; in the release these are referred to as comparable, organic or constant currency measures.  For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented.  In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Comparable measures, organic net sales measures and constant currency measures are provided because management uses this information in monitoring and evaluating the results and underlying business trends of the continuing operations of the Company and/or in internal goal setting.  In addition, the Company believes this information provides investors a better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.  As such, the following items, including any related income tax effect, are excluded from comparable results, when appropriate:  the flow through of adverse grape cost associated with an acquisition; the flow through of inventory step-up associated with acquisitions; accelerated depreciation in connection with certain restructuring activities; the write-down of inventory in connection with certain restructuring activities; other costs incurred in connection with certain restructuring and/or integration activities; losses in connection with the disposal of a business and/or assets, including assets held for sale; a loss on the contractual obligation created by the notification by the 9.9% shareholder of Ruffino S.r.l. (Ruffino) to exercise the option to put its entire equity interest in Ruffino to the Company for a specified minimum value; impairment of intangible assets; restructuring charges; acquisition-related integration costs; the impairments of certain equity method investments; and the recognition of income tax expense in connection with the gain on settlement of certain foreign currency economic hedges.  The Company divested certain Pacific Northwest wine brands on June 5, 2008; exited certain spirits production contracts in connection with the sale of a Canadian distilling facility on August 31, 2008; and sold certain value spirits brands on March 24, 2009.  Accordingly, during the indicated period, organic net sales measures exclude the net sales of certain Pacific Northwest wine brands, certain spirits production contracts, and/or certain value spirits brands, as appropriate.  Constant currency measures exclude the impact of year over year currency exchange rate fluctuations.
 
 
 
On January 7, 2010, Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
References to Constellations website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference.  The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD.  This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
 
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

NEWS RELEASE
22
 Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR), the worlds leading wine company, reported today its fiscal 2010 third quarter results. "During the quarter, we continued to execute well against our strategic goals of generating cash, paying down debt and reducing costs,
VICTOR, N.Y., Jan. 7, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
said Rob Sands, president and chief executive officer, Constellation Brands.  U.S. branded wine net sales were impacted by continuing economic challenges, higher levels of promotional spending in advance of the holiday selling season, and the expected shift of sales to the second quarter from the third quarter as part of our U.S. distributor network consolidation activities. But, we began to see improving depletion trends later in the quarter.
 
*Definitions of reported, comparable, organic and constant currency, as well as reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures, are contained elsewhere in this news release.
** Hereafter referred to as equity earnings.
NM= Not Meaningful
 
Net Sales Commentary
 
Reported consolidated net sales decreased four percent due primarily to the impact of the value spirits divestiture, partially offset by the favorable impact of year-over-year currency exchange rate fluctuations. Organic constant currency net sales were even with the prior year.
 
Branded wine organic net sales on a constant currency basis were even versus last year and included a three percent decrease in North America offset by increases of 12 percent in Europe and two percent in Australia/New Zealand. The sales increase in Europe was primarily due to higher volumes of lower priced products.
 
Total spirits organic net sales decreased two percent for the quarter. The decrease was primarily due to a difficult comparison versus third quarter fiscal 2009. Glass shortages for SVEDKA vodka relating to a new bottle changeover in last years second quarter resulted in higher shipment levels in last years third quarter. Spirits organic net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2010 increased 18 percent with SVEDKA vodka net sales increasing more than 40 percent. The
 
 
 
 
brand continues to experience strong momentum in the marketplace.
 
Operating Income, Net Income, Diluted EPS Commentary
 
Wines segment operating income decreased $22 million versus the prior year third quarter. This is primarily due to the decrease in U.S. branded wine sales, divestiture of the value spirits business and a decrease in operating income from the international business.
 
Constellations equity earnings from its 50 percent interest in the Crown
Imports joint venture totaled $46 million, a decrease of 26 percent from the prior year third quarter.  For third quarter 2010, Crown Imports generated net sales of $499 million, a decrease of 10 percent, and operating income of $91 million, a decrease of 26 percent. Net sales for Crown were impacted primarily by volume declines. However, depletion trends outpaced shipments resulting in temporary wholesaler inventory reductions during the quarter. Operating income for Crown decreased due to lower net sales, expense timing related to national media programs for Corona Extra and Corona Light and a contractual cost increase.
 
While the on-premise and convenience store channels remain challenging, we are seeing stabilization in the grocery channel as Crown continues to execute on targeted promotional spending, media support and the introduction of new packages for consumers to enjoy at a wide variety of venues, occasions and price points, said Sands. These actions have helped to improve depletion trends as we have also experienced import category market share gains during the quarter.
 
For third quarter 2010, pre-tax restructuring charges, acquisition-related integration costs and unusual items totaled $81 million, including $60 million for impairment and other charges related to the Ruffino joint venture, compared to $21 million for the prior year third quarter.
 
Interest expense totaled $64 million, a decrease of 18 percent. The decrease was primarily due to lower average borrowings during the quarter.
 
Our debt level has decreased $336 million since the beginning of fiscal 2010 and we are estimating full-year free cash flow to be at the upper-end of our guidance range, said Bob Ryder, chief financial officer, Constellation Brands.
 
 
 
We anticipate that proceeds from the pending sale of the U.K. cider business combined with targeted free cash flow generation during the fourth quarter will further advance our deleveraging efforts.
 
The comparable basis effective tax rate in the third quarter was 35.4 percent which reflects the favorable outcome of various tax items. The company anticipates a full year comparable tax rate of approximately 35 percent which represents a reduction to previous guidance.
 
Summary
 
The industry and our results continue to be impacted by the difficult economic climate. However, we believe we have the right strategies in place to organically grow the business as we continue to experience improving market trends in our U.S. wine and beer businesses, said Sands. Overall, we remain optimistic for the future and intend to continue to work toward reducing borrowings, improving free cash flow and optimizing return on invested capital. Our comparable basis diluted EPS expectation for the full year remains unchanged.
 
 
Outlook
 
The table below sets forth managements current diluted EPS expectations for fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 actual results, both on a reported basis and a comparable basis.
 
Full-year fiscal 2010 guidance includes the following current assumptions:
 
 
 
 
business; five percentage points related to the nondeductible charges
associated with the companys Ruffino joint venture; with the remainder primarily related to international restructuring activities which have minimal tax benefits
 
Conference Call
 
A conference call to discuss third quarter 2010 results and outlook will be hosted by President and Chief Executive Officer Rob Sands and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Bob Ryder on Thursday, Jan. 7, 2010 at 10:30 a.m. (eastern).  The conference call can be accessed by dialing +973-935-8505 beginning 10 minutes prior to the start of the call.  A live listen-only webcast of the conference call, together with a copy of this news release (including the attachments) and other financial information that may be discussed in the call will be available on the Internet at Constellations Web site: www.cbrands.com under Investors, prior to the call.
 
Explanations
 
Reported basis (reported) operating income, net income and diluted EPS are as reported under generally accepted accounting principles.  Operating income, net income and diluted EPS on a comparable basis (comparable), exclude restructuring charges, acquisition-related integration costs and unusual items.  The companys measure of segment profitability excludes restructuring charges, acquisition-related integration costs and unusual items, which is consistent with the measure used by management to evaluate results.
 
The company discusses additional non-GAAP measures in this news release, including constant currency net sales, organic net sales, comparable basis EBIT and free cash flow.
 
Tables reconciling non-GAAP measures, together with definitions of these measures and the reasons management uses these measures, are included in
this news release.
About Constellation Brands
 
Constellation Brands is the worlds leading wine company that achieves success through an unmatched knowledge of wine consumers paired with storied brands that suit varied lives and tastes. With a broad portfolio of widely admired premium products across the wine, beer and
 
spirits categories, Constellations brand portfolio includes Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Clos du Bois, Blackstone, Arbor Mist, Estancia, Ravenswood, Jackson-Triggs, Kim Crawford, Corona Extra, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and SVEDKA Vodka.
 
Constellation Brands (NYSE: STZ and STZ.B; ASX: CBR) is an S&P 500 Index and Fortune 1000 company with more than 100 total brands in our portfolio, sales in about 150 countries and operations in approximately 45 facilities. The company believes that industry leadership involves a commitment to our brands, to the trade, to the land, to investors and to different people around the world who turn to our products when celebrating big moments or enjoying quiet ones. We express this commitment through our vision: to elevate life with every glass raised. To learn more about Constellation Brands and its product portfolio visit the company's web site at .
www.cbrands.com
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The statements made under the heading Outlook, and all statements other than statements of historical facts set forth in this news release regarding Constellations business strategy, future operations, financial position, estimated revenues, projected costs, prospects, plans and objectives of management, as well as information concerning expected actions of third parties, are forward-looking statements (collectively, the Projections) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the Projections.
 
During the current quarter, Constellation may reiterate the Projections.  Prior to the start of the company's quiet period, which will begin at the close of business on Feb. 19, 2010, the public can continue to rely on the Projections as still being Constellation's current expectations on the matters covered, unless Constellation publishes a notice stating otherwise.  During Constellations quiet period, the Projections should not be considered to constitute the companys expectations and should be considered historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet period only and not subject to update by the company.
 
The Projections are based on management's current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination, divestiture, restructuring or other strategic business realignments, or financing that may be completed after the date of this release. The Projections should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur.
 
In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the Projections of the company contained in this news release are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:
 
 
 
 
 
-8-
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in millions)
 
 
 
 
-9-
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
-10-
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in millions)
 
 
 
 
-11-
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
SEGMENT INFORMATION
(in millions)
NM = Not Meaningful
 
 
 
 
-12-
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
(in millions)
 
 
 
 
-13-
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATION OF REPORTED, ORGANIC AND CONSTANT CURRENCY NET SALES
(in millions)
As the company sold certain Pacific Northwest wine brands on June 5, 2008; exited certain spirits production contracts in connection with the sale of a Canadian distilling facility on August 31, 2008; and sold certain value spirits brands on March 24, 2009, organic net sales for the respective periods are defined by the company as reported net sales less net sales of Pacific Northwest wine brands and/or net sales of certain spirits contract production services and/or value brands, as appropriate.  Organic net sales and percentage increase (decrease) in constant currency net sales (which excludes the impact of year over year currency exchange rate fluctuations) are provided because management uses this information in monitoring and evaluating the underlying business trends of the continuing operations of the company.  In addition, the company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.
 
-14-
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(1)
(in millions, except per share data)
 
-15-
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(1)
(in millions, except per share data)
 
-16-
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)
NOTES
DEFINITIONS
Global Initiative
The company's plan announced in April 2009 to simplify its business, increase efficiencies and reduce its cost structure on a global basis (the "Global Initiative").
Australian Initiative
The company's plan announced in August 2008 to sell certain assets and implement operational changes designed to improve the efficiencies and returns associated with its Australian business (the "Australian Initiative").
Fiscal 2008 Plan
The company's plan announced in November 2007 to streamline certain of its international operations, primarily in Australia; certain other restructuring charges incurred during the third quarter of fiscal 2008 in connection with the consolidation of certain spirits production processes in the U.S.; and its plan announced in January 2008 to streamline certain of its operations in the U.S., primarily in connection with the restructuring and integration of the operations of Beam Wine Estates, Inc. ("BWE") (collectively, the "Fiscal 2008 Plan").
Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan
The company's plan announced in August 2006 to invest in new distribution and bottling facilities in the U.K. and to streamline certain Australian wine operations (collectively, the "Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan").
 
-more-
 
 
 
 
 
-17-
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)
GUIDANCE - - DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE AND FREE CASH FLOW
(in millions, except per share data)
Free Cash Flow Guidance
 
Free cash flow, as defined in the reconciliation below, is considered a liquidity measure and is considered to provide useful information to investors about the amount of cash generated, which can then be used, after required debt service and dividend payments, for other general corporate purposes.  A limitation of free cash flow is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period.  Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, cash flow from operating activities prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 


