FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20100422142759.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 20, 2010, the Board of Directors of Constellation Brands, Inc. took action to fill a vacancy on the Board and elected Jeremy S. G. (Jerry) Fowden to serve, effective May 1, 2010, as a member of the Board of Directors and a member of the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors.
 
Mr. Fowden, age 53, has been Chief Executive Officer of Cott Corporation, a private label non-alcoholic beverage manufacturer, since February 2009 and a member of Cott Corporations Board of Directors since March 2009.  Prior to that, he served as President of Cotts international operating segments and Interim President, North America from May 2008 to February 2009, and as Interim President of Cotts United Kingdom operating segment from September 2007 to May 2008.  He served as Chief Executive Officer of Trader Media Group Ltd., a media company, and as a member of its parent Guardian Media Group plcs Board of Directors from 2005 until 2007.  From 2001 until 2004, he served in a variety of roles with AB InBev S.A. Belgium, an alcoholic beverage company, including President, Eur opean Zone, Western, Central and Eastern Europe from 2003 to 2004, Global Chief Operating Officer from 2002 to 2003 and Chief Executive Officer of Bass Brewers Ltd., a subsidiary of AB InBev S.A. Belgium, from 2001 to 2002.  
 
The Board considers Mr. Fowden to be an independent director under applicable New York Stock Exchange requirements.  As a non-management member of the Board, Mr. Fowden will receive the same standard compensation paid to other non-management directors for service on the Board and its committees, which compensation has been disclosed previously in the Companys proxy statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders that was held on July 23, 2009 and filed by the Company with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on June 12, 2009.  However, as Mr. Fowden is being elected outside the annual meeting timeframe, the amount of his annual retainer, annual option grant and restricted stock award has been prorated from the effective date of his election to the end of the month of the scheduled date of the C ompanys next annual meeting of stockholders.  Specifically, on May 1, 2010, Mr. Fowden (i) will become entitled to a prorated annual retainer in the amount of $15,000; (ii) will be granted an option to purchase the number of shares of the Companys Class 1 Common Stock that is equal to $34,999.99 divided by the closing price of the Companys Class A Common Stock on May 1, 2010, rounded down to the nearest whole share at an exercise price equal to the closing price of the Companys Class A Common Stock on May 1, 2010 and an exercise period of November 1, 2010 through May 1, 2020; and (iii) will receive an award of restricted shares of the Companys Class A Common Stock equal to $15,000.00 divided by the closing price of the Companys Class A Common Stock on May 1, 2010, rounded down to the nearest whole share.  As May 1, 2010 is not a trading day, the closing price on April 30, 2010 is deemed to be the closing price on May 1, 2010.  Subject to appl icable provisions in the award document, the restricted stock will vest on May 1, 2011.  The form of Mr. Fowdens Terms and Conditions Memorandum with respect to his stock option grant and the form of Mr. Fowdens Restricted Stock Award Agreement, both pursuant to the Company's Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan, are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Fowden and any other person pursuant to which he was selected either as a director or as a member of the Human Resources Committee, and there have been no transactions since the beginning of the Companys last fiscal year, or are currently proposed, regarding Mr. Fowden that are required to be disclosed by Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
 
 
 
 
 
On April 21, 2010, Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.3 and is incorporated herein by reference, announcing the election of Jerry Fowden as a member of the Companys Board of Directors effective May 1, 2010.
References to Constellations website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference.  The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.3 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD.  This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the in formation incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
[LOGO]
Constellation
MEMORANDUM
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF STOCK OPTIONS
CLASS 1 COMMON STOCK
[Date]
The CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC. Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time (the Plan), enables Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company) to grant stock options to purchase Class 1 Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company (a Share or the Shares) to employees and directors of the Company (each, when granted a stock option, an Optionee).  The stock options represented by this Memorandum and the accompanying award letter (respectively, the Options and the Memorandum and accompanying award letter, together, the Documents) are subject to all of the terms and conditions contained in the Documents.  By accepting delivery of the Documents, the Optionee agrees to be bound by the terms and condition s of the Documents.
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
                                
 
 
This (the "Agreement"), dated as of ___________, is made between Constellation Brands, Inc. (the "Company") and _________________ (the "Participant") to record the granting of Restricted Stock on ___________ (the "Date of Grant") to the Participant pursuant to the Company's Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time (the "Plan").
RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT
The Company and the Participant hereby agree as follows:
           The Company hereby grants to the Participant, as of the Date of Grant, subject to and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement, _______ shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Class A Stock").  (The grant of shares of Class A Stock to the Participant, evidenced by this Agreement, is an award of Restricted Stock (as defined in the Plan) and such shares of Restricted Stock are referred to herein as the "Shares".)
1.
Grant of Shares
.
2.         .
Vesting of Shares
          .  Ownership of 100% of the Shares shall vest on ________, that the Participant continues as a member of the Companys Board of Directors until such date.
(a)
Service
provided
          If the Participant ceases being a member of the Companys Board of Directors as a result of the Participants death or disability, the Shares shall immediately vest.  For this purpose, disability means a long-lasting physical or mental impairment that prevents the Participant from performing his/her duties as a member of the Companys Board of Directors, as solely determined by the Board of Directors.
(b)
Death or Disability
.  
 
 
 
 
 
          The Shares are subject to the provisions of the Plan pertaining to a Change in Control of the Company.
(c)
Change in Control
.
           Shares that do not become vested in accordance with the vesting criteria set forth in Section 2 above (and any dividends or other distributions related to such Shares) shall be forfeited to the Company.
3.
Forfeiture.
          Each share certificate representing the Shares shall bear a legend indicating that such Shares are "Restricted Stock" and are subject to the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan.
4.
Legend
.
           The Shares shall become transferable only when they become vested in accordance with Section 2 of this Agreement.  Share certificates representing all unvested Shares shall be held by the Company until such Shares have become vested.  As the Shares vest, and as all other restrictions and conditions set forth in this Agreement and under the Plan (as they apply to Restricted Stock) are satisfied, certificates representing the Shares (along wi th any dividends and other distributions relating to those Shares) shall be released to the Participant.  At that time, the Company shall take such steps as may be appropriate to delete the legend on the certificate which identifies the Shares as Restricted Stock.
5.
Transferability; Restricted Share Certificates to be Held by the Company
.
           The Participant may elect, within 30 days of the Date of Grant pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, to include in his or her gross income the fair market value of the Shares covered by this Agreement in the taxable year of grant.  If the Participant makes this election, he shall promptly notify the Company by submitting to the Company a copy of the statement filed with the Internal Revenue Service in which the Participant makes such election.
6.
Section 83(b) Election
.
           The Company shall not be required to deliver any certificate representing the Shares until it has been furnished with such opinions, representations or other documents as it may deem necessary or desirable, in its discretion, to insure compliance with any law or Rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other governmental authority having jurisdiction under the Plan or over the Company, the Participant, or the Shares or any interests granted thereunder.   This award of Restricted Stock is also subject to the condition that, if at any time the Committee administering the Plan shall determine, in its discretion, that the listing, registration or qualification of the Shares (or any capital stock distributed thereon) upon the  New York Stock Exchange, any other securities exchange, the NASDAQ Stock Market or under any state or Federal law or other applicable Rule, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body, is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of this award of Restricted Stock or the issue of the Shares (or the issue of any dividends or other distributions related to the Shares), the Shares (and any dividends or other distributions related thereto) may not be transferred unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained to the complete satisfaction of the Committee and free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee.
7.
General Restrictions on Issuance of Stock Certificates
.
           Except for the dividend and distribution restrictions described below, and the transfer and other restrictions set forth elsewhere in this Agreement and in the Plan, the Participant, as record holder of the Shares, shall possess all the rights of a holder of the Company's Class A Stock, including voting, dividend and other distribution rights, provided, however, that prior to vesting, the certificates representing the Shares, as well as any dividends or other distributions with respect to such Shares, shall be held by the Company for the benefit of the Participant.  Any distributions with respect to the Shares in the form of capital stock shall be treated as Restricted Stock in the same manner as the Shares.  If the underlying Shares do not vest, then any capital stock distributed with respect to the Shares, as well as any other dividends or other distributions with respect to such Shares, shall be forfeited to the Company.  The Participant agrees to deliver to the Company a stock power executed in blank covering the Shares (and covering any capital stock distributed with respect to such Shares) which shall be returned to Participant with the appropriate stock certificate when the Shares represented thereby vest.  The stock power with respect to any certificate representing Shares which do not vest shall be completed in the name of the Company by an officer of the Company and returned to the treasury.
8.
Rights as Shareholder
.
           As provided by the Plan, in the event of any change in the Class A Stock of the Company by reason of any stock dividend, stock split, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, combination, or exchange of shares, or rights offering to purchase Class A Stock at a price substantially below fair market value, or of any similar change affecting the Class A Stock, the Shares shall be adjusted automatically consistent with such change to prevent substantial dilution or enlargement of the right s granted to, or available for, the Participant hereunder.
9.
Adjustment of Shares
.
         The Participant acknowledges that he has previously received a copy of the Plan and agrees to be bound by all of the terms and provisions thereof, including any which may conflict with those contained in this Agreement.  Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not otherwise defined shall have the meaning given to such terms under the Plan.
10.
Coordination With Plan
.
         All notices to the Company shall be in writing and sent to the Company's General Counsel at the Company's offices located at 207 High Point Drive, Building 100, Victor, New York 14564.  Notices to the Participant shall be addressed to the Participant at __________________________.
11.
Notices
.
 
 
 
the Company and the Participant have caused this Restricted Stock Agreement to be executed on the date set forth opposite their respective signatures, it being further understood that the Date of Grant may differ from the date of signature.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
                                                             
 

Exhibit 99.3
  Constellation
[LOGO]
NEWS RELEASE
04
 
 Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR), the worlds leading wine company, announced today that its board of directors has elected Jerry Fowden, 53, to fill a board vacancy effective May 1, 2010. Fowden is chief executive officer (CEO) of Cott Corporation, a private label non-alcoholic beverage manufacturer.  Fowden has years of leadership experience serving in a variety of roles with Trader Media Group, ABInBev, Bass Brewers and Pepsi Cola International, among others.
VICTOR, N.Y., April 21, 2010
 
We are very pleased to welcome Jerry to the board of directors and believe his experience across a number of industries, including beverage alcohol, will provide excellent guidance and we look forward to the contributions he will make to the organization, said Constellations Chairman of the Board Richard Sands.
Fowden joined Cott Corporation in 2007 and served in the companys international operating segments. He was named CEO in 2009. Prior to joining Cott, he managed European geographies for InBev, now ABInBev. Fowden resides in Tampa, Fla.
About Constellation Brands
Constellation Brands is the worlds leading wine company that achieves success through an unmatched knowledge of wine consumers, storied brands that suit varied lives and tastes and talented employees world-wide. With a broad portfolio of widely admired premium products across the wine, beer and spirits categories, Constellations brand portfolio includes Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Clos du Bois, Blackstone, Arbor Mist, Estancia, Ravenswood, Jackson-Triggs, Kim Crawford, Corona Extra, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and SVEDKA Vodka.
Constellation Brands (NYSE: STZ and STZ.B; ASX: CBR) is an S&P 500 Index and Fortune 1000 company with more than 100 total brands in our portfolio, sales in about 150 countries and operations in approximately 45 facilities. The company believes that industry leadership involves a commitment to our brands, to the trade, to the land, to investors and to different people around the world
 
-more-
 
 
 
-2-
.
who turn to our products when celebrating big moments or enjoying quiet ones. We express this commitment through our vision: to elevate life with every glass raised. To learn more about Constellation visit the company's web site at
www.cbrands.com
 
 


