FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20101201131941.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
The calculation period under Constellation Brands, Inc.s (Constellations) previously announced accelerated stock buyback transaction was completed on November 24, 2010 and, on November 30, 2010, Constellation received the remaining number of shares which it was entitled to receive under that transaction.  On December 1, 2010, Constellation issued a news release announcing the completion of such transaction.  A copy of such release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
References to Constellations website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference.  The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD.  This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the in formation incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
[LOGO]  
Constellation
NEWS RELEASE
15
 
 Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ), the worlds leading wine company, today announced it has completed its $300 million accelerated stock buyback (ASB) transaction which was announced in April 2010.
VICTOR, N.Y., Dec. 1, 2010
 
Under the transaction, the company paid $300 million in April 2010 and received a total of 17.2 million shares. Of the total amount, 13.8 million shares were received in the companys first quarter with the remaining shares received on November 30.
th
 
 Our strong free cash flow generation has enabled the company to repay debt, fund the stock buyback transaction and targets us to reduce our leverage ratio by year end, said Bob Ryder, chief financial officer, Constellation Brands. We currently estimate this transaction will generate about $0.09 of diluted earnings per share accretion for fiscal 2011.
About Constellation Brands
Constellation Brands is the worlds leading wine company that achieves success through an unmatched knowledge of wine consumers, storied brands that suit varied lives and tastes, and talented employees worldwide. With a broad portfolio of widely admired premium products across the wine, beer and spirits categories, Constellations brand portfolio includes Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Clos du Bois, Blackstone, Arbor Mist, Estancia, Ravenswood, Jackson-Triggs, Kim Crawford, Corona Extra, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and SVEDKA Vodka.
Constellation Brands (NYSE: STZ and STZ.B) is an S&P 500 Index and Fortune 1000 company with more than 100 brands in our portfolio, sales in about 150 countries and operations at more than 40 facilities. The company believes that industry leadership involves a commitment to our
brands, to the trade, to the land, to investors and to different people around the world who turn to our
products when celebrating big moments or enjoying quiet ones. We express this commitment through our vision: to elevate life with every glass raised. To learn more about Constellation, visit the company's web site at .
www.cbrands.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements.  The words anticipate, intend, and expect and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain such identifying words.  These statements may relate to business strategy, future operations, prospects, 
plans and objectives of management, as well as information concerning expected actions of third parties.  All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in, or implied by, such forward-looking statements.  Con stellations actual diluted earnings per share accretion for fiscal 2011 from the ASB transaction will be determined by its actual results of operations.
 
 


