FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20101228172958.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
          Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
          Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
          Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
          Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
     On December 23, 2010, Constellation Brands, Inc. ("Constellation"), Vincor U.K. Limited ("VUK"), CBI Australia Holdings Pty Limited ("CAHL") and various entities affiliated with CHAMP Private Equity ("CHAMP"), a private equity firm based in Sydney, Australia, entered into a Share Subscription Agreement (the "Share Subscription Agreement"), pursuant to which CHAMP agreed to subscribe for shares in VUK and in CAHL (the "Transaction"). VUK and CAHL are indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of Constellation. Pursuant to the Share Subscription Agreement, CHAMP will acquire an 80.1% interest in VUK and in CAHL which, at the time of completion of the Transaction, will hold virtually all Constellation's United Kingdom, Australian, and South African brands, wineries, facilities, and vineyards, its Japanese interests, as well as Constellation's 50% interest in Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited, which owns and operates a United Kingdom drinks wholesale business. Constellation will retain a 19.9% interest in each of VUK and CAHL and a limited number of Australian brands and vineyards. In connection with the Transaction, Constellation will receive cash in an amount equivalent to approximately AUD$230 million, subject to certain adjustments. The Transaction is subject to customary and routine closing conditions.
     The Share Subscription Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants for a transaction of this type. The representations, warranties and covenants contained in the Share Subscription Agreement are made by the parties solely for the benefit of each other and should not be relied upon by any other person. Consummation of the Transaction is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including certain governmental and regulatory conditions having been satisfied. The parties expect to complete the Transaction by January 31, 2011.
     The foregoing description of the Share Subscription Agreement and the Transaction does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Share Subscription Agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 2.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
     On December 23, 2010, Constellation issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, announcing Constellation's entry into the Share Subscription Agreement with respect to the Transaction.
     Constellation and CHAMP are entering into investment deeds to govern their rights and obligations as shareholders in VUK and in CAHL. It is also contemplated that Constellation and CHAMP will work together to distribute and supply each other's products on a global basis following completion of the Transaction and will enter into distribution agreements to facilitate those arrangements. In addition, it is expected that the parties will provide one another certain temporary transition services following completion of the Transaction.
     References to Constellation's website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference. The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD. This information is "furnished" and not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
Share subscription agreement
Constellation Brands, Inc.
CBI
Vincor U.K. Limited
Vincor U.K.
CBI Australia Holdings Pty Limited
CBI Australia
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as trustee of the CHAMP Buyout III Trust
CHAMP III Australia
Perpetual Corporate Trust Limited as trustee of the CHAMP Buyout III (SWF) Trust
CHAMP III SWF
CHAMP Buyout III Pte Ltd
CHAMP III Singapore
Canopus Holdco Limited
CHAMP III Cayman
Clayton Utz Lawyers Levels 19-35 No. 1 O'Connell Street Sydney NSW 2000 Australia PO Box H3 Australia Square Sydney NSW 1215 T +61 2 9353 4000 F +61 2 8220 6700
www.claytonutz.com
 
Contents
i  
 
ii  
 
iii  
 
Schedule 1 Companies and New Shares
Schedule 2 Details of the Companies
Schedule 3 Details of the Subsidiaries
Schedule 4 Brand Business
Schedule 5 Real Property
Schedule 6 Encumbrances and Guarantees
iv  
 
Schedule 7 Warranties
Schedule 8 Subscribers Warranties
Schedule 9 Material Contracts
Schedule 10 Completion Balance Sheet
Schedule 11 Assets Held For Sale
Schedule 12 Meritus Retained Assets
Schedule 13 Pension Plans
Schedule 14 Indemnity
Schedule 15 Supply Agreement
Schedule 16 Barossa Valley Estate Indemnity
Schedule 17 Term Sheets
Attachment 1 Disclosure Letter
Attachment 2 Index of Due Diligence Materials
Attachment 3 Due diligence questions and answers
Attachment 4 Equity Commitment Letter
Exhibit 1 Scott Wilson Geotechnical Report
v
 
Share subscription agreement dated 23 December 2010
Background
Operative provisions
 
1
 
2
 
3
 
4
 
5
 
6
 
7
 
8
 
9
 
10
 
11
 
12
 
13
 
14
 
15
 
16
 
17
 
 
18
 
19
 
     
 
     
 
20
 
 
21
 
22
 
     
 
23
 
24
 
25
 
26
 
27
 
 
28
 
29
 
30
 
31
 
 
32
 
33
 
 
34
 
 
35
 
 
36
 
 
37
 
38
 
 
39
 
 
 
 
 
40
 
41
 
42
 
43
 
44
 
45
 
 
46
 
47
 
 
48
 
49
 
50
 
51
 
 
52
 
53
 
 
54
 
 
 
55
 
 
56
 
 
57
 
 
58
 
 
59
 
60
 
 
61
 
62
 
 
 
63
 
64
 
 
Each Company irrevocably appoints as its agent in Australia for service of process.
l
65
 
Executed as an agreement.
66
 
67
 
68
 
Schedule 7 Warranties
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule 8 Subscribers Warranties
 
 
 
The Registrant has omitted from this filing the Schedules, Attachments and Exhibit listed below. The Registrant will furnish supplementally to the Securities and Exchange Commission, upon request, a copy of such Schedules, Attachments and Exhibit.

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
17
      Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ), the world's leading premium wine company, announced today it has signed an agreement to sell its Australian and U.K. business, (Constellation Wines Australia and Europe, CWAE), to CHAMP Private Equity (CHAMP) of Sydney, Australia. The transaction is valued at approximately A$290 million. The company will retain an approximate 20 percent interest in the business and receive cash proceeds of about $230 million, subject to closing adjustments. The transaction, which is expected to close by the end of January 2011, is subject to customary and routine closing conditions. The transaction includes virtually all Constellation's Australian, U.K., and South African brands, wineries, facilities, vineyards, and the company's 50 percent interest in Matthew Clark, the U.K. wholesale joint venture. All CWAE employees will transfer with the business.
VICTOR, N.Y., Dec. 23, 2010
     "During the last two years, Constellation has implemented a strategy focused on driving profitable organic growth through premiumizing its world class brand portfolio and improving margins, return on invested capital and free cash flow," said Rob Sands, president and chief executive officer, Constellation Brands. "The CWAE business sells quality wines from the important Australian appellation and has significant scale, but continues to be faced with challenging market conditions. Therefore, the business is no longer consistent with Constellation's strategy. We believe CHAMP has the requisite skills and motivation necessary for accelerating the success of the CWAE group."
 
     Constellation remains committed to growing its international business and continuing to invest in and drive its premium wine portfolio around the world. In addition to its operations in Canada and New Zealand, the Constellation Wines International organization will increase its focus on selling the company's premium wine portfolio around the world. Constellation and CHAMP will work together to distribute and supply each other's products globally.
     Constellation expects that net proceeds will be used to reduce borrowings. Any after-tax gain or loss recognized in connection with this transaction will be excluded from the company's comparable basis diluted earnings per share (EPS). The impact of this transaction is expected to be neutral to ongoing reported basis and comparable basis diluted EPS for fiscal 2011 and neutral to slightly dilutive for fiscal 2012.
     "CHAMP is committed to supporting management in building a competitive and profitable business in the Australian and U.K. markets and will invest to grow the business," said CHAMP Managing Director, John Haddock.
     "I extend my sincerest appreciation to the talented CWAE employees for their outstanding efforts over the years, in particular for producing some of the best Australian wines and maintaining a leadership position in the U.K., the #1 wine import market," Sands said.
About Constellation Brands
     Constellation Brands is the world's leading premium wine company that achieves success through an unmatched knowledge of wine consumers, storied brands that suit varied lives and tastes, and talented employees worldwide. With a broad portfolio of widely admired premium products across the wine, beer and spirits categories, Constellation's brand portfolio includes Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Clos du Bois, Blackstone, Arbor Mist, Estancia, Ravenswood, Jackson-Triggs, Kim Crawford, Corona Extra, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and SVEDKA Vodka.
     Constellation Brands (NYSE: STZ and STZ.B) is a S&P 500 Index and Fortune 1000 company with more than 100 brands in our portfolio, sales in about 150 countries and operations at more than 40 facilities. The company believes that industry leadership involves a commitment to our brands, to the trade, to the land, to investors and to different people around the world who turn to our products when celebrating big moments or enjoying quiet ones. We express this commitment through our vision: to elevate life with every glass raised. To learn more about Constellation, visit the company's web site at .
www.cbrands.com
About CHAMP Private Equity
     The CHAMP group has offices in Sydney and Brisbane, Australia and affiliated offices in Singapore and New York, giving it an unrivalled reach amongst Australian based peers. This allows it to identify both Australian and cross border investments, as well as seeking international growth opportunities for existing investee companies.
 
     Since inception in 1987, CHAMP and its predecessor funds have invested in more than 70 private equity investments across a broad range of sectors, including media, transport, industrial services, education, retail, agribusiness, health and financial services. Successfully exited investments include companies such as Austar Communications, United Malt Holdings, Study Group and Bradken. Current CHAMP investments include Manassen Foods, Centric Wealth, Alleasing, Golding Contractors, LCR Group and International Energy Services.
     The investment philosophy at CHAMP is value creation through earnings growth. Prudent leverage is a factor in the business model, however, the real driver of value creation is sustainable earnings growth based on superior management and investment in growth initiatives.
Forward-Looking Statements
     This news release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical facts set forth in this news release regarding Constellation's business strategy, future operations, financial position, estimated revenues, projected costs, prospects, plans and objectives of management, as well as information concerning expected actions of third parties, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond Constellation's control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in, or implied by, such forward-looking statements. Some of these risks and uncertainties include factors relating to Constellation's ability to consummate the transaction with CHAMP Private Equity. There can be no assurance that any transaction between Constellation and CHAMP Private Equity will occur, or will occur on the timetable contemplated hereby. Although Constellation believes the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, Constellation can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this news release. Constellation undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination, divestiture, restructuring or other strategic business realignments or financing that may be completed after the date of this release. The forward-looking statements should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that they will in fact occur. For additional information about risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect Constellation's forward-looking statements, please refer to Constellation's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Feb. 28, 2010. The factors discussed in these reports could cause actual future performance to differ from current expectations.


