FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20100408104706.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 7, 2010, Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, announcing that it and Australian Vintage Ltd (AVL) have ended discussions for the potential combination of a portion of Constellations Australian and United Kingdom wine operations with AVL.
References to Constellations website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference.  The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD.  This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the in formation incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
  Constellation
[LOGO]
NEWS RELEASE
02
 
 
 Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR), the worlds leading wine company, today announced that it and Australian Vintage Ltd (AVL) have ended discussions for the potential combination of a portion of Constellations Australian and U.K. wine operations with AVL.
VICTOR, N.Y., April 7, 2010
 
Constellations President and CEO Rob Sands said, There were a number of goals both parties were attempting to accomplish through the combination. Over time, it became evident that despite both parties best efforts we were not going to be successful in accomplishing all these goals. Therefore, we mutually decided it was in the best interest of Constellation and AVL to discontinue our discussions and focus on our respective businesses.
Constellation plans to continue to operate its Australian and U.K. businesses with a focus on achieving stronger results by increasing efficiencies, reducing costs and improving cash generation.  
About Constellation Brands
Constellation Brands is the worlds leading wine company that achieves success through an unmatched knowledge of wine consumers, storied brands that suit varied lives and tastes and talented employees world-wide. With a broad portfolio of widely admired premium products across the wine, beer and spirits categories, Constellations brand portfolio includes Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Clos du Bois, Blackstone, Arbor Mist, Estancia, Ravenswood, Jackson-Triggs, Kim Crawford, Corona Extra, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and SVEDKA Vodka.
Constellation Brands (NYSE: STZ and STZ.B; ASX: CBR) is an S&P 500 Index and Fortune 1000 company with more than 100 total brands in our portfolio, sales in about 150 countries and operations in approximately 45 facilities. The company believes that industry leadership involves a commitment to our brands, to the trade, to the land, to investors and to different people around the world who turn to our products when celebrating big moments or enjoying quiet ones. We express this commitment through our vision: to elevate life with every glass raised. To learn more about Constellation
-more-
 
 
 
Brands and its product portfolio visit the company's web site at .
www.cbrands.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements.  The words plan, intend, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain such identifying words.  These statements may relate to Constellations business strategy, future operations, prospects, plans and objectives of management, as well as information concerning expected actions of third parties.  All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in, or implied by, such forward-looking statements.   
All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this news release.  Constellation can give no assurance that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements will prove to be correct  and undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 In addition to risks associated with ordinary business operations, the forward-looking statements contained in this news release are subject to other risks and uncertainties, including other factors and uncertainties disclosed from time to time in the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Feb. 28, 2009, which could cause actual future performance to differ from current expectations.


