FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20100701082748.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
On July 1, 2010, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company), a Delaware corporation, issued a news release (the release) announcing its financial condition and results of operations as of and for the first fiscal quarter ended May 31, 2010. A copy of the release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The projections constituting the guidance included in the release involve risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at this time and, therefore, actual results may vary materially from these forecasts. In this regard, see the information included in the release under the caption Forward-Looking Statements.
 
The information in the release is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Such information may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
The release contains non-GAAP financial measures; in the release these are referred to as comparable, organic or constant currency measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
Comparable measures, organic net sales measures and constant currency measures are provided because management uses this information in monitoring and evaluating the results and underlying business trends of the continuing operations of the Company and/or in internal goal setting. In addition, the Company believes this information provides investors a better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance. As such, the following items, including any related income tax effect, are excluded from comparable results, when appropriate: the flow through of inventory step-up associated with acquisitions; accelerated depreciation in connection with certain restructuring activities; the write-down of inventory in connection with certain restructuring activities, the disposal of a business and other items; other costs incurred in connection with certain restructuring and/or integration activities; losses and/or gains in connection with the disposal of businesses and/or assets, including assets held for sale; a loss on the contractual obligation created by the notification by the 9.9% shareholder of Ruffino S.r.l. (Ruffino) to exercise the option to put its entire equity interest in Ruffino to the Company for a specified minimum value; impairments of certain intangible assets; restructuring charges; acquisition-related integration costs; the impairments of an equity method investment; loss on write-off of financing costs; and a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets in the United Kingdom. The Company sold certain value spirits brands on March 24, 2009, and sold its United Kingdom cider business on January 15, 2010. Accordingly, during the indicated period, organic net sales measures exclude certain spirits production service contracts, certain value spirits brands and/or cider, as appropriate. Constant currency measures exclude the impact of year over year currency exchange rate fluctuations.
 
 
 
On July 1, 2010, Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
References to Constellations website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference. The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD. This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
NEWS RELEASE
07
 Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, ASX: CBR), the worlds leading wine company, reported today its first quarter fiscal 2011 results.
VICTOR
, N.Y.,
July 1
, 20
10
 
 "I am pleased with our first quarter results that are in line with our expectations, said Rob Sands, president and chief executive officer,
 
 
 
 
-2-
 
Constellation Brands. We are beginning to see benefits from our focus on profitable organic growth. Our U.S. distributor initiative gained traction in the first quarter as we experienced improved results at retail. We also increased brand investments and promotional activities and launched several new products, all of which drove an improvement in depletion trends. Examples of new products introduced during the quarter include blfeld German riesling, Black Box malbec, Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi brut sparkling wine and the Arbor Mist White Pear pinot grigio.
 
 
*Definitions of reported, comparable, organic and constant currency, as well as reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures, are contained elsewhere in this news release.
** Hereafter referred to as equity earnings.
NM=Not meaningful; NA=Not applicable
 
Net Sales Commentary
 
Reported consolidated net sales decreased one percent due primarily to the divestitures of the U.K. cider and value spirits businesses partially offset by the favorable impact of year-over-year currency exchange rate fluctuations.
 
Consolidated wine organic net sales on a constant currency basis decreased one percent. North America wine net sales on a constant currency basis decreased two percent as a slight increase in volume was more than offset by higher promotion costs. Australia and Europe wine net sales on an organic constant currency basis increased one percent versus the prior year first quarter.
 
Total spirits organic net sales increased 28 percent for the quarter, led by a 40 percent gain for SVEDKA vodka. Our first ever SVEDKA television advertising campaign which asks consumers R.U. bot or not? generates excitement around this phenomenal vodka brand, said Sands. The
 
 
 
 
 
-3-
 
unique campaign featuring the SVEDKA fembot continues to resonate well with consumers.
 
Operating Income, Net Income, Diluted EPS Commentary
 
The consolidated comparable basis operating income decline was primarily driven by a $15 million decrease in the North America wine segment due primarily to higher promotion spending.
 
Constellations equity earnings from its 50 percent interest in the Crown Imports joint venture totaled $54 million, a decrease of 14 percent from the prior year first quarter.  For first quarter 2011, Crown generated net sales of $622 million, a decrease of three percent, and operating income of $109 million, a decrease of 14 percent. Net sales for Crown were impacted primarily by higher promotions, unfavorable mix and lower volume. Operating income for Crown decreased primarily due to timing of promotional and marketing investments, a contractual product cost increase, unfavorable mix and lower volume.
 
After successfully executing the Cinco de Mayo holiday programming and kicking off promotions tied to World Cup Soccer, Crown launched its largest promotion ever with the Win A Beach Getaway. This summer consumer sweepstakes event is the first time that Crown has fully integrated television advertising, packaging and promotional displays in both on and off premise channels, said Sands. We believe these programs and other activities helped to drive positive depletion growth during the quarter.
 
For first quarter 2011, pre-tax restructuring charges and unusual items totaled $7 million compared to $40 million for the prior year first quarter.
 
Interest expense totaled $49 million, a decrease of 29 percent. The decrease was primarily due to lower average interest rates and borrowings during the quarter.
 
The comparable basis effective tax rate for the quarter was 24 percent which reflects the favorable outcome of various tax items and compares to a 39 percent rate for the prior year first quarter. The company continues to anticipate a full year comparable basis effective tax rate of 35 percent.
The reported basis effective tax rate for the quarter reflects a $0.13 diluted EPS charge associated with a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets in the
U.K.
 
 
 
 
 
-4-
 
Common Stock Repurchase
 
On April 16, 2010, the company entered into a $300 million accelerated stock buyback (ASB) transaction. During the first quarter, the company received 13.8 million shares of Class A Common Stock, representing the minimum number of shares that will be received under the ASB transaction. The final number of shares to be received under the ASB transaction will be determined at the close of the transaction. The company used its revolving credit facility to fund the ASB transaction.
 
For fiscal 2011, the company anticipates generating strong free cash flow in the range of $350-$400 million, said Bob Ryder, chief financial officer, Constellation Brands. While we plan to continue to pay down debt in fiscal 2011, we have redeployed a portion of free cash flow to repurchase stock as we believe Constellation shares represent good value. We are increasing our EPS guidance by $0.10 to reflect the estimated benefit of the stock buyback.
 
Summary
 
The first quarter represents a solid start to the year, said Sands. We are on track to achieve our strategic and financial goals, the most important of which is to drive profitable organic growth. While macroeconomic and competitive challenges persist, we are encouraged by improving market trends in our U.S. wine and beer businesses.
 
 
Outlook
 
The table below sets forth managements current diluted EPS expectations for fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010 actual results, both on a reported basis and a comparable basis.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-5-
 
Full-year fiscal 2011 guidance includes the following current assumptions:
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call
 
A conference call to discuss first quarter fiscal 2011 results and outlook will be hosted by President and Chief Executive Officer Rob Sands and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Bob Ryder on Thursday, July 1, 2010 at 10:30 a.m. (eastern).  The conference call can be accessed by dialing +973-935-8505 beginning 10 minutes prior to the start of the call.  A live listen-only webcast of the conference call, together with a copy of this news release (including the attachments) and other financial information that may be discussed in the call will be available on the Internet at Constellations Web site: www.cbrands.com under Investors, prior to the call.
 
Explanations
 
Reported basis (reported) operating income, net income and diluted EPS are as reported under generally accepted accounting principles.  Operating income, net income and diluted EPS on a comparable basis (comparable), exclude restructuring charges and unusual items.  The companys measure of segment profitability excludes restructuring charges and unusual items, which is consistent with the measure used by management to evaluate results.
 
The company discusses additional non-GAAP measures in this news release, including constant currency net sales, organic net sales, comparable basis EBIT and free cash flow.
 
Tables reconciling non-GAAP measures, together with definitions of these measures and the reasons management uses these measures, are included in this news release.
 
 
 
 
 
-6-
 
About Constellation Brands
 
Constellation Brands is the worlds leading wine company that achieves success through
an unmatched knowledge of wine consumers, storied brands that suit varied lives and tastes, and
talented employees worldwide. With a broad portfolio of widely admired premium products across the wine, beer and spirits categories, Constellations brand portfolio includes Robert Mondavi, Hardys, Clos du Bois, Blackstone, Arbor Mist, Estancia, Ravenswood, Jackson-Triggs, Kim Crawford, Corona Extra, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and SVEDKA Vodka.
 
Constellation Brands (NYSE: STZ and STZ.B; ASX: CBR) is an S&P 500 Index and Fortune 1000 company with more than 100 brands in our portfolio, sales in about 150 countries and operations at more than 40 facilities. The company believes that industry leadership involves a commitment to our brands, to the trade, to the land, to investors and to different people around the world who turn to our products when celebrating big moments or enjoying quiet ones. We express this commitment through our vision: to elevate life with every glass raised. To learn more about Constellation, visit the company's web site at www.cbrands.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The statements made under the heading Outlook, and all statements other than statements of historical facts set forth in this news release regarding Constellations business strategy, future operations, financial position, estimated revenues, projected costs, prospects, plans and objectives of management, as well as information concerning expected actions of third parties, are forward-looking statements (collectively, the Projections) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the Projections.
 
During the current quarter, Constellation may reiterate the Projections.  Prior to the start of the company's quiet period, which will begin at the close of business on August 31, 2010, the public can continue to rely on the Projections as still being Constellation's current expectations on the matters covered, unless Constellation publishes a notice stating otherwise.  During Constellations quiet period, the Projections should not be considered to constitute the companys expectations and should be considered historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet period only and not subject to update by the company.
 
The Projections are based on management's current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination, divestiture, restructuring or other strategic business realignments, financing or share repurchase that may be completed after the date of this release. The Projections should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur.
 
In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the Projections of the company contained in this news release are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-7-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8  
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in millions)
 
 
 
9
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
10
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in millions)
 
 
 
11  
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
SUMMARIZED SEGMENT AND EQUITY EARNINGS INFORMATION
(in millions)
 
 
 
12
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATION OF REPORTED, ORGANIC AND CONSTANT CURRENCY NET SALES
(in millions)
As the company sold certain spirits value brands and contract production services on March 24, 2009, and sold its U.K. cider business on January 15, 2010, organic net sales for the three months ended May 31, 2009, are defined by the company as reported net sales less net sales of certain spirits value brands and contract production services and/or net sales of cider. Organic net sales and percentage increase (decrease) in constant currency net sales (which excludes the impact of year over year currency exchange rate fluctuations) are provided because management uses this information in monitoring and evaluating the underlying business trends of the continuing operations of the company. In addition, the company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.
(1) May not sum due to rounding as each item is computed independently.
(2) For the period March 1, 2009, through March 24, 2009, included in the three months ended May 31, 2009.
(3) For the period March 1, 2009, through May 31, 2009, included in the three months ended May 31, 2009.
 
 
 
13
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(1)
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
14  
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)
NOTES
 
DEFINITIONS
Global Initiative
The company's plan announced in April 2009 to simplify its business, increase efficiencies and reduce its cost structure on a global basis (the "Global Initiative").
Australian Initiative
The company's plan announced in August 2008 to sell certain assets and implement operational changes designed to improve the efficiencies and returns associated with its Australian business (the "Australian Initiative").
Fiscal 2008 Plan
The company's plan announced in November 2007 to streamline certain of its international operations, primarily in Australia; certain other restructuring charges incurred during the third quarter of fiscal 2008 in connection with the consolidation of certain spirits production processes in the U.S.; and its plan announced in January 2008 to streamline certain of its operations in the U.S., primarily in connection with the restructuring and integration of the operations of Beam Wine Estates, Inc. (collectively, the "Fiscal 2008 Plan").
Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan
The company's plan announced in August 2006 to invest in new distribution and bottling facilities in the U.K. and to streamline certain Australian wine operations (collectively, the "Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan").
 
 
 
15  
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)
GUIDANCE - - DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE AND FREE CASH FLOW
(in millions, except per share data)
Free Cash Flow Guidance
Free cash flow, as defined in the reconciliation below, is considered a liquidity measure and is considered to provide useful information to investors about the amount of cash generated, which can then be used, after required debt service and dividend payments, for other general corporate purposes.  A limitation of free cash flow is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period.  Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, cash flow from operating activities prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 


