FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20100723130829.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)           The Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the Annual Meeting) of Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company) was held on July 22, 2010.
(b)
   
At the Annual Meeting, the stockholders of the Company elected Jerry Fowden, Barry A. Fromberg, Jeananne K. Hauswald, James A. Locke III, Richard Sands, Robert Sands, Paul L. Smith and Mark Zupan as directors of the Company to serve until the next Annual Meeting and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.  The only other matter considered at the Annual Meeting was a proposal to ratify the selection of KPMG LLP as the Companys independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending February 28, 2011.  The final results of voting on each of the matters submitted to a vote of stockholders are as follows:
1.
 
   
.
Election of Directors
At the Annual Meeting, the holders of the Companys Class A Common Stock (the Class A Stock), voting as a separate class, elected the Companys slate of director nominees designated to be elected by the holders of the Class A Stock voting as a separate class, and the holders of Class A Stock and the Companys Class B Common Stock (the Class B Stock), voting together as a single class with holders of Class A Stock having one (1) vote per share and holders of Class B Stock having ten (10) votes per share, elected the Companys slate of director nominees designated to be elected by the holders of the Class A Stock and Class B Stock voting together as a single class.  The eight directors described in (a) above were elected by a plurality of the votes cast, as set forth below:
2.             .
Ratification of the selection of KPMG LLP as the Companys independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending February 28, 2011
At the Annual Meeting, the holders of Class A Stock and the holders of Class B Stock, voting together as a single class with holders of Class A Stock having one (1) vote per share and holders of Class B Stock having ten (10) votes per share, ratified the selection of KPMG LLP as the Companys independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending February 28, 2011, as set forth below:
 
 
 
 
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


