FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20110407085305.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 7, 2011, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company), a Delaware corporation, issued a news release (the release) announcing its financial condition and results of operations as of and for the fourth fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended February 28, 2011.  A copy of the release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.  The projections constituting the guidance included in the release involve risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at this time and, therefore, actual results may vary materially from these forecasts.  In this regard, see the information included in the release under the caption Forward-Looking Statements.
 
The information in the release is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Such information may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
The release contains non-GAAP financial measures; in the release these are referred to as comparable, organic or constant currency measures.  For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented.  In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Comparable measures, organic net sales measures and constant currency measures are provided because management uses this information in monitoring and evaluating the results and underlying business trends of the continuing operations of the Company and/or in internal goal setting.  In addition, the Company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year-over-year financial performance.  As such, the following items, including any related income tax effect, are excluded from comparable results, when appropriate:  the flow through of inventory step-up associated with acquisitions; accelerated depreciation in connection with certain restructuring activities; the write-down of inventory in connection with certain restructuring activities and the disposal of a business; other costs incurred in connection with certain restructuring and/or integration activities; losses and/or gains in connection with the disposal of businesses and/or assets, including assets held for sale; losses on contractual obligations created by notifications by shareholders of Ruffino S.r.l. (Ruffino) to exercise their respective option to put their entire equity interest in Ruffino to the Company; acquisition-related integration costs; impairments of certain intangible assets; restructuring charges; a loss in connection with an equity method investees disposal of a business; the impairment of an equity method investment; loss on write-off of financing costs; and a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets in the United Kingdom.  The Company sold certain value spirits brands and contract production services on March 24, 2009, sold its United Kingdom cider business on January 15, 2010, and sold 80.1% of its Australian and United Kingdom business on January 31, 2011.  Accordingly, during the indicated period, organic net sales measures exclude certain spirits production service contracts, certain value spirits brands, cider and/or net sales of the Australian and United Kingdom business together with net sales of the Constellation North American business previously sold through the Companys Australian and United Kingdom business, as appropriate.  Constant currency measures exclude the impact of year-over-year currency exchange rate fluctuations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 7, 2011, Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
References to Constellations website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference.  The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD.  This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS RELEASE
03
 
 
 
 
 
 Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ), the worlds leading premium wine company, reported today its fiscal 2011 results.
VICTOR, N.Y., April 7, 2011
 
"Fiscal 2011 marks another year of significant accomplishments as we successfully executed on several of our key strategic goals and business initiatives, said Rob Sands, president and chief executive officer. We are realizing the benefits from the implementation of our U.S. distributor initiative through improvements in depletion and consumer take-away trends. We generated record free cash flow, executed an accelerated stock buyback transaction and reduced debt by almost $600 million for the second consecutive year. Additionally, we sold our Australian and U.K. business as part of our efforts to further premiumize our portfolio, improve ROIC and generate profitable organic growth.
 
 
1
 
 
 
*Definitions of reported, comparable, organic and constant currency, as well as reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures, are contained elsewhere in this news release.
** Hereafter referred to as equity earnings.
NA=Not applicable
NM=Not meaningful
 
Fiscal 2011 Net Sales Commentary
 
Reported consolidated net sales decreased one percent due primarily to the divestitures of the U.K. cider and Australian and U.K. wine businesses. Organic net sales on a constant currency basis increased three percent versus the prior year.
 
 North America net sales on an organic constant currency basis increased four percent primarily due to a combination of U.S. volume growth and favorable U.S. product mix, partially offset by higher promotion cost. While the distributor initiative favorably impacted sales, depletions for our total U.S. domestic business increased three percent while depletions for our focus brands increased almost 10 percent, said Sands. For the 2010 calendar year, we maintained market share on a volume basis across all channels for the wine and spirits categories driven by strong performance of brands including Robert Mondavi, Clos du Bois, Estancia, Kim Crawford, Simi, Wild Horse and SVEDKA.
 
Australia and Europe net sales on an organic constant currency basis were level with the prior year.
 
 
2
 
 
Fiscal 2011 Operating Income and Net Income Commentary
 
The consolidated comparable basis operating income decline reflected investments in selling, general and administrative expense for the North America and Corporate segments. In addition, operating income for the Australia and Europe segment decreased primarily due to the January 2010 divestiture of the U.K. cider business.
 
Constellations equity earnings from its 50 percent interest in the Crown Imports joint venture totaled $226 million, an increase of two percent from the prior year.  For fiscal 2011, Crown generated net sales of $2.4 billion, an increase of six percent, and operating income of $453 million, an increase of two percent.  The net sales increase for Crown was driven by volume growth reflecting improvement in consumer demand and distributor inventories returning to more optimum levels. Operating income for Crown increased primarily due to the higher volume partially offset by a contractual cost increase and higher SG&A expense.
 
Throughout the year, Crown built positive momentum in a number of areas by launching new products and packaging configurations and executing key advertising programs. This resulted in Crown outperforming the industry and the import category overall, with depletions growing low- to mid-single digits for the year, commented Sands.
 
For fiscal 2011, pre-tax restructuring charges and unusual items totaled $32 million compared to $275 million for the prior year.
 
Interest expense totaled $195 million, a decrease of 26 percent. The decrease was due to lower average interest rates and borrowings.
 
The comparable basis effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 was 30 percent. The comparable basis effective tax rate for both periods reflects the favorable outcome of various tax items.
 
Constellation completed the sale of its Australian and U.K. business to CHAMP Private Equity on Jan. 31, 2011 in a transaction that was valued at approximately A$290 million. The company retained an approximate 20 percent interest in the business and received net cash proceeds of about $220 million, subject to post-closing adjustments.In connection with the sale, the company recorded a net pre-tax gain of $84 million and a net tax benefit of $198 million.
 
 
 
3
 
 
During fourth quarter 2011, the company recorded a charge of $60 million related to the potential settlement of the Ruffino put option by its majority shareholder.  During fiscal 2011, the company completed an accelerated stock buyback transaction under which it paid $300 million and received 17.2 million shares.
 
Free Cash Flow Commentary
 
Free cash flow for the year totaled $530 million. Our record free cash flow generation and proceeds from the sale of the Australian and U.K. business enabled the company to fund the accelerated stock buyback transaction, decrease debt by approximately $600 million and reduce our debt to comparable basis EBITDA ratio to the mid three times range at the end of the fiscal year, said Bob Ryder, chief financial officer, Constellation Brands. For fiscal 2012, the company is targeting free cash flow in the range of $600 to $650 million.
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
Fourth Quarter 2011 Net Sales Commentary
 
Reported consolidated net sales increased one percent as a 10 percent organic constant currency net sales increase was essentially offset by the divestitures of the Australian and U.K. wine business and the U.K. cider business.
 
North America net sales on an organic constant currency basis increased 14 percent due primarily to a combination of U.S. volume growth and favorable U.S. product mix. The fourth quarter fiscal 2010 net sales reflected the impact of inventory reductions at certain U.S. distributors.
 
Fourth Quarter
2011
Operating Income and Net Income Commentary
 
The consolidated comparable basis operating income increase was primarily driven by U.S. volume growth in the North America segment.
 
Constellations equity earnings from its 50 percent interest in the Crown Imports joint venture totaled $49 million, an increase of 18 percent from the prior year fourth quarter.  For fourth quarter 2011, Crown generated net sales of $480 million, an increase of 15 percent, and operating income of $97 million, an increase of 18 percent.  Net sales and operating income benefited primarily from volume growth.
 
For fourth quarter 2011, pre-tax restructuring charges and unusual items totaled $1 million compared to $125 million for the prior year fourth quarter.
 
Interest expense totaled $47 million, a decrease of 25 percent. The decrease was due to lower average interest rates and borrowings during the quarter.
 
The comparable basis effective tax rate for the quarter was 31 percent compared to negative 11 percent for the prior year fourth quarter. Both periods reflected the favorable outcome of various tax items.
 
Common Share Repurchase Authorization
 
Constellations Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of the companys common stock. The repurchase of shares may be accomplished from time to time, subject to market and other conditions.  While our near-term focus is on debt reduction, we believe it is important to have a share repurchase authorization in place to provide flexibility over a multi-year period as part of our ongoing evaluation of the optimal capital structure for our business, said Ryder.
 
 
5
 
 
Summary
 
We experienced a strong finish to a year where we invested in our business and began building momentum around our product portfolio to drive future growth. We are well positioned from a strategic, market, and financial perspective for the year ahead, said Sands. Our guidance for fiscal 2012 is being tempered by comparison impacts from the U.S. distributor initiative, incremental marketing investment at Crown and the divestiture of the Australian and U.K. business. However, we continue to target healthy underlying depletion and consumer trends for our business.
 
 
Outlook
 
The table below sets forth managements current diluted EPS expectations for fiscal year 2012 compared to fiscal year 2011 actual results, both on a reported basis and a comparable basis.
 
 
 
Full-year fiscal 2012 guidance includes the following current assumptions but excludes any impact from any repurchases of the companys common stock:
 
Conference Call
 
A conference call to discuss fourth quarter and full year fiscal 2011 results and fiscal outlook will be hosted by President and Chief Executive Officer Rob Sands and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Bob Ryder on Thurs., April 7, 2011 at 10:30 a.m. (eastern).  The conference call can be accessed by dialing +973-935-8505 beginning 10 minutes prior to the start of the call.  A live listen-only webcast of the conference call, together with a copy of this news release (including the attachments) and other financial information that may be discussed during the call will be available on the Internet at Constellations Web site: www.cbrands.com under Investors, prior to the call.
 
 
6
 
 
Explanations
 
Reported basis (reported) operating income, net income and diluted EPS are as reported under generally accepted accounting principles.  Operating income, net income and diluted EPS on a comparable basis (comparable), exclude restructuring charges and unusual items.  The companys measure of segment profitability excludes restructuring charges and unusual items, which is consistent with the measure used by management to evaluate results.
 
The company discusses additional non-GAAP measures in this news release, including constant currency net sales, organic net sales, comparable basis EBIT and free cash flow.
 
Supplemental Financial Information
 
Tables reconciling non-GAAP measures, together with definitions of these measures and the reasons management uses these measures, are attached to and are part of this news release.
 
About Constellation Brands
 
Constellation Brands is the worlds leading premium wine company that achieves success through an unmatched knowledge of wine consumers, storied brands that suit varied lives and tastes, and talented employees worldwide. With a broad portfolio of widely admired premium products across the wine, beer and spirits categories, Constellations brand portfolio includes Robert Mondavi, Clos du Bois, Blackstone, Arbor Mist, Estancia, Ravenswood, Jackson Triggs, Kim Crawford, Corona Extra, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and SVEDKA Vodka.
 
Constellation Brands (NYSE: STZ and STZ.B) is a S&P 500 Index and Fortune 1000 company with more than 100 brands in our portfolio, sales in about 125 countries and operations in approximately 30 facilities. The company believes that industry leadership involves a commitment to our brands, to the trade, to the land, to investors and to different people around the world who turn to our products when celebrating big moments or enjoying quiet ones. We express this commitment through our vision: to elevate life with every glass raised. To learn more about Constellation, visit the company's Web site at .
www.cbrands.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The statements made under the heading Outlook, and all statements other than statements of historical facts set forth in this news release regarding Constellations business strategy, future operations, financial position, estimated revenues, projected costs, prospects, plans and objectives of management, as well as information concerning expected actions of third parties, are forward-looking statements (collectively, the Projections) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the Projections.
 
 
7
 
 
During the current quarter, Constellation may reiterate the Projections.  Prior to the start of the company's quiet period, which will begin at the close of business on May 31, 2011, the public can continue to rely on the Projections as still being Constellation's current expectations on the matters covered, unless Constellation publishes a notice stating otherwise.  During Constellations quiet period, the Projections should not be considered to constitute the companys expectations and should be considered historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet period only and not subject to update by the company.
 
The Projections are based on management's current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination, divestiture, restructuring or other strategic business realignments, financing or share repurchase that may be completed after the date of this release. There can be no assurance that a settlement of matters relating to a put option in Ruffino S.r.l. will occur. The Projections should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur.
 
In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the Projections of the company contained in this news release are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in millions)
 
 
 
9
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
10
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in millions)
 
 
 
11
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATION OF REPORTED, ORGANIC AND CONSTANT CURRENCY NET SALES
(in millions)
 
As the company sold certain spirits value brands on March 24, 2009, sold its U.K. cider business on January 15, 2010, and sold 80.1% of its Australian and U.K. business on January 31, 2011, organic net sales for the respective periods are defined by the company as reported net sales less net sales of certain spirits value brands, net sales of U.K. cider and/or net sales of CWAE (as defined below), plus CWNA (as defined below) intercompany net sales to CWAE, as appropriate.  Organic net sales and percentage increase (decrease) in constant currency net sales (which excludes the impact of year-over-year currency exchange rate fluctuations) are provided because management uses this information in monitoring and evaluating the underlying business trends of the continuing operations of the company.  In addition, the company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year-over-year financial performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL SHIPMENT, DEPLETION AND U.S. FOCUS BRANDS INFORMATION
(in millions, branded product, 9 liter case equivalents)
 
 
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
SUMMARIZED SEGMENT AND EQUITY EARNINGS INFORMATION
(in millions)
 
 
NM Not Meaningful
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(1)
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
14
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(1)
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
15
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)
NOTES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DEFINITIONS
Global Initiative
The company's plan announced in April 2009 to simplify its business, increase efficiencies and reduce its cost structure on a global basis (the "Global Initiative").
 
Australian Initiative
The company's plan announced in August 2008 to sell certain assets and implement operational changes designed to improve the efficiencies and returns associated with its Australian business (the "Australian Initiative").
 
Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan
The company's plan announced in August 2006 to invest in new distribution and bottling facilities in the U.K. and to streamline certain Australian wine operations (collectively, the "Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan").
 
 
16
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)
GUIDANCE - DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE AND FREE CASH FLOW
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Free Cash Flow Guidance
 
Free cash flow, as defined in the reconciliation below, is considered a liquidity measure and is considered to provide useful information to investors about the amount of cash generated, which can then be used, after required debt service and dividend payments, for other general corporate purposes.  A limitation of free cash flow is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period.  Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, cash flow from operating activities prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
17
 


