FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20110106092121.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
On January 6, 2011, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company), a Delaware corporation, issued a news release (the release) announcing its financial condition and results of operations as of and for the third fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2010.  A copy of the release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.  The projections constituting the guidance included in the release involve risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at this time and, therefore, actual results may vary materially from these forecasts.  In this regard, see the information included in the release under the caption Forward-Looking Statements.
 
The information in the release is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Such information may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
The release contains non-GAAP financial measures; in the release these are referred to as comparable, organic or constant currency measures.  For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so cal culated and presented.  In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Comparable measures, organic net sales measures and constant currency measures are provided because management uses this information in monitoring and evaluating the results and underlying business trends of the continuing operations of the Company and/or in internal goal setting.  In addition, the Company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year over year financial performance.  As such, the following items, including any related income tax effect, are excluded from comparable results, when appropriate:  the flow through of inventory step-up associated with acquisitions; accelerated depreciation in connection with certain restructuring activities; the write-down of inventory in connection with certain restructuring activi ties and the disposal of a business; other costs incurred in connection with certain restructuring and/or integration activities; losses and/or gains in connection with the disposal of businesses and/or assets, including assets held for sale; a loss on the contractual obligation created by the notification by the 9.9% shareholder of Ruffino S.r.l. (Ruffino) to exercise the option to put its entire equity interest in Ruffino to the Company for a specified minimum value; acquisition-related integration costs; impairments of certain intangible assets; restructuring charges; a loss in connection with an equity method investees disposal of a business; the impairment of an equity method investment; loss on write-off of financing costs; and a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets in the United Kingdom.  The Company sold certain value spirits brands and contract production services on March 24, 2009, and sold its United Kingdom cider business on January 15, 2010.  A ccordingly, during the indicated period, organic net sales measures exclude certain spirits production service contracts, certain value spirits brands and/or cider, as appropriate.  Constant currency measures exclude the impact of year over year currency exchange rate fluctuations.
 
 
 
On January 6, 2011, Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
References to Constellations website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference.  The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD.  This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the in formation incorporated by reference herein.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
18
 Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ), the worlds leading premium wine company, reported today its third quarter fiscal 2011 results.
VICTOR, N.Y., Jan. 6, 2011
"Weve accomplished a great deal this year including the recently announced sale of our Australian and U.K. business. This is the right move for the company and positions us to better achieve the goals associated with our profitable organic growth strategy, said Rob Sands, president and chief executive officer. Our third quarter results demonstrate that our strategy is working. We are experiencing continued momentum from our U.S. distributor transition with positive depletion trends recorded during the quarter and we continue to reap the benefits from our diligent focus on free cash flow.
 
Page 1
 
 
*Definitions of reported, comparable, organic and constant currency, as well as reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures, are contained elsewhere in this news release.
** Hereafter referred to as equity earnings.
NA=Not applicable
NM=Not meaningful
Net Sales Commentary
Reported consolidated net sales decreased two percent due primarily to the divestiture of the U.K. cider business. Organic net sales on a constant currency basis were level with the prior year third quarter.
 North America wine net sales on a constant currency basis were even with the prior year quarter and reflected favorable product mix offset by a decrease in U.S. volume.  Total depletions for our U.S. wine business increased two percent while depletions for our focus brands, which represent the majority of our U.S. wine profitability, increased high single digits and include some of our well-known products such as Robert Mondavi, Blackstone, Estancia, Kim Crawford, Simi and Wild Horse, said Sands.
Australia and Europe wine net sales on an organic constant currency basis decreased one percent versus the prior year third quarter.
Total spirits organic net sales increased eight percent for the quarter, led by a 34 percent gain for SVEDKA Vodka. Continued investment in television advertising and events like the New York City Fashion Week have contributed to strong performance for SVEDKA with sales and depletions growing double digits on a fiscal year-to-date basis, said Sands.
 
Page 2
 
Operating Income and Net Income Commentary
The consolidated comparable basis operating income decline was primarily driven by a decrease in the North America wine segment which reflected investments in selling, general and administrative expense.
Constellations equity earnings from its 50 percent interest in the Crown Imports joint venture totaled $58 million, an increase of 27 percent from the prior year third quarter.  For third quarter 2011, Crown generated net sales of $612 million, an increase of 22 percent, and operating income of $116 million, an increase of 27 percent.  Net sales and operating income benefited primarily from volume growth.
During the third quarter, Crown was able to work with wholesalers to optimize inventory levels after experiencing supply chain challenges during the summer, said Sands. New advertising programs for Corona Extra and Corona Light during the fall sports season have continued to drive solid consumer engagement for these brands. In addition, Modelo Especial, one of the fastest growing beer brands, achieved another milestone by surpassing the 30 million case sales level on an annual basis. We believe these and other initiatives coupled with strong marketplace execution drove mid-single-digit depletion growth during the quarter.
For third quarter 2011, pre-tax restructuring charges and unusual items totaled $6 million compared to $81 million for the prior year third quarter.
Interest expense totaled $49 million, a decrease of 25 percent. The decrease was primarily due to lower average interest rates and borrowings during the quarter.
The comparable basis effective tax rate for the quarter was 29 percent compared to 35 percent for the prior year third quarter. The company now anticipates a full year comparable basis effective tax rate of 31 percent, which reflects the favorable outcome of various tax items.
Common Stock Repurchase
During the quarter, the company received the final installment of shares under its accelerated stock buyback (ASB) transaction of which it paid $300 million in April 2010 and received 17.2 million shares.  Of these shares, 13.8 million were received in the companys first quarter of fiscal 2011 and 3.4 million were received Nov. 30, 2010.
 
Page 3
 
The company increased its fiscal 2011 free cash flow target to a record level in the range of $475-$525 million. We continue to make progress in reducing our net working capital investment and we believe this years free cash flow generation is sustainable longer term, said Bob Ryder, chief financial officer, Constellation Brands. Our strong free cash flow generation has enabled the company to fund the stock buyback transaction and to repay debt. Additionally, the combination of strong free cash flow and expected proceeds from the sale of the Australian and U.K. business targets us to reduce our debt  to comparable basis EBITDA ratio to the high three times range by the end of the fiscal year.
Sale of Australian and U.K. Business
Constellation recently announced that it signed an agreement to sell its Australian and U.K. business to CHAMP Private Equity. The transaction is valued at approximately A$290 million. The company will retain an approximate 20 percent interest in the business and receive cash proceeds of about $230 million, subject to closing adjustments.The transaction, which is expected to close by the end of January 2011, is subject to customary and routine closing conditions.  Constellation expects the net proceeds will be used to reduce borrowings.
 
 
Summary
 
I am pleased with our strong marketplace execution this year, particularly for our U.S. wine and beer businesses. We are delivering on our strategic and financial plan and I am confident in our outlook for the remainder of the year, said Sands.
 
Outlook
The table below sets forth managements current diluted EPS expectations for fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010 actual results, both on a reported basis and a comparable basis.
 
Page 4
 
Full-year fiscal 2011 guidance, excluding the impact of the divestiture of the companys Australian and U.K. business discussed above includes the following current assumptions:
Conference Call
A conference call to discuss third quarter fiscal 2011 results and outlook will be hosted by President and Chief Executive Officer Rob Sands and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Bob Ryder on Thurs., Jan. 6, 2011 at 10:30 a.m. (eastern).  The conference call can be accessed by dialing +973-935-8505 beginning 10 minutes prior to the start of the call.  A live listen-only webcast of the conference call, together with a copy of this news release (including the attachments) and other financial information that may be discussed in the call will be available on the Internet at Constellations Web site: www.cbrands.com under Investors, prior to the call.
Explanations
Reported basis (reported) operating income, net income and diluted EPS are as reported under generally accepted accounting principles.  Operating income, net income and diluted EPS on a comparable basis (comparable), exclude restructuring charges and unusual items.  The companys measure of segment profitability excludes restructuring charges and unusual items, which is consistent with the measure used by management to evaluate results.
 
Page 5
 
The company discusses additional non-GAAP measures in this news release, including constant currency net sales, organic net sales, comparable basis EBIT and free cash flow.
 
Supplemental Financial Information
Tables reconciling non-GAAP measures, together with definitions of these measures and the reasons management uses these measures, are attached to and are part of this news release.
 
About Constellation Brands
Constellation Brands is the worlds leading premium wine company that achieves success through an unmatched knowledge of wine consumers, storied brands that suit varied lives and tastes, and talented employees worldwide. With a broad portfolio of widely admired premium products across the wine, beer and spirits categories, Constellations brand portfolio includes Robert Mondavi, Clos du Bois, Blackstone, Arbor Mist, Estancia, Ravenswood, Hardys, Jackson Triggs, Kim Crawford, Corona Extra, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and SVEDKA Vodka.
Constellation Brands (NYSE: STZ and STZ.B) is an S&P 500 Index and Fortune 1000 company with more than 100 brands in our portfolio, sales in about 150 countries and operations at more than 40 facilities. The company believes that industry leadership involves a commitment to our brands, to the trade, to the land, to investors and to different people around the world who turn to our products when celebrating big moments or enjoying quiet ones. We express this commitment through our vision: to elevate life with every glass raised. To learn more about Constellation, visit the company's web site at www.cbrands.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
The statements made under the heading Outlook, and all statements other than statements of historical facts set forth in this news release regarding Constellations business strategy, future operations, financial position, estimated revenues, projected costs, prospects, plans and objectives of management, as well as information concerning expected actions of third parties, are forward-looking statements (collectively, the Projections) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the Projections.
During the current quarter, Constellation may reiterate the Projections.  Prior to the start of the company's quiet period, which will begin at the close of business on Feb. 28, 2011, the public can continue to rely on the Projections as still being Constellation's current expectations on the matters covered, unless Constellation publishes a notice stating otherwise.  During Constellations quiet period, the Projections should not be considered to constitute the companys expectations and should be considered historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet period only and not subject to update by the company.
The Projections are based on management's current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination, divestiture, restructuring or other strategic business realignments, financing that may be completed after the date of this release. There can be no assurance that any transaction between Constellation and CHAMP Private Equity will occur or will occur on the timetable contemplated hereby. The Projections should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur.
In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the Projections of the company contained in this news release are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:
 
Page 6
 
 
Page 7
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in millions)
 
Page 8
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(in millions, except per share data)
 
Page 9
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in millions)
 
Page 10
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
SUMMARIZED SEGMENT AND EQUITY EARNINGS INFORMATION
(in millions)
 
Page 11
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATION OF REPORTED, ORGANIC AND CONSTANT CURRENCY NET SALES
(in millions)
As the company sold certain spirits value brands and contract production services on March 24, 2009, and sold its U.K. cider business on January 15, 2010, organic net sales for the respective periods are defined by the company as reported net sales less net sales of certain spirits value brands and contract production services and/or net sales of cider, as appropriate.  Organic net sales and percentage increase (decrease) in constant currency net sales (which excludes the impact of year over year currency exchange rate fluctuations) are provided because management uses this information in monitoring and evaluating the underlying business trends of the continuing operations of the company.  In addition, the company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in o rder to evaluate year over year financial performance.
 
Page 12
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(1)
(in millions, except per share data)
NM    Not Meaningful
 
Page 13
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(1)
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
Page 14
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)
NOTES
Global Initiative
The company's plan announced in April 2009 to simplify its business, increase efficiencies and reduce its cost structure on a global basis (the "Global Initiative").
Australian Initiative
The company's plan announced in August 2008 to sell certain assets and implement operational changes designed to improve the efficiencies and returns associated with its Australian business (the "Australian Initiative").
Fiscal 2008 Plan
The company's plan announced in November 2007 to streamline certain of its international operations, primarily in Australia; certain other restructuring charges incurred during the third quarter of fiscal 2008 in connection with the consolidation of certain spirits production processes in the U.S.; and its plan announced in January 2008 to streamline certain of its operations in the U.S., primarily in connection with the restructuring and integration of the operations of Beam Wine Estates, Inc. (collectively, the "Fiscal 2008 Plan").
Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan
The company's plan announced in August 2006 to invest in new distribution and bottling facilities in the U.K. and to streamline certain Australian wine operations (collectively, the "Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan").
 
Page 15
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)
GUIDANCE - DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE AND FREE CASH FLOW
(in millions, except per share data)
Free Cash Flow Guidance
Free cash flow, as defined in the reconciliation below, is considered a liquidity measure and is considered to provide useful information to investors about the amount of cash generated, which can then be used, after required debt service and dividend payments, for other general corporate purposes.  A limitation of free cash flow is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period.  Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, cash flow from operating activities prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
Page 16


