FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20111006085653.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On October 6, 2011, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company), a Delaware corporation, issued a news release (the release) announcing its financial condition and results of operations as of and for the second fiscal quarter ended August 31, 2011.  A copy of the release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.  The projections constituting the guidance included in the release involve risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at this time and, therefore, actual results may vary materially from these forecasts.  In this regard, see the information included in the release under the caption Forward-Looking Statements.
The information in the release is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Such information may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
The release contains non-GAAP financial measures; in the release these are referred to as comparable, organic or constant currency measures.  For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented.  In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Comparable measures, organic net sales measures and constant currency measures are provided because management uses this information in monitoring and evaluating the results and underlying business trends of the continuing operations of the Company and/or in internal goal setting.  In addition, the Company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year-over-year financial performance.  As such, the following items, including any related income tax effect, are excluded from comparable results, when appropriate:  the flow through of inventory step-up associated with an acquisition; accelerated depreciation in connection with certain restructuring activities; other costs incurred in connection with certain restructuring and/or integration activities; gains in connection with the disposal of a business and/or assets, including assets held for sale; losses on the contractual obligation created by the notification by a shareholder of Ruffino S.r.l. (Ruffino) to exercise its option to put its entire equity interest in Ruffino to the Company; acquisition-related integration costs; impairments of certain intangible assets; restructuring charges; a loss in connection with an equity method investees disposal of a business; and a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets in the United Kingdom.  The Company sold 80.1% of its Australian and United Kingdom business on January 31, 2011.  Accordingly, during the indicated periods, organic net sales measures exclude the net sales of the Australian and United Kingdom business together with net sales of the Constellation North American business previously sold through the Companys Australian and United Kingdom business, as appropriate.  Constant currency measures exclude the impact of year-over-year currency exchange rate fluctuations.
 
 
 
On October 6, 2011, Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
References to Constellations website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference.  The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD.  This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
15
Constellation Brands Reports
Second Quarter Fiscal 2012 Results
 
 Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ), the worlds leading premium wine company, reported today its second quarter 2012 results.
VICTOR, N.Y., Oct. 6, 2011
 
1
 
The underlying fundamentals of our business remain solid. We are investing additional resources behind key brands and routes to market while implementing changes to achieve cost savings and drive operational efficiencies. I am particularly pleased with our quarterly results in the areas of free cash flow generation and margin improvement, said Rob Sands, president and chief executive officer, Constellation Brands.
*Definitions of reported, comparable, organic and constant currency, as well as reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures, are contained elsewhere in this news release.
 
** Hereafter referred to as equity earnings.
 
NA=Not applicable
 
(1)
Prior to the divestiture of the Australian and U.K. business, net sales from CWNA to CWAE were eliminated as intercompany net sales. Subsequent to the divestiture, these net sales are now recorded as third party net sales. Accordingly, the prior period intercompany net sales are added back to the prior period reported net sales for comparison purposes.
 
 
Net Sales Commentary
Reported consolidated net sales decreased 20 percent due primarily to the divestiture of the Australian and U.K. wine business.
North American net sales on an organic constant currency basis were even with the prior year quarter and reflected favorable product mix offset by a decrease in volume and higher promotion costs in the U.S. The U.S. wine and spirits market remains healthy despite a challenging consumer environment, said Sands. Our second quarter depletions were below market due primarily to price increases implemented for certain value and specialty products and the timing of promotions for our U.S. wine business. Depletion trends improved on a quarter sequential basis and we are beginning to see positive consumer takeaway resulting from our new product development activities as well as ramped up promotional programming at the end of the quarter.  We are enthusiastic about the initiatives we have targeted for the key holiday selling season and our focus in the area of innovation and new product development is already paying dividends as brands like Simply Naked, Primal Roots, Dreaming Tree, Rex Goliath Moscato, Woodbridge Malbec and Ruffino Prosecco are being well received in the marketplace.
 
2
 
Operating Income and Net Income Commentary
The minimal decrease in consolidated comparable basis operating income was driven primarily by higher marketing and promotional spend combined with higher transportation costs in North America, partially offset by lower corporate expenses.
Constellations equity earnings from its 50 percent interest in the Crown Imports joint venture totaled $63 million, a decrease of four percent from the prior year.  For second quarter 2012, Crown generated net sales of $727 million, an increase of seven percent, and operating income of $126 million, a decrease of four percent.  The increase in net sales for Crown was primarily driven by volume growth of Modelo Especial and from ongoing product launches for Corona Familiar and Victoria. Net sales also benefited from improvement in net pricing and product mix. Operating income decreased as higher marketing spend more than offset the benefit from higher net sales.
Innovation with the launch of Victoria and new packages like Corona Familiar is helping to drive increased portfolio distribution and accessibility across more venues, occasions and price points, said Sands. This combined with successful marketing initiatives like the Win the Beach Getaway sweepstakes and Find Your Beach advertising campaign continued to drive Crowns marketplace momentum during the second quarter as it once again outperformed the industry and import category.
For second quarter 2012, pre-tax restructuring charges and unusual items totaled $4 million compared to $17 million for the prior year second quarter.
Interest expense totaled $43 million, a decrease of 16 percent. The decrease was primarily due to lower average borrowings.
The comparable basis effective tax rate for the quarter was three percent which reflects the favorable outcome of various tax items and compares to a 35 percent rate for the prior year second quarter.  The company now anticipates the full year effective tax rate to approximate 27 percent.
 
3
 
Free Cash Flow and Common Stock Repurchases Commentary
Free cash flow for the first six months of fiscal 2012 totaled $478 million. During second quarter 2012, the company repurchased 9.8 million shares of common stock at a cost of $188 million. Subsequent to the end of the second quarter through Sept. 30, 2011, the company repurchased an additional 3.5 million shares at a cost of $63 million.  In total, the company has purchased 13.3 million shares at a cost of $251 million.
Our continued strong free cash flow generation has created flexibility in the management of our capital structure, enabled us to reduce our debt by $290 million since the end of fiscal 2011 and fund the stock repurchases, said Bob Ryder, chief financial officer, Constellation Brands. We expect the stock repurchased through Sept. 30, 2011 to benefit diluted EPS by approximately $0.06 for fiscal 2012.
Outlook
The table below sets forth managements current diluted EPS expectations for fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 actual results, both on a reported basis and a comparable basis.
Constellation Brands Fiscal Year 2012
Diluted Earnings Per Share Outlook
Full-year fiscal 2012 guidance includes the following current assumptions but excludes any impact from any repurchases of the companys common stock subsequent to Sept. 30, 2011:
Conference Call
A conference call to discuss second quarter 2012 results and outlook will be hosted by President and Chief Executive Officer Rob Sands and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Bob Ryder on Thurs., Oct. 6, 2011 at 10:30 a.m. (eastern).  The conference call can be accessed by dialing +973-935-8505 beginning 10 minutes prior to the start of the call.  A live listen-only webcast of the conference call, together with a copy of this news release (including the attachments) and other financial information that may be discussed during the call will be available on the Internet at Constellations website: www.cbrands.com under Investors, prior to the call.
 
4
 
Explanations
Reported basis (reported) operating income, net income and diluted EPS are as reported under generally accepted accounting principles.  Operating income, net income and diluted EPS on a comparable basis (comparable), exclude restructuring charges and unusual items.  The companys measure of segment profitability excludes restructuring charges and unusual items, which is consistent with the measure used by management to evaluate results.
The company discusses additional non-GAAP measures in this news release, including constant currency net sales, organic net sales, comparable basis EBIT and free cash flow.
Supplemental Financial Information
Tables reconciling non-GAAP measures, together with definitions of these measures and the reasons management uses these measures, are attached to and are part of this news release.
About Constellation Brands
Constellation Brands is the worlds leading premium wine company that achieves success through an unmatched knowledge of wine consumers, storied brands that suit varied lives and tastes, and talented employees worldwide. With a broad portfolio of widely admired premium products across the wine, beer and spirits categories, Constellations brand portfolio includes Robert Mondavi, Clos du Bois, Blackstone, Arbor Mist, Estancia, Ravenswood, Ruffino, Jackson-Triggs, Kim Crawford, Corona Extra, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and SVEDKA Vodka.
Constellation Brands (NYSE: STZ and STZ.B) is a S&P 500 Index and Fortune 1000 company with more than 100 brands in our portfolio, sales in about 100 countries and operations in approximately 30 facilities. The company believes that industry leadership involves a commitment to our brands, to the trade, to the land, to investors and to different people around the world who turn to our products when celebrating big moments or enjoying quiet ones. We express this commitment through our vision: to elevate life with every glass raised. To learn more about Constellation, visit the company's website at .
www.cbrands.com
Forward-Looking Statements
The statements made under the heading Outlook, and all statements other than statements of historical facts set forth in this news release regarding Constellations business strategy, future operations, financial position, estimated revenues, projected costs, prospects, plans and objectives of management, as well as information concerning expected actions of third parties, are forward-looking statements (collectively, the Projections) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the Projections.
 
5
 
During the current quarter, Constellation may reiterate the Projections. Prior to the start of the company's quiet period, which will begin at the close of business on Nov. 30, 2011, the public can continue to rely on the Projections as still being Constellation's current expectations on the matters covered, unless Constellation publishes a notice stating otherwise. During Constellations quiet period, the Projections should not be considered to constitute the companys expectations and should be considered historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet period only and not subject to update by the company.
The Projections are based on management's current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination, divestiture, restructuring or other strategic business realignments, financing or share repurchase that may be completed after the date of this release. The Projections should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur.
In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the Projections of the company contained in this news release are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:
 
6
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in millions)
 
 
7
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(in millions, except per share data)
 
8
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in millions)
 
 
9
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATION OF REPORTED, ORGANIC AND CONSTANT CURRENCY NET SALES
(in millions)
As the company sold 80.1% of its Australian and U.K. business on January 31, 2011, organic net sales for the three months and six months ended August 31, 2010, are defined by the company as reported net sales less net sales of CWAE (as defined below), plus CWNA (as defined below) intercompany net sales to CWAE, as appropriate.  Organic net sales and percentage increase (decrease) in constant currency net sales (which excludes the impact of year-over-year currency exchange rate fluctuations) are provided because management uses this information in monitoring and evaluating the underlying business trends of the continuing operations of the company.  In addition, the company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year-over-year financial performance.
SUPPLEMENTAL SHIPMENT, DEPLETION AND U.S. FOCUS BRANDS INFORMATION
(in millions, branded product, 9 liter case equivalents)
 
10
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
SUMMARIZED SEGMENT AND EQUITY EARNINGS INFORMATION
(in millions)
NM = Not Meaningful
 
11
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(1)
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
12
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(1)
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
13
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)
NOTES
DEFINITIONS
Fiscal 2012 Initiative
The company's plan announced in June 2011 to streamline operations, gain efficiencies and reduce its cost structure following the sale of 80.1% of its Australian and U.K. business (the Fiscal 2012 Initiative).
Global Initiative
The company's plan announced in April 2009 to simplify its business, increase efficiencies and reduce its cost structure on a global basis (the "Global Initiative").
Australian Initiative
The company's plan announced in August 2008 to sell certain assets and implement operational changes designed to improve the efficiencies and returns associated with its Australian business (the "Australian Initiative").
 
14
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)
GUIDANCE - DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE AND FREE CASH FLOW
(in millions, except per share data)
Free Cash Flow Guidance
Free cash flow, as defined in the reconciliation below, is considered a liquidity measure and is considered to provide useful information to investors about the amount of cash generated, which can then be used, after required debt service and dividend payments, for other general corporate purposes.  A limitation of free cash flow is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period.  Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, cash flow from operating activities prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
15


