FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20110601165732.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
      
(c)
Appointment of Principal Operating Officer.
          Effective June 1, 2011, John A. (Jay) Wright assumed the responsibilities of Chief Operating Officer of Constellation Brands, Inc. (the "Company"). Mr. Wright, age 52, was previously President, Constellation Wines North America and is the President of Constellation Wines U.S., Inc., having held these positions since December 2009. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer of Constellation Wines U.S., Inc. from March 2009 until December 2009. Mr. Wright joined the Company in June 2006 with the Company's acquisition of Vincor International Inc. Mr. Wright served as President of Vincor International Inc. from June 2006 until March 2009 and, prior to that, as President and Chief Operating Officer of Vincor International Inc.'s Canadian Wine Division from October 2001 until June 2006. Before that, he held various positions of increasing responsibility with various other consumer products companies.
     
Item 7.01.
Regulation FD Disclosure.
          On June 1, 2011, Constellation Brands, Inc. ("Constellation") issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
          References to Constellation's website in the news release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K, and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference. The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD. This information is "furnished" and not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
     
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
06
 Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ), the world's leading premium wine company, announced today that Jay Wright, currently president of its North American division, has been named chief operating officer (COO) of Constellation Brands, effective immediately. In his new role, Wright will provide unified leadership for marketing, sales and operations across the company's entire business. The creation of the COO role is the latest step in the company's evolution to further refine and streamline its organization.
VICTOR, N.Y., June 1, 2011
          A native of Montreal, Wright was named president of the North American business in December 2009. Previously, he served as executive vice president and chief commercial officer of Constellation Wines U.S. He also served as president of Vincor International Inc. from June 2006 until March 2009 and, prior to that, as president and COO of Vincor International Inc.'s Canadian wine division from October 2001 until June 2006. A graduate of Queen's University in Canada, Wright held management positions at Molson, Nabisco, and Procter & Gamble in Canada and at Borden Foods Corporation in the U.S.
          Wright will continue to report to Rob Sands, president and chief executive officer.
 
About Constellation Brands
          Constellation Brands is the world's leading premium wine company that achieves success through an unmatched knowledge of wine consumers, storied brands that suit varied lives and tastes, and talented employees worldwide. With a broad portfolio of widely admired premium products across the wine, beer and spirits categories, Constellation's brand portfolio includes Robert Mondavi, Clos du Bois, Blackstone, Arbor Mist, Estancia, Ravenswood, Jackson Triggs, Kim Crawford, Corona Extra, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and SVEDKA Vodka.
          Constellation Brands (NYSE: STZ and STZ.B) is a S&P 500 Index and Fortune 1000 company with more than 100 brands in our portfolio, sales in about 125 countries and operations in approximately 30 facilities. The company believes that industry leadership involves a commitment to our brands, to the trade, to the land, to investors and to different people around the world who turn to our products when celebrating big moments or enjoying quiet ones. We express this commitment through our vision: to elevate life with every glass raised. To learn more about Constellation, visit the company's website at .
www.cbrands.com


