FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20110725170045.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 21, 2011, the Board of Directors of Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation or the Company) was expanded to nine (9) members, and on that date the Board of Directors filled the additional Board seat by electing Keith E. Wandell to serve as a member of the Board of Directors effective as of the close of business on July 21, 2011.  Also on that date Mr. Wandell was appointed a member of the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors.
Mr. Wandell, age 61, has been Chief Executive Officer and President of Harley-Davidson, Inc., a global motorcycle manufacturer, since May 2009.  He previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Johnson Controls, Inc., a global manufacturer of automotive, power and building solutions, from July 2006 until May 2009.
The Board considers Mr. Wandell to be an independent director under applicable New York Stock Exchange requirements.  As a non-management member of the Board, Mr. Wandell will receive the compensation paid to non-management directors for service on the Board and its committees, as described previously in the Companys proxy statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders that was held on July 21, 2011 (the "Annual Meeting") and filed by the Company with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on June 10, 2011 (the Proxy Statement).  As Mr. Wandell was elected within the overall Annual Meeting timeframe, the amount of his annual retainer, annual option grant and restricted stock award is consistent with the amounts to be paid to the other non-management directors for service on the Board and its committees.
On July 21, 2011, Mr. Wandell (i) became entitled to an annual retainer in the aggregate amount of $60,000; (ii) was granted an option to purchase 6,517 shares of the Companys Class 1 Common Stock at an exercise price of $21.48 per share and with an exercise period of January 21, 2012 through July 21, 2021; and (iii) received an award of 2,793 restricted shares of the Companys Class A Common Stock ("Class A Stock").  Subject to applicable provisions in the award document, the restricted stock will vest on July 21, 2012.  On July 21, 2011, which was the date of the option grant and the restricted stock award, the closing price of the Class A Stock was $21.48 per share.
There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Wandell and any other person pursuant to which he was selected either as a director or as a member of the Human Resources Committee, and there have been no transactions since the beginning of the Companys last fiscal year, nor are there any currently proposed transactions, regarding Mr. Wandell that are required to be disclosed by Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
 
 
 
(a) The Annual Meeting of Stockholders of Constellation Brands, Inc. was held on July 21, 2011.
   
(b)
   
At the Annual Meeting, the stockholders of the Company elected Jerry Fowden, Barry A. Fromberg, Jeananne K. Hauswald, James A. Locke III, Richard Sands, Robert Sands, Paul L. Smith and Mark Zupan as directors of the Company to serve until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.  The other matters considered at the Annual Meeting were a proposal to ratify the selection of KPMG LLP as the Companys independent registered public accounting firm for
 
 
 
 
 
the fiscal year ending February 29, 2012; a proposal to approve, by advisory vote, the compensation of the Companys named executive officers as disclosed in the Proxy Statement; an advisory vote on the frequency of future advisory votes regarding executive compensation; and a stockholder proposal concerning stockholder voting rights as disclosed in the Proxy Statement.  The final results of voting on each of the matters submitted to a vote of stockholders are as follows:
 
 
1.  
   
.
Election of Directors
At the Annual Meeting, the holders of the Class A Stock, voting as a separate class, elected the Companys slate of director nominees designated to be elected by the holders of the Class A Stock voting as a separate class, and the holders of Class A Stock and the Companys Class B Common Stock (the Class B Stock), voting together as a single class with holders of Class A Stock having one (1) vote per share and holders of Class B Stock having ten (10) votes per share, elected the Companys slate of director nominees designated to be elected by the holders of the Class A Stock and Class B Stock voting together as a single class.  The eight directors described in (b) above were elected by a plurality of the votes cast, as set forth below:
2.           .
Ratification of the selection of KPMG LLP as the Companys independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending February 29, 2012
At the Annual Meeting, the holders of Class A Stock and the holders of Class B Stock, voting together as a single class with holders of Class A Stock having one (1) vote per share and holders of Class B Stock having ten (10) votes per share, ratified the selection of KPMG LLP as the Companys independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending February 29, 2012, as set forth below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.           .
Proposal to approve, by an advisory vote, the compensation of the Companys named executive officers as disclosed in the Proxy Statement
At the Annual Meeting, the holders of Class A Stock and the holders of Class B Stock, voting together as a single class with holders of Class A Stock having one (1) vote per share and holders of Class B Stock having ten (10) votes per share, approved the compensation of the named executive officers as disclosed in the Proxy Statement, as set forth below:
 
4.           .
Advisory vote on the frequency of future stockholder advisory votes regarding executive compensation
At the Annual Meeting, the holders of Class A Stock and the holders of Class B Stock, voting together as a single class with holders of Class A Stock having one (1) vote per share and holders of Class B Stock having ten (10) votes per share, voted in favor of conducting a stockholder advisory vote every ONE YEAR to approve the compensation of the Companys named executive officers, as set forth below:
 
In light of the foregoing voting results and other factors, the Companys Board of Directors at its July 21, 2011 meeting determined that the Company will hold an annual advisory vote on the compensation of its named executive officers.  Unless the Board of Directors subsequently determines otherwise, the Company will continue to hold annual advisory votes until the next stockholder advisory vote on the frequency of advisory votes on the compensation of its named executive officers.  The regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission provide that the Company must hold a vote on the frequency of advisory votes on the compensation of its named executive officers at least once every six years.
5.           .
Stockholder proposal concerning stockholder voting rights
At the Annual Meeting, the holders of Class A Stock and the holders of Class B Stock, voting together as a single class with holders of Class A Stock having one (1) vote per share and holders of Class B Stock having ten (10) votes per share, did not approve a stockholder proposal concerning stockholder voting rights, as set forth below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 25, 2011, Constellation Brands, Inc. issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, announcing the election of Keith E. Wandell as a member of the Companys Board of Directors effective as of the close of business on July 21, 2011.
References to Constellations website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K, and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference.  The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD.  This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
[LOGO]
Constellation
 
NEWS RELEASE
11
                                                                           
                                                                          
                                                                           
 
 
 
 Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ), the worlds leading premium wine company, announced today that its board of directors increased the size of the board from eight to nine members. In addition, the board elected Keith Wandell, 61, president and chief executive officer (CEO) of Harley-Davidson, Inc., effective the close of business on July 21, 2011.
VICTOR, N.Y., July 25, 2011
 
We are very pleased to welcome Keith to the board of directors and believe his experience in a diversified, consumer-driven industry, will provide excellent guidance as Constellation continues to focus on building its premium wine and spirits brands, said Constellations Chairman of the Board, Richard Sands. We look forward to the contributions he will make to the organization.
 
Wandell joined Harley-Davidson, Inc. as CEO in 2009. Previously, he spent 21 years with Johnson Controls, Inc. in a variety of leadership roles including president and chief operating officer. Wandell earned his Bachelor of Science in Business Administration from Ohio University and Master of Business Administration from the University of Dayton.  
 
About Constellation Brands
Constellation Brands is the worlds leading premium wine company that achieves success through an unmatched knowledge of wine consumers, storied brands that suit varied lives and tastes, and talented employees worldwide. With a broad portfolio of widely admired premium products across the wine, beer and spirits categories, Constellations brand portfolio includes Robert Mondavi, Clos du Bois, Blackstone, Arbor Mist, Estancia, Ravenswood, Jackson Triggs, Kim Crawford, Corona Extra, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and SVEDKA Vodka.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Constellation Brands (NYSE: STZ and STZ.B) is a S&P 500 Index and Fortune 1000 company with more than 100 brands in our portfolio, sales in about 125 countries and operations in approximately 30 facilities. The company believes that industry leadership involves a commitment to our brands, to the trade, to the land, to investors and to different people around the world who turn to our products when celebrating big moments or enjoying quiet ones. We express this commitment through our vision: to elevate life with every glass raised. To learn more about Constellation, visit the company's website at .
www.cbrands.com


