FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20110204144934.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Table of Contents
          A Current Report on Form 8-K was filed on December 28, 2010 in which Constellation Brands, Inc. ("Constellation") disclosed a proposed transaction whereby various entities affiliated with CHAMP Private Equity ("CHAMP"), a private equity firm based in Sydney, Australia, would subscribe for shares in two indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of Constellation, CBI Australia Holdings Pty Limited ("CAHL") and Vincor U.K. Limited ("VUK") (the "Transaction"). The Transaction was completed on January 31, 2011, on which date CHAMP acquired an 80.1% interest in each of CAHL and VUK, respectively. At the time the Transaction was completed, CAHL and VUK held virtually all Constellation's Australian, United Kingdom, and South African brands, wineries, facilities, and vineyards. Additionally, CAHL held Constellation's Japanese distribution company and VUK held Constellation's 50% interest in Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited, which owns and operates a United Kingdom drinks wholesale business. Constellation has indirectly retained a 19.9% interest in each of CAHL and VUK and a limited number of Australian brands and vineyards. In connection with the Transaction, Constellation received cash in an amount equivalent to approximately AUD$230 million, subject to certain adjustments.
          As part of the closing of the Transaction, on January 31, 2011, Constellation, CAHL, VUK, and CHAMP entered into a Deed of Amendment and Restatement to the Share Subscription Agreement (the "Deed of Amendment"), pursuant to which the parties amended and restated the Share Subscription Agreement which they had originally entered into on December 23, 2010 (the "Existing Share Subscription Agreement"). After giving effect to the Deed of Amendment, the Share Subscription Agreement is referred to herein as the "Amended and Restated Share Subscription Agreement." The Deed of Amendment effected various modifications to the Existing Share Subscription Agreement, including effecting a mechanism whereby (i) CHAMP and an entity indirectly wholly-owned by Constellation each subscribed for shares and loan notes in CAHL in order to reflect their respective interests in CAHL after the Transaction and (ii) CHAMP and another entity indirectly wholly-owned by Constellation each subscribed for shares and loan notes in VUK in order to reflect their respective interests in VUK after the Transaction.
          In addition, Constellation and CHAMP have entered into investment deeds to govern their respective rights and obligations as shareholders in CAHL and in VUK following the completion of the Transaction. In connection with the Transaction, Constellation and various of its directly and indirectly wholly-owned subsidiaries, on the one hand, and CAHL and VUK and certain of their wholly-owned subsidiaries entered into various distribution, agency, winemaking, service and supply agreements pursuant to which they will distribute and supply each other's products on a global basis. Also, Constellation, CAHL and VUK entered into a transition services agreement pursuant to which they will provide certain temporary transition services to each other.
          The Existing Share Subscription Agreement was filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company's Form 8-K which was dated December 23, 2010 and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 28, 2010. The Amended and Restated Share Subscription Agreement is included in the Appendix to the Deed of Amendment which is filed as Exhibit 2.1 of this Current Report on Form 8-K. The foregoing description of the Amended and Restated Share Subscription Agreement and the Transaction does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended and Restated Share Subscription Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference. The representations, warranties and covenants contained in the Amended and Restated Share Subscription Agreement are made by the parties solely for the benefit of each other and should not be relied upon by any other person.
Table of Contents
          On January 31, 2011, Constellation issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, announcing Constellation's completion of the Transaction.
          References to Constellation's website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference. The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD. This information is "furnished" and not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
Table of Contents
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
Table of Contents

Exhibit 2.1
Deed of Amendment and Restatement to the Share Subscription Agreement
 
Constellation Brands, Inc.
CBI
Vincor U.K. Limited
Vincor U.K.
CBI Australia Holdings Pty Limited
CBI Australia
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as trustee of the CHAMP Buyout III Trust
CHAMP III Australia
Perpetual Corporate Trust Limited as trustee of the CHAMP Buyout III (SWF) Trust
CHAMP III SWF
CHAMP Buyout III Pte Ltd
CHAMP III Singapore
CHAMP III Cayman
Canopus Holdco Limited
 
          
Date:
31 January 2011
 
Parties
The parties agree
 
 
 
Each party to this deed acknowledges that it has received valuable consideration for entering into this deed (including each party agreeing to enter this deed) from the other parties to this deed.
 
 
On and from the date of this deed, the Existing Agreement is amended and restated so that it is in the form of, and its terms are those set out in, the Amended and Restated Agreement.
 
Other than as amended and restated by this deed, the Existing Agreement remains in full force and effect and the parties ratify and confirm the Existing Agreement as amended and restated by this deed.
Nothing in this deed affects any right or obligation arising under the Existing Agreement before the date of this deed except as expressly provided in this deed.
 
Each of the parties to this deed represents and warrants on execution and delivery of this deed that all its representations and warranties in the Existing Agreement are true as though they had been made at that date in respect of the facts and circumstances then subsisting.
 
Clause 27 of the Existing Agreement applies to this deed as if expressly set out in this deed.
 
Clause 30 of the Existing Agreement applies to this deed as if expressly set out in this deed.
 
This deed is governing by the law in force in New South Wales and each party submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of that place.
 
 
Execution page
EXECUTED as a deed
 
 
 
Appendix A  Amended and Restated Agreement
 
CLAYTON UTZ
Share subscription agreement
Constellation Brands, Inc.
CBI
Vincor U.K. Limited
Vincor U.K.
CBI Australia Holdings Pty Limited
CBI Australia
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as trustee of the CHAMP Buyout III Trust
CHAMP III Australia
Perpetual Corporate Trust Limited as trustee of the CHAMP Buyout III (SWF) Trust
CHAMP III SWF
CHAMP Buyout III Pte Ltd
CHAMP III Singapore
Canopus Holdco Limited
CHAMP III Cayman
Clayton Utz Lawyers Levels 19-35 No. 1 O'Connell Street Sydney NSW 2000 Australia PO Box H3 Australia Square Sydney NSW 1215 T +61 2 9353 4000 F +61 2 8220 6700
www.claytonutz.com
 
 
Contents
i
 
ii
 
iii
 
iv
 
v
 
Share subscription agreement dated 23 December 2010
Background
Operative provisions
 
In this agreement:
means, at the relevant measurement date:
Accounting Standards
1
 
mean 4,000,000 Loan Notes to be issued by CBI Australia.
Additional New Loan Notes
means the subscription price for the Additional New Loan Notes, being $4,000,000.
Additional New Loan Note Subscription Price
means the later of:
Additional Subscription Date
means the date which is 15 Business Days after the date on which the Australian Working Capital Amount and European Working Capital Amount are finally determined in accordance with clause 9 or any other date agreed between the Companies and the Subscribers in writing.
Adjustment Payment Date
means the Australian Securities and Investments Commission.
ASIC
means each asset owned or held by the Brand Companies or exclusively used in the Brand Business, including any assets held under any financing or operating lease.
Asset
means those assets identified in Schedule 11.
Assets Held For Sale
means KPMG as the auditor of the Brand Companies.
Auditor
has the meaning given in clause 9.3(c).
Australian Completion Balance Sheet
means the so titled deed dated on or about the date of this agreement between CBI and the Subscribers in relation to CBI Australia.
Australian Investment Deed
means the Initial Australian New Loan Note Subscription Price plus the Additional New Loan Note Subscription Price.
Australian New Loan Note Subscription Price
means the working capital amount shown in the Australian Completion Balance Sheet, less any Contributed Working Capital expressed in A$.
Australian Working Capital Amount
has the meaning given in clause 6.2
Australian Subscription Price Adjustment
means any licence, consent, approval, permit, registration, accreditation, certification or other authorisation given or issued by any Regulatory Authority or any other person.
Authorisation
means an agreement of that name (or similar) between a relevant bottling services entity and a buying entity, as such entities are contemplated in, and as such agreement will be prepared in accordance with clause 7.7 and otherwise substantially on the basis of the principles set out in the corresponding Term Sheet agreed by CBI and the Subscribers prior to the date of this agreement.
Bottling Supply Agreement
means the business conducted by the Brand Companies including wine production and distribution in Australia, the U.K., Europe, Japan and South Africa.
Brand Business
means each of the Companies and each of their Subsidiaries.
Brand Company
2
 
means any Guarantee provided by any Brand Company in relation to the obligations of any Constellation Group Company, including each Guarantee specified in part 1 of Schedule 6.
Brand Company Guarantee
means all of the Brand Companies.
Brand Group
means all Intellectual Property Rights used in the conduct of the Brand Business as presently conducted at the Completion Date and specifically includes the Trade Marks, the Business Names, the Domain Names and the Licensed Intellectual Property.
Brand Intellectual Property
means an agreement of that name (or similar) between a relevant buying entity and a relevant supplying entity, as such entities are contemplated in, and as such agreement will be prepared in accordance with clause 7.7 and otherwise substantially on the basis of the principles set out in, the corresponding Term Sheet agreed by CBI and the Subscribers prior to the date of this agreement.
Bulk Wine Supply Agreement
means a day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday and on which banks are open for business generally in New South Wales.
Business Day
means each of the business names specified in part 2 of Schedule 4.
Business Names
means the Facility Agreement dated 25 June 2007 as amended between Commonwealth Bank of Australia and Barossa Valley Estate Ltd.
BVE Debt
means the Facility Agreement dated 23 December 2003 (as amended) between Commonwealth Bank of Australia and each of Constellation Australia Limited, Houghton Wines (Western Australia) Pty Ltd, The Western Australian Winegrowers' Association Pty Ltd, The Stanley Wine Company Pty Ltd, GSI Holdings Pty Ltd, Vineyards (Australasia) Pty Ltd, International Cellars Australia Pty Ltd, Walter Reynell & Sons Wines Pty Ltd, BRL Hardy Finance Pty Limited, Thomas Hardy Hunter River Pty Ltd, Vincor Australia Pty Ltd, Goundrey Wines Pty Ltd, Fox River Wines Pty Ltd, Langton Wines Pty Ltd, Amberley Estate Pty Ltd and Constellation Brands Inc.
CBA Facility
means Constellation Brands, Inc.
CBI
means CBI Australia Holdings Pty Ltd ACN 103 359 299, the details of which are set out in Schedule 2.
CBI Australia
means the Consolidated Group of which CBI Australia is the Head Company.
CBI Australia Consolidated Group
means the Initial CBI Australia Loan Notes plus the Additional New Loan Notes that will together represent on the Additional Subscription Date, 80.1% of the outstanding Loan Notes on issue in CBI Australia.
CBI Australia Loan Notes
means:
CBI Australia Shares
in each case carrying the rights set out in Schedule 5 of the Australian Investment Deed and, on Completion, representing 80.1% of the issued capital in CBI Australia.
means:
CBI Leasingham Amount
3
 
means the Loan Notes held by CBI (or a wholly owned subsidiary of CBI) in each of CBI Australia and Vincor U.K. as set out in the second column of the second table in Schedule 1 in each case:
CBI Loan Notes
means the Guarantees set out Part 3 of Schedule 6.
CBI Retained Guarantees
means the shares held by CBI (or a wholly owned subsidiary of CBI) in each of CBI Australia and Vincor U.K. as set out in the second column of the first table in Schedule 1 in each case:
CBI Shares
means:
CBI Stonehaven Amount
4
 
means Constellation Europe Limited.
CEL
means CHAMP III Singapore and CHAMP III Cayman.
CHAMP III Buyout
means any claim, demand or cause of action whether arising in contract, tort, under statute or otherwise in relation to:
Claim
has the meaning given in clause 19.3.
Claim Notice
means Vincor U.K. and CBI Australia.
Companies
means the completion of:
Completion
means the balance sheets prepared and finalised in accordance with clause 9.
Completion Balance Sheets
means:
Completion Cash
except to the extent that any of the items in paragraphs (b) to (e) above has been paid to CBI through the Outstanding Intercompany Debt at that time.
means the date on which Completion occurs.
Completion Date
means the exchange rate, as advised to CBI prior to Completion, at which the Subscribers convert the European Subscription Price into GBP for Completion, as evidenced by bank confirmations.
Completion Exchange Rate
means each condition specified in clause 2.1.
Condition
means:
Confidential Information
5
 
in whatever form and in each case including information that has been disclosed by the Companies or any Brand Company or their respective Representatives under the terms of a confidentiality agreement.
has the meaning given in section 995-1 of the Tax Act.
Consolidated Group
means the subscription price payable for the Constellation CBI Australia Loan Notes being A$17,451,886.
Constellation Australian Loan Note Subscription Price
means the initial subscription price paid by CBI in relation to the Constellation CBI Australia Shares, having regard to clause 11.1(a).
Constellation Australian Subscription Price
means the aggregate adjustment to the Constellation Australian Subscription Price to ensure that the subscription price per share issued to CBI by CBI Australia is equal to the Subscription Price per Share or the subscription price per Equivalent Share issued to the Subscribers by CBI Australia.
Constellation Australian Subscription Price Adjustment
means the Loan Notes held by CBI (or a wholly owned subsidiary of CBI) issued by CBI Australia as set out in the second column of the second table in Schedule 1 carrying the rights set out in the loan note deed poll executed by CBI Australia, the form of which is attached as Attachment B to the Australian Investment Deed that will on completion represent 19.9% of the outstanding Loan Notes on issue in CBI Australia.
Constellation CBI Australia Loan Notes
means the shares held by CBI (or a wholly owned subsidiary of CBI) in CBI Australia as set out in the second column of the first table in Schedule 1 carrying the rights set out in Schedule 5 of the Australian Investment Deed that will on completion represent 19.9% of the issued capital in CBI Australia.
Constellation CBI Australia Shares
means Constellation Europe (Holdings) Limited.
Constellation Europe
means the subscription price paid by CBI in relation to:
Constellation European Subscription Price
having regard to clause 11.1(a).
means CBI and each Related Entity of CBI other than each Brand Company.
Constellation Group Companies
means any Guarantee provided by any Constellation Group Company in relation to the obligations of any Brand Company specified in part 2 of Schedule 6 and includes, for the purposes of clause 12.2, any guarantee provided by a Constellation Group Company in favour of MCHL or Punch Taverns in connection with Punch Taverns' investment in MCHL.
Constellation Group Guarantee
has the meaning given in clause 13.3.
Constellation Names
means the warehouse and distribution unit located at Unit M1, R D Park, Bristol.
Constellation Park
6
 
7
 
8
 
9
 
10
 
11
 
12
 
13
 
14
 
15
 
16
 
17
 
18
 
19
 
20
 
21
 
     
 
22
 
23
 
     
 
     
 
24
 
     
 
     
 
25
 
26
 
27
 
     
 
28
 
29
 
30
 
31
 
32
 
     
 
33
 
34
 
35
 
36
 
     
 
37
 
38
 
39
 
40
 
41
 
42
 
43
 
44
 
45
 
46
 
47
 
48
 
49
 
50
 
51
 
52
 
53
 
54
 
55
 
56
 
57
 
58
 
 
59
 
60
 
 
61
 
 
 
62
 
 
63
 
 
64
 
 
65
 
 
66
 
67
 
 
68
 
69
 
 
 
70
 
Except as otherwise provided in this agreement:
in connection with negotiating, preparing, executing and performing each Transaction Document, including without limitation, fees and expenses of brokers, investment bankers, attorneys and accountants.
This agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties on separate counterparts. Each counterpart constitutes an original of this agreement, and all together constitute one agreement.
Each party must promptly do all further acts and execute and deliver all further documents (in form and content reasonably satisfactory to that party) required by law or reasonably requested by another party to give effect to this agreement.
A party's rights and obligations do not merge on completion of any transaction under this agreement.
If any provision or part of a provision of this agreement is held or found to be void, invalid or otherwise unenforceable (whether in respect of a particular party or generally), it will be deemed to be severed to the extent that it is void or to the extent of violability, invalidity or unenforceability, but the remainder of that provision will remain in full force and effect.
71
 
 
72
 
Executed as an agreement.
1
 
2
 
3
 
Schedule 7 Warranties
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule 8 Subscribers Warranties
 
 
 
 
 
The Registrant has omitted from this filing the Schedules, Attachments and Exhibit listed below. The Registrant will furnish supplementally to the Securities and Exchange Commission, upon request, a copy of such Schedules, Attachments and Exhibit.

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
19
 Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ), the world's leading premium wine company, announced today that it has completed the sale of its Australian and U.K. business to CHAMP Private Equity of Sydney, Australia. The transaction is valued at approximately A$290 million. Constellation retained an approximate 20 percent interest in the business and received cash proceeds of about $230 million, subject to closing adjustments.
VICTOR, N.Y., Jan. 31, 2011
Constellation expects that net proceeds will be used to reduce borrowings. Any after-tax gain or loss recognized in connection with this transaction will be excluded from the company's comparable basis diluted earnings per share. The impact of this transaction is expected to be neutral to ongoing reported basis and comparable basis diluted EPS for fiscal 2011 and neutral to slightly dilutive for fiscal 2012.
The company also announced that effective March 1, Jay Wright, president of Constellation Wines North America, will assume responsibility for Constellation New Zealand in addition to leading Constellation Wines U.S. and Vincor Canada, Constellation's Canadian operations.
About Constellation Brands
Constellation Brands is the world's leading premium wine company that achieves success through an unmatched knowledge of wine consumers, storied brands that suit varied lives and tastes, and talented employees worldwide. With a broad portfolio of widely admired premium products across the wine, beer and spirits categories, Constellation's brand portfolio includes Robert Mondavi, Clos du Bois, Blackstone, Arbor Mist, Estancia, Ravenswood, Jackson Triggs, Kim Crawford, Corona Extra, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and SVEDKA Vodka.
 
Constellation Brands (NYSE: STZ and STZ.B) is an S&P 500 Index and Fortune 1000 company with more than 100 brands in our portfolio, sales in about 125 countries and operations in approximately 30 facilities. The company believes that industry leadership involves a commitment to our brands, to the trade, to the land, to investors and to different people around the world who turn to our products when celebrating big moments or enjoying quiet ones. We express this commitment through our vision: to elevate life with every glass raised. To learn more about Constellation, visit the company's web site at www.cbrands.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements. The word "expect" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain such identifying words. These statements may relate to business strategy, future operations, financial position, estimated revenues, projected costs, prospects, plans and objectives of management, as well as information concerning expected actions of third parties. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond Constellation's control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in, or implied by, such forward-looking statements. Although Constellation believes the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, Constellation can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct.
The forward looking statements are based on management's current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination, divestiture, restructuring or other strategic business realignments or financing that may be completed after the date of this release. The forward looking statements should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur. For additional information about risks and uncertainties that could affect Constellation's forward-looking statements, please refer to Constellation's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Feb. 28, 2010. The factors discussed in these reports could cause actual future performance to differ from current expectations.

Exhibit 99.2
On December 23, 2010, Constellation Brands, Inc. ("Constellation"), CBI Australia Holdings Pty Limited ("CAHL"), Vincor U.K. Limited ("VUK") and various entities affiliated with CHAMP Private Equity ("CHAMP"), a private equity firm based in Sydney, Australia, entered into a Share Subscription Agreement (the "Share Subscription Agreement"), pursuant to which CHAMP agreed to subscribe for shares in CAHL and VUK (the "Transaction"). CAHL and VUK are indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of Constellation. On January 31, 2011, the parties completed the Transaction contemplated in the Share Subscription Agreement, as amended, and CHAMP acquired an 80.1% interest in CAHL and in VUK. At the time the Transaction was completed, CAHL and VUK held virtually all Constellation's Australian, United Kingdom, and South African brands, wineries, facilities, and vineyards. Additionally, CAHL held Constellation's Japanese distribution company and VUK held Constellation's 50% interest in Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited, which owns and operates a United Kingdom drinks wholesale business. Constellation has indirectly retained a 19.9% interest in each of CAHL and VUK and a limited number of Australian brands and vineyards. In connection with the Transaction, Constellation received cash in an amount equivalent to approximately AUD$230 million, subject to certain adjustments.
The following unaudited pro forma combined financial information of Constellation consists of (i) an unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of November 30, 2010 (the "Pro Forma Balance Sheet"), (ii) an unaudited pro forma combined statement of operations for the year ended February 28, 2010, (iii) an unaudited pro forma combined statement of operations for the nine months ended November 30, 2010 (collectively, the "Pro Forma Statements of Operations"), and (iv) notes to the unaudited pro forma statements (collectively, the "Pro Forma Statements").
The Pro Forma Balance Sheet as of November 30, 2010, reflects (i) the disposition of Constellation's Australian and United Kingdom business ("CWAE") and (ii) and pro forma adjustments, as if the Transaction had occurred on November 30, 2010. The Pro Forma Statements of Operations for the year ended February 28, 2010, and the nine months ended November 30, 2010, reflect (i) the disposition of CWAE and (ii) pro forma adjustments, as if the Transaction had occurred on March 1, 2009.
Constellation's November 30, 2010, information was derived from its unaudited consolidated financial statements filed in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended November 30, 2010. Constellation's February 28, 2010, information was derived from its audited consolidated financial statements filed in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2010. The historical consolidated financial information has been adjusted to give effect to pro forma events that are (i) directly attributable to the transaction described above, (ii) factually supportable and (iii) with respect to the statement of operations information, expected to have a continuing impact on the Constellation's consolidated results.
The Pro Forma Statements are for illustrative purposes only and should be read in conjunction with Constellation's separate historical consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto and with the accompanying notes to the Pro Forma Statements. The Pro Forma Statements are based upon currently available information and upon certain assumptions that Constellation believes are reasonable under the circumstances. The Pro Forma Statements do not purport to represent what Constellation's financial position or results of operations would actually have been if the aforementioned transaction had in fact occurred on such dates or at the beginning of the periods indicated, nor do they project Constellation's financial position or results of operations at any future date or for any future period.
 
 
 
 


