FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20120629081944.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
207 High Point Drive, Building 100, Victor, NY  14564
  (Address of Principal Executive Offices)       (Zip Code)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On June 29, 2012, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company), a Delaware corporation, issued a news release (the release) announcing its financial condition and results of operations as of and for the first fiscal quarter ended May 31, 2012.  A copy of the release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.  The projections constituting the guidance included in the release involve risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at this time and, therefore, actual results may vary materially from these forecasts.  In this regard, see the information included in the release under the caption Forward-Looking Statements.
 
The information in the release is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Such information may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
The release contains non-GAAP financial measures; in the release these are referred to as comparable, organic or constant currency measures.  For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented.  In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Comparable measures, organic net sales measures and constant currency measures are provided because management uses this information in monitoring and evaluating the results and underlying business trends of the continuing operations of the Company and/or in internal goal setting.  In addition, the Company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year-over-year financial performance.  As such, the following items, including any related income tax effect, are excluded from comparable results, when appropriate:  the flow through of inventory step-up associated with an acquisition accelerated depreciation in connection with certain restructuring activities; other costs incurred in connection with certain restructuring and/or acquisitionactivities; gains and/or losses in connection with the disposal of businesses and/or assets, including assets held for sale; losses on the contractual obligation created by the notification by a shareholder of Ruffino S.r.l. (Ruffino) to exercise its option to put its entire equity interest in Ruffino to the Company; impairments of certain intangible assets; restructuring charges; net gains in connection with the acquisition of the remaining portion of Ruffino; gains in connection with releases from certain contractual obligations; and loss on write-off of financing costs.  The Companyacquired the remaining portion of Ruffino on October 5, 2011.  Accordingly, during the indicated periods, organic net sales measures exclude the net sales of Ruffino, as appropriate.  Constant currency measures exclude the impact of year-over-year currency exchange rate fluctuations.
;
 
 
 
 
On June 29, 2012, Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
References to Constellations website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference.  The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD.  This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS RELEASE
10
*Definitionsof reported and comparable, as well as reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures, are contained elsewhere in this news release.
**Hereafter referred to as equity earnings.
NA=Not applicable
 
 
1
 
 Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ), the worlds leading premium wine company, reported today its first quarter 2013 results and details relating to two acquisitions that are expected to positively position the company for the future.
VICTOR, N.Y., June 29, 2012
 
First quarter results were generally in line with our expectations. From an operational perspective, we are experiencing excellent marketplace momentum for our wine and spirits business and Crowns imported beer business, said Rob Sands, president and chief executive officer, Constellation Brands.  Earlier today, we announced we are purchasing the remaining 50 percent interest in the Crown joint venture, the leading beer importer in the U.S. This represents a significant milestone for Constellation Brands as we will become the sole importer of the Grupo Modelo brands in the U.S. and solidifies our place in this market for the long term. In addition, we are purchasing Mark West  the nations best-selling pinot noir brand.
 
Launched in 2002, Mark West is primarily a California pinot noir that has grown into a nearly 600,000 case brand selling in the U.S. in the $10-$12 price range at retail. It is currently the top selling pinot noir brand experiencing nearly 35 percent volume growth in SymphonyIRI channels.  Mark West is an exciting addition to our family of brands, said Sands. It is a high growth, complementary brand to our existing portfolio.  The transaction is expected to close in July and the company estimates the acquisition will be slightly accretive to diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2013.
 
Net Sales Commentary
 
Wine and spirits net sales on an organic constant currency basis decreased one percent reflecting higher promotional costs and a decrease in volume, partially offset by favorable product mix.
 
Our first quarter sales and depletion trends were in-line with our expectations, said Sands. As planned, the sell-in of new products into distributor and retail channels in last years fourth quarter impacted our sales and depletion trends for the first quarter. However, consumer takeaway trends in SymphonyIRI channels remain robust, as our new product introductions as well as marketing and promotional investments gain traction. We believe our strong marketplace momentum positions us to grow in-line with the U.S. wine and spirits category in fiscal 2013.
 
 
2
 
 
Operating Income and Net Income Commentary
 
The decrease in consolidated comparable basis operating income was driven primarily by promotional spending and higher marketing.
 
The companys equity earnings from its 50 percent interest in the Crown joint venture totaled $61 million compared to $60 million from the prior year first quarter. For first quarter 2013, Crown generated net sales of $724 million, an increase of seven percent, and operating income of $123 million, an increase of three percent.  The increase in net sales was largely driven by volume growth. The increase in operating income primarily reflects the volume growth partially offset by a timing-related increase in marketing costs and a contractual product cost increase.
 
Crowns momentum in the marketplace continued during the first quarter as it outperformed the U.S. beer industry and the import category while posting high single-digit depletion growth driven by strong performance of Modelo Especial and Corona Extra, said Sands. Crown kicked off the summer selling season with strong execution during Cinco de Mayo and this seasons Win Your Beach sweepstakes promotion as well as other creative advertising campaigns.
 
Interest expense totaled $51 million, an increase of 14 percent. The increase was primarily due to higher average borrowings and an increase in average interest rates.
 
The comparable basis effective tax rate for first quarter 2013 was 36.4 percent compared to a 37.0 percent rate for the prior year first quarter.
 
Free Cash Flow and Common Stock Repurchases Commentary
 
Free cash flow for the quarter totaled $77 million as compared to $220 million in first quarter 2012. The decrease was primarily due to the receipt of tax refunds in the prior year first quarter. During first quarter 2013, the company repurchased 18 million shares of common stock at a cost of $383 million.
 
During the first quarter, we took advantage of our improved credit profile and the attractive interest rate environment to refinance our senior credit facility and issue $600 million of 6%, 10-year Senior Notes, said Bob Ryder, chief financial officer, Constellation Brands. Proceeds from the notes issuance were effectively used to reduce borrowings under our senior credit facility and to fund the share repurchases. Given the anticipated funding requirements for the Crown transaction, we do not expect to repurchase additional shares during the remainder of fiscal 2013. As weve completed nearly 70 percent of our original fiscal 2013 share repurchase target during the first quarter, we are maintaining our weighted average share estimate at a range of 185 to 190 million.
 
 
3
 
 
The Crown transaction is expected to increase the companys debt to comparable basis EBITDA leverage to the mid-four times range when factoring in a full-year of the additional Crown EBITDA, Ryder added. Due to the anticipated strong free cash flow generation of Constellation Brands, this leverage ratio should decrease to our targeted range of three to four times within the first 12 months after the close of the transaction.
 
Outlook
 
The table below sets forth managements current diluted EPS expectations for fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 actual results, both on a reported basis and a comparable basis.
 
Full-year fiscal 2013 guidance includes the following current assumptions, including the expected acquisition of the Mark West brand, but excludes any impact from the anticipated purchase of the remaining 50 percent interest in the Crown Imports joint venture:
Conference Call
 
A conference call to discuss first quarter 2013 results, fiscal outlook and the transactions discussed in this news release, will be hosted by President and Chief Executive Officer Rob Sands and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Bob Ryder on Fri., June 29, 2012 at 10:30 a.m. (eastern).  The conference call can be accessed by dialing +973-935-8505 beginning 10 minutes prior to the start of the call.  A live listen-only webcast of the conference call, together with a copy of this news release (including the attachments) and other financial information that may be discussed during the call will be available on the Internet at the companys website: www.cbrands.com under Investors, prior to the call.
 
 
4
 
 
Explanations
 
Reported basis (reported) operating income, net income and diluted EPS are as reported under generally accepted accounting principles.  Operating income, net income and diluted EPS on a comparable basis (comparable), exclude restructuring charges and unusual items.  The companys measure of segment profitability excludes restructuring charges and unusual items, which is consistent with the measure used by management to evaluate results.
 
The company discusses additional non-GAAP measures in this news release, including constant currency net sales, organic net sales, comparable basis EBIT, comparable basis effective tax rate and free cash flow.
 
Supplemental Financial Information
 
Tables reconciling non-GAAP measures, together with definitions of these measures and the reasons management uses these measures, are attached to and are part of this news release.
 
About Constellation Brands, Inc.
 
As the worlds leader in premium wine, Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ and STZ.B) is a S&P 500 Index and a Fortune 1000 company with 4,400 employees, sales in 125 countries and operations in 40 facilities worldwide. The company manages a broad portfolio of more than 100 wines, beers and spirits that include: Robert Mondavi, Clos du Bois, Kim Crawford, Inniskillin, Franciscan Estate, Ruffino, Simi, Estancia, Corona Extra, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and SVEDKA Vodka. Learn more at .
www.cbrands.com
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The statements made under the heading Outlook, and all statements other than statements of historical facts set forth in this news release regarding Constellation Brands business strategy, future operations, financial position, estimated revenues, projected costs, prospects, plans and objectives of management, as well as information concerning expected actions of third parties, are forward-looking statements (collectively, the Projections) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the Projections.
 
During the current quarter, the company may reiterate the Projections. Prior to the start of the company's quiet period, which will begin at the close of business on Aug. 31, 2012, the public can continue to rely on the Projections as still being the companys current expectations on the matters covered, unless the company publishes a notice stating otherwise. During the companys quiet period, the Projections should not be considered to constitute the companys expectations and should be considered historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet period only and not subject to update by the company.
 
 
5
 
 
The Projections are based on management's current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination, divestiture, restructuring or other strategic business realignments, financing or share repurchase that may be completed after the date of this release. The Projections should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur.  There can be no assurance that any of the following transactions will occur or will occur on the timetable contemplated hereby: (i) a transaction regarding the acquisition of the Mark West brand and (ii) a transaction regarding the purchase by the company of the remaining 50 percent interest in Crown Imports LLC.  
 
In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the Projections of the company contained in this news release are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:
 
 
6
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in millions)
 
7
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(in millions, except per share data)
 
8
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in millions)
 
9
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATION OF REPORTED, ORGANIC AND CONSTANT CURRENCY NET SALES
(in millions)
As the company acquired the remaining 50.1% ownership interest in Ruffino S.r.l. ("Ruffino") on October 5, 2011, organic net sales for the respective period are defined by the company as reported net sales less net sales of Ruffino products, as appropriate.  Organic net sales and percentage increase (decrease) in constant currency net sales (which excludes the impact of year-over-year currency exchange rate fluctuations) are provided because management uses this information in monitoring and evaluating the underlying business trends of the continuing operations of the company.  In addition, the company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year-over-year financial performance.
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL SHIPMENT, DEPLETION AND U.S. FOCUS BRANDS INFORMATION
(in millions, branded product, 9 liter case equivalents)
 
 
10
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
SUMMARIZED SEGMENT AND EQUITY EARNINGS INFORMATION
(in millions)
 
 
 
11
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(in millions, except per share data)
The company reports its financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP").  However, non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in the reconciliation tables below, are provided because management uses this information in evaluating the results of the continuing operations of the company and/or internal goal setting.  In addition, the company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year-over-year financial performance.  See the tables below for supplemental financial data and corresponding reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures for the three months ended May 31, 2012, and May 31, 2011.  Non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, the company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Please refer to the company's website at http://www.cbrands.com/investors for a more detailed description and further discussion of these non-GAAP financial measures.
 
 
 
 
12
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)
GUIDANCE - DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE AND FREE CASH FLOW
(in millions, except per share data)
 
Free Cash Flow Guidance
 
Free cash flow, as defined in the reconciliation below, is considered a liquidity measure and is considered to provide useful information to investors about the amount of cash generated, which can then be used, after required debt service and dividend payments, for other general corporate purposes.  A limitation of free cash flow is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period.  Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, cash flow from operating activities prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
13


