FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20120405171554.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At a meeting held on April 3, 2012, the Human Resources Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Constellation Brands, Inc. (the "Company") took the following actions with regard to certain compensatory arrangements for certain of the Company's senior management personnel, including its Executive Officers.
Approval of Fiscal 2013 Base Salaries
The Committee set annual base salaries, for the fiscal year ending February 28, 2013 ("Fiscal 2013"), for the Company's Executive Officers. The following table sets forth the annual base salary levels for Fiscal 2013 of those Executive Officers identified below:
 
Fiscal 2012 Incentive Awards
The Committee determined the amount to be paid in annual incentive awards under the Company's Annual Management Incentive Plan (the "AMIP") in accordance with its 2012 Fiscal Year Award Program for Executive Officers (the "2012 Program"). The following table sets forth the cash payments to those Executive Officers identified below with respect to their annual incentive awards under the 2012 Program:
Certification of Performance Results regarding Fiscal 2012 Performance Share Unit Awards
The Committee certified the achievement of Fiscal 2012 earnings per share performance sufficient for recipients of Fiscal 2012 Performance Share Unit awards (which were granted on April 5, 2011) to earn two times the target award level set forth in their respective Performance Share Unit Agreement. Each recipient's award will vest if the recipient remains in continuous employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries until May 1, 2014
(1)
. On that date each Executive Officer would earn the respective amount of the Company's Class A Common Stock as constitutes two times the individual's target award level pursuant to his respective Performance Share Unit Agreement. The following table sets forth the amounts of the Company's Class A Common Stock to be earned on May 1, 2014 by those Executive Officers identified below:
 
 
Stock Option Awards
The Committee granted options to purchase shares of the Company's Class 1 Common Stock under the Company's Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan (the "Stock Plan") to certain of the Company's
management personnel, including its Executive Officers, subject to the Terms and Conditions Memorandum with respect to the Stock Plan, the form of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The following table sets forth information regarding grants to those Executive Officers identified below:
 
 
Restricted Stock Unit Grants
The Committee granted restricted stock units under the Stock Plan to certain of the Company's management personnel, including its Executive Officers, subject to the provisions of Restricted Stock Unit Agreements, the form of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference. The restricted stock units entitle the grantee to receive a single share of the Company's Class A Common Stock for each restricted stock unit granted under the Stock Plan. On April 3, 2012, which was the date of the restricted stock unit grants, the closing price of the Company's Class A Common Stock was $24.50 per share. The following table sets forth information regarding grants to those Executive Officers identified below:
 
Performance Share Unit Awards
The Committee awarded performance share units to be settled in the Company's Class A Common Stock under the Stock Plan to certain of the Company's management personnel, including its Executive Officers, subject to the provisions of Performance Share Unit Agreements, the form of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.3 and incorporated herein by reference. The number of shares of Class A Common Stock to be issued pursuant to the performance share units will depend upon the Company's Relative Stockholder Return (as that term is defined in the Performance Share Unit Agreement) during the period from March 1, 2012 through February 28, 2015. On April 3, 2012, which was the date of the performance share unit awards, the closing price of the Company's Class A Common Stock was $24.50 per share. The following table sets forth information regarding target awards to those Executive Officers identified below:
 
 
Criteria for 2013 Fiscal Year Incentive Award
The Committee adopted the 2013 Fiscal Year Award Program for Executive Officers (the "2013 Program for Executive Officers"), thereby establishing the performance criteria and bonus opportunity under the Company's Annual Management Incentive Plan, as amended (the "AMIP"), for Fiscal 2013. Pursuant to the 2013 Program for Executive Officers, potential incentive awards for Fiscal 2013, if any, will equal 0.5% of the Company's "Earnings Before Interest and Taxes" for each of Richard Sands and Robert Sands and 0.25% of "Earnings Before Interest and Taxes" for each other executive officer, all as calculated under the AMIP and the 2013 Program for Executive Officers and measured for the period from March 1, 2012 through February 28, 2013. The Committee reserves the right to exercise its negative discretion at the end of Fiscal 2013 to reduce the amounts calculated in the preceding sentence to a bonus payment for each of the Company's executive officers that the Committee believes to be appropriate based on such quantitative and qualitative factors as it deems appropriate, including but not limited to the Company's performance.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
The CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC. Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time (the "Plan"), enables Constellation Brands, Inc. (the "Company") to grant stock options to purchase Class 1 Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company (a "Share" or the "Shares") to employees and non-employee directors of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (as defined in the Plan) (each, when granted a stock option, a "Participant"). The stock options represented by this Memorandum and the accompanying award letter (respectively, the "Options" and the Memorandum and accompanying award letter, together, the "Agreement") are subject to all of the terms and conditions contained in the Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Furthermore, the Participant agrees to pay the Company or the Employer any amount the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold, collect or pay as a result of the Participant's participation in the Plan or that cannot be satisfied by deduction from the Participant's wages or other cash compensation paid to the Participant by the Company or the Employer or sale of the shares acquired under the Plan. The Participant acknowledges that he or she may not participate in the Plan unless the tax withholding, payment and/or collection obligations of the Company or the Employer are satisfied.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BY MY ELECTRONIC ELECTION TO ACCEPT THE GRANT OF OPTIONS (WHICH SERVES AS MY ELECTRONIC SIGNATURE OF THE AGREEMENT), I AGREE THAT MY PARTICIPATION IN THE PLAN IS GOVERNED BY THE PROVISIONS OF THE PLAN AND THE AGREEMENT.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. (the "Company") hereby awards to the designated participant ("Participant"), Restricted Stock Units under the Company's Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). The principal features of this Award are set forth above, including the date of grant of the Restricted Stock Units (the "Grant Date"). This Award shall be effective on the Grant Date. The Restricted Stock Units consist of the right to receive shares of Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company ("Shares") and are subject to the provisions of the Terms and Conditions of the Agreement and the Appendix, if any, (together, the "Agreement").
PLEASE BE SURE TO READ ALL OF THE SPECIFIC TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE AGREEMENT. FOR EXAMPLE, IMPORTANT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON VESTING AND FORFEITURE OF THE RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS COVERED BY THIS AWARD IS CONTAINED IN PARAGRAPHS 2 THROUGH 7 OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS. TO THE EXTENT ANY CAPITALIZED TERMS USED IN THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS ARE NOT DEFINED HEREIN, THEY WILL HAVE THE MEANING ASCRIBED TO THEM IN THE PLAN.
BY MY ELECTRONIC ELECTION TO ACCEPT THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS GRANT OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS (WHICH SERVES AS MY ELECTRONIC SIGNATURE OF THE AGREEMENT), I AGREE THAT MY PARTICIPATION IN THE PLAN IS GOVERNED BY THE PROVISIONS OF THE PLAN AND THE AGREEMENT. IF I FAIL TO ACCEPT THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AWARD WITHIN NINETY (90) DAYS OF THE GRANT DATE SET FORTH ABOVE, THE COMPANY MAY DETERMINE THAT THIS AWARD HAS BEEN FORFEITED.
1. The Company hereby awards to the Participant under the Plan as a separate incentive and not in lieu of any salary or other compensation for his or her services, an Award of Restricted Stock Units as of the Date of Grant specified above, subject to all of the terms and conditions in the Agreement and the Plan.
.
Grant
2. .
Vesting Schedule
(a) . The Restricted Stock Units shall vest in accordance with the following vesting schedule: 25% of the Restricted Stock Units shall vest on the Initial Vesting Date specified above (the "Initial Vesting Date"); an additional 25% of the Restricted Stock Units shall vest on the first anniversary of the Initial Vesting Date; an additional 25% of the Restricted Stock Units shall vest on the second anniversary of the Initial Vesting Date; and the remaining balance of the Restricted Stock Units shall vest on the third anniversary of the Initial Vesting Date (the "Final Vesting Date"); provided, in each case, that the Participant remains in continuous employment with the Company or its Subsidiaries until such date.
Service
(b) . If the Participant ceases to be employed by the Company or its Subsidiaries prior to the Final Vesting Date as a result of the Participant's death or Disability, any Restricted Stock Units that have not vested prior to the date of the Participant's death or Disability shall immediately vest.
Death or Disability
(c) . The Restricted Stock Units are subject to the provisions of the Plan pertaining to a Change in Control of the Company.
Change in Control
(d) . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, an authorized leave of absence pursuant to a written agreement or other leave entitling the Participant to reemployment in a comparable position by law or Rule shall not constitute a termination of employment for purposes of the Plan unless the Participant does not return at or before the end of the authorized leave or within the period for which re-employment is guaranteed by law or Rule.
Leave of Absence
3. The Committee, in its absolute discretion, may accelerate the vesting of the balance, or some lesser portion of the balance, of the unvested Restricted Stock Units at any time. If so accelerated, such Restricted Stock Units shall be considered as having vested as of the date specified by the Committee.
.
Committee Discretion
4. Notwithstanding any default provision in the Plan to the contrary, subject to all applicable laws, if the Participant ceases to be employed by the Company or its Subsidiaries for any reason (including, but without limitation, Retirement or an event that results in the entity employing the Participant to cease to be the Company or a Subsidiary) before the occurrence of a vesting event set forth in Paragraph 2 above, any unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited to the Company.
.
Forfeiture
5. Any distribution or delivery to be made to the Participant under the Agreement shall, if the Participant is then deceased, be made to the Participant's designated beneficiary, or if either no beneficiary survives the Participant or the Committee does not permit beneficiary designations, to the administrator or executor of the Participant's estate. Any designation of a beneficiary by the Participant shall be effective only if such designation is made in a form and manner acceptable to the Committee. Any transferee must furnish the Company with (a) written notice of his or her status as transferee, and (b) evidence satisfactory to the Company to establish the validity of the transfer and compliance with any laws or regulations pertaining to said transfer.
.
Death of Participant
 
6. Restricted Stock Units are generally intended to be exempt from Code Section 409A as short-term deferrals and, accordingly, the terms of this Agreement shall be construed to preserve such exemption. To the extent that the Participant and this Agreement are subject to the requirements of Code Section 409A, this Agreement shall be interpreted and administered in accordance with the intent that the Participant not be subject to tax under Code Section 409A. Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries, shall be liable to any Participant (or any other individual claiming a benefit through the Participant) for any tax, interest, or penalties the Participant might owe as a result of participation in the Plan, and the Company and its Subsidiaries shall have no obligation to indemnify or otherwise protect the Participant from the obligation to pay any taxes pursuant to Section 409A, unless otherwise specified.
.
Code Section 409A
7.
Settlement of Restricted Stock Units.
(a) . Unless and until Restricted Stock Units have vested in accordance with Paragraph 2 above, the Participant will have no settlement right with respect to any Restricted Stock Units. Prior to settlement of any vested Restricted Stock Units, the vested Restricted Stock Units will represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company, payable (if at all) only from the general assets of the Company. The Participant is an unsecured general creditor of the Company, and settlement of Restricted Stock Units is subject to the claims of the Company's creditors.
Status as a Creditor
(b) . Restricted Stock Units will be settled in the form of Shares upon the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Paragraph 2 above. Fractional Shares will not be issued upon the vesting of Restricted Stock Units. Where a fractional Share would be owed to the Participant upon the vesting of Restricted Stock Units, a cash payment equivalent will be paid in place of any such fractional Share. The Shares to be issued upon settlement will be issued as soon as practicable to the Participant following each Vesting Date; provided that, in any event, such Shares will be issued no later than the date that is two and a half (2.5) months from the end of the later of (i) the Participant's tax year that includes the Vesting Date, or (ii) the Company's tax year that includes the Vesting Date. Upon issuance, Shares will be electronically transferred to an account in the Participant's name at the provider then administering the Plan as it relates to the Restricted Stock Units.
Form and Timing of Settlement
(c) . If the Company subsequently determines that it is required by law to include an additional "clawback" or "recoupment" provision to outstanding awards, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act or otherwise, then such clawback or recoupment provision shall also apply to this Award, as applicable, as if it had been included on the Date of Grant and the Company shall notify the Participant of such additional provision.
Clawback
8. . The Company or one of its Subsidiaries shall assess and withhold any federal, state or local income taxes, social security taxes, or other employment withholding taxes that may arise or be applicable in connection with the Participant's participation in the Plan, including, without limitation, any tax liability associated with the grant or vesting of the Restricted Stock Units or sale of the underlying Shares (the "Tax Liability"). These requirements may change from time to time as laws or interpretations change. Regardless of the Company's or the Subsidiary's actions in this regard, the Participant hereby acknowledges and agrees that the Tax Liability shall be the Participant's sole responsibility and liability.
Tax Liability & Withholding
 
The Participant acknowledges that the Company's obligation to issue or deliver Shares shall be subject to satisfaction of the Tax Liability. Unless otherwise determined by the Company, withholding obligations shall be satisfied by having the Company or one of its Subsidiaries withhold all or a portion of any Shares that otherwise would be issued to the Participant upon settlement of the vested Restricted Stock Units; provided that amounts withheld shall not exceed the amount necessary to satisfy the Company's tax withholding obligations. Such withheld Shares shall be valued based on the Fair Market Value as of the date the withholding obligations are satisfied. The Company or one of its Subsidiaries may also satisfy the Tax Liability by deduction from the Participant's wages or other cash compensation paid to the Participant by the Company or the Subsidiary. If the Company or a Subsidiary does not elect to have withholding obligations satisfied by either withholding Shares or by deduction from the Participant's wages or other compensation paid to the Participant by the Company or the Subsidiary, the Participant agrees to pay the Company or the Subsidiary the amount of the Tax Liability in cash (or by check) as directed by the Company or the Subsidiary. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, the Participant shall not be entitled to satisfy any Tax Liability or withholding obligations that arise as a result of this Agreement by delivering to the Company any shares of capital stock of the Company.
9. Neither the Participant nor any person claiming under or through the Participant shall have any of the rights or privileges of a stockholder of the Company in respect of any Restricted Stock Units (whether vested or unvested) unless and until such Restricted Stock Units vest and the corresponding Shares are issued. After such issuance, the Participant shall have the rights of a stockholder of the Company with respect to voting such Shares and receipt of dividends and distributions on such Shares, if any.
.
Rights as Stockholder
10. The Participant acknowledges and agrees to the following:
.
Acknowledgments
(a) The Plan is discretionary in nature and the Committee may amend, suspend, or terminate it at any time.
(b) The grant of the Restricted Stock Units is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of Restricted Stock Units, or benefits in lieu of the Restricted Stock Units even if the Restricted Stock Units have been granted repeatedly in the past.
(c) All determinations with respect to such future Restricted Stock Units, if any, including but not limited to, the times when the Restricted Stock Units shall be granted or when the Restricted Stock Units shall vest, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee.
(d) The Participant's participation in the Plan is voluntary.
(e) The Restricted Stock Units are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose, including, but not limited to, calculating termination, severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service, or similar payments, or bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits, unless so specified.
(f) The future value of the Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty.
(g) No claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from the termination or forfeiture of the Award, termination of the Plan, or diminution in value of the Restricted Stock Units or Shares and the Participant irrevocably releases the Company and its Subsidiaries from any such claim that may arise.
(h) Neither the Plan nor the Restricted Stock Units shall be construed to create an employment relationship where any employment relationship did not otherwise already exist.
 
(i) Nothing in the Agreement or the Plan shall confer upon the Participant any right to continue to be employed by the Company or any Subsidiary or shall interfere with or restrict in any way the rights of the Company or the Subsidiary, which are hereby expressly reserved, to terminate the employment of the Participant under applicable law.
(j) The transfer of the employment of the Participant between the Company and any one of its Subsidiaries (or between Subsidiaries) shall not be deemed a termination of service.
(k) Nothing herein contained shall affect the Participant's right to participate in and receive benefits under and in accordance with the then current provisions of any pension, insurance or other Participant welfare plan or program of the Company or any Subsidiary.
(l) The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding the Participant's participation in the Plan, or the Participant's acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares. The Participant is hereby advised to consult with his or her own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding his or her participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan.
(m) The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on participation in the Plan, on the Restricted Stock Units and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or other applicable Rule or facilitate the administration of the Plan, and to require the Participant to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.
11. . In the event that as a result of a stock dividend, stock split, reclassification, recapitalization, combination of Shares or the adjustment in capital stock of the Company or otherwise, or as a result of a merger, consolidation, spin-off or other reorganization, the Company's Class A Common Stock, par value $.01, shall be increased, reduced or otherwise changed, the Restricted Stock Units shall be adjusted automatically consistent with such change to prevent substantial dilution or enlargement of the rights granted to, or available for, the Participant hereunder.
Changes in Stock
12. All notices to the Company shall be in writing and sent to the Company's General Counsel at the Company's corporate headquarters. Notices to the Participant shall be addressed to the Participant at the address as from time to time reflected in the Company's employment records as the Participant's address.
.
Address for Notices
13. The Participant shall have no right to sell, assign, transfer, pledge or otherwise encumber the Restricted Stock Units in any manner until the Shares are issued to Participant upon settlement. Following settlement and issuance of Shares, in the event the Company permits Participant to arrange for sale of Shares through a broker or another designated agent of the Company, Participant acknowledges and agrees that the Company may block any such sale and/or cancel any order to sell placed by the Participant, in each case if the Participant is not then permitted under the Company's insider trading policy to engage in transactions with respect to securities of the Company. If the Committee determines that the ability of the Participant to sell or transfer Shares is restricted, then the Company may place a restrictive legend or stop transfer notation on any certificate that may be issued to represent such Shares or on its books with respect to such Shares. If a legend or stop transfer notation is placed on any certificate or the Company's books with respect to the Participant's Shares, the Participant may only sell such Shares in compliance with such legend or notation.
.
Transferability
 
14. Subject to the limitation on the transferability of this Award contained herein, the Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the heirs, legatees, legal representatives, successors and assigns of the parties hereto.
.
Binding Agreement
15. The Agreement is subject to all terms and provisions of the Plan. In the event of a conflict between one or more provisions of the Agreement and one or more provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall govern.
.
Plan Governs
16. The Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, United States of America, regardless of the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws.
.
Governing Law
17. Captions provided herein are for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of the Agreement.
.
Captions
18. In the event that any provision in the Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of the Agreement.
.
Severability
19. The Agreement constitutes the entire understanding of the parties on the subjects covered. The Participant expressly warrants that he or she is not executing the Agreement in reliance on any promises, representations, or inducements other than those contained herein. Modifications to the Agreement can be made only in an express written contract executed by a duly authorized officer of the Company.
.
Modifications to the Agreement
20. By accepting this Award, the Participant expressly warrants that he or she has received a right to an equity based award under the Plan, and has received, read, and understood a description of the Plan. The Participant understands that the Plan is discretionary in nature and may be modified, suspended, or terminated by the Company at any time.
.
Amendment, Suspension or Termination of the Plan
21. The Participant understands that the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units under the Plan and the issuance, transfer, assignment, sale, or other dealings of the Shares shall be subject to compliance by the Company (or any Subsidiary) and the Participant with all applicable requirements under the laws, rules, and regulations as may be applicable to the Participant. Furthermore, the Participant agrees that he or she will not acquire Shares pursuant to the Plan except in compliance with all under the laws and rules of the country of which the Participant is a resident.
.
Compliance with Laws and Regulations; General Restrictions on Delivery of Shares
The Company shall not be required to transfer or deliver any Shares or dividends or distributions relating to such Shares until it has been furnished with such opinions, representations or other documents as it may deem necessary or desirable, in its discretion, to insure compliance with any law or Rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other governmental authority having jurisdiction under the Plan or over the Company, the Participant, or the Shares or any interests therein. The Award of Restricted Stock Units evidenced by the Agreement is also subject to the condition that, if at any time the Committee administering the Plan shall determine, in its discretion, that the listing, registration or qualification of the Shares (or any capital stock distributed with respect thereto) upon the New York Stock Exchange (or any other securities exchange or trading market) or under any United States state or Federal law or other applicable Rule, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body, is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of the Award of Restricted Stock Units evidenced by the Agreement or the issuance, transfer or delivery of the Shares (or the
 
payment of any dividends or other distributions related to the Shares), the Company shall not be required to transfer or deliver any Shares or dividends or distributions relating to such Shares unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained to the complete satisfaction of the Committee and free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee.
22. The Participant hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use, processing and transfer of personal data. The Company, and its Subsidiaries hold certain personal information about the Participant, including the Participant's name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social security number or other employee identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any Shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all options or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, purchased, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Participant's favor, for the purpose of managing and administering the Plan (""). The Company and its related entities may transfer Data amongst themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration and management of the Participant's participation in the Plan, and the Company and its related entities may each further transfer Data to any third parties assisting the Company or any such related entity in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. The Participant acknowledges that the transferors and transferees of such Data may be located anywhere in the world and hereby authorizes each of them to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Participant's participation in the Plan, including any transfer of such Data as may be required for the administration of the Plan and/or the subsequent holding of Shares on the Participant's behalf to a broker or to other third party with whom the Participant may elect to deposit any Shares acquired under the Plan (whether pursuant to the Award or otherwise). The Participant further acknowledges that withdrawal of consent may affect his or her ability to vest in or realize benefits from the Restricted Stock Units, and his or her ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Participant understands that he or she may contact his or her human resources representative.
.
Authorization to Release and Transfer Necessary Personal Information
Data
23. The Participant hereby consents and agrees to electronic delivery of any documents that the Company may elect to deliver (including, but not limited to, plan documents, prospectus and prospectus supplements, grant or award notifications and agreements, account statements, annual and quarterly reports, and all other forms of communications) in connection with this and any other Award made or offered under the Plan. The Participant understands that, unless revoked by the Participant by giving written notice to the Company pursuant to the Plan, this consent will be effective for the duration of the Agreement. The Participant also understands that he or she will have the right at any time to request that the Company deliver written copies of any and all materials referred to above. The Participant hereby consents to any and all procedures the Company has established or may establish for an electronic signature system for delivery and acceptance of any such documents that the Company may elect to deliver, and agree that his or her electronic signature is the same as, and will have the same force and effect as, his or her manual signature. The Participant consents and agrees that any such procedures and delivery may be affected by a third party engaged by the Company to provide administrative services related to the Plan.
.
Electronic Delivery and Execution
 

Exhibit 99.3
Name of Participant:
Date of Grant:
Target Number of Performance Share Units:
Value of Each Unit on Date of Grant:
Service Vesting Date:                 [Vesting Date]
Constellation Brands, Inc. (the "Company") hereby awards to the designated participant ("Participant"), the opportunity to receive the Other Stock-Based Award described herein ("Performance Share Units") under the Company's Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Performance Share Units consist of the right to receive shares of Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company ("Shares"). Generally, you will not receive any Performance Share Units unless specified service and performance requirements are satisfied. This Performance Share Unit Agreement is subject to the attached Terms and Conditions of Performance Share Unit Agreement (collectively with this document, this "Agreement") and terms of the Plan.
PLEASE BE SURE TO READ ALL OF THE SPECIFIC TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT. FOR EXAMPLE, IMPORTANT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON VESTING AND FORFEITURE OF THE PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS COVERED BY THIS AWARD IS CONTAINED IN PARAGRAPH 2 OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS. TO THE EXTENT ANY CAPITALIZED TERMS USED IN THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS ARE NOT DEFINED HEREIN, THEY WILL HAVE THE MEANING ASCRIBED TO THEM IN THE PLAN.
BY MY ELECTRONIC ELECTION TO ACCEPT THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS GRANT OF PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS (WHICH SERVES AS MY ELECTRONIC SIGNATURE OF THIS AGREEMENT), I AGREE THAT MY PARTICIPATION IN THE PLAN IS GOVERNED BY THE PROVISIONS OF THE PLAN AND THIS AGREEMENT. IF I FAIL TO ACCEPT THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AWARD WITHIN NINETY (90) DAYS OF THE DATE OF GRANT SET FORTH ABOVE, THE COMPANY MAY DETERMINE THAT THIS AWARD HAS BEEN FORFEITED.
1. . The Company hereby awards to the Participant under the Plan as a separate incentive and not in lieu of any salary or other compensation for his or her services the opportunity to receive Performance Share Units, subject to all of the terms and conditions in this Agreement and the Plan. Generally, the Participant will not receive any Performance Share Units unless the specified service and performance requirements set forth herein are satisfied.
Summary
2. .
Vesting in Performance Share Units
(a) . Except as otherwise provided in Section 2(b), both performance and service vesting requirements must be satisfied before the Participant can earn Performance Share Units under this Agreement. With certain exceptions noted below, the Participant will vest in his/her right to receive Performance Share Units under this Agreement if the Participant remains in continuous employment with the Company or its Subsidiaries until the Service Vesting Date (as set forth on the first page of this Agreement) and the Company achieves the "Relative Stockholder Return" targets specified in Schedule A. If the Participant remains in continuous employment with the Company or its Subsidiaries until the Service Vesting Date, the Participant shall vest in his/her right to receive a number of Performance Share Units based on the performance matrix set forth in Schedule A. Schedule A sets forth how the number of the Participant's vested Performance Share Units is calculated.
Performance and service vesting requirements
(b) .
Special Vesting Rules
(i) . If the Participant dies or incurs a PSU Disability (as defined below) while employed by the Company or its Subsidiaries prior to the Service Vesting Date, the Participant shall vest in a number of Performance Share Units equal to the number of the Participant's Target Number of Performance Share Units. A "PSU Disability" is a disability as defined under Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(4)(i)(A) which generally means that the Participant is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months. Any Performance Share Units that do not vest under this provision shall be forfeited upon the Participant's death or PSU Disability.
Death or PSU Disability
(ii) . The Performance Share Units are subject to the following rules in the event the Participant remains in continuous employment with the Company or its Subsidiaries until the date of a change in control described in this subsection, which rules shall apply in lieu of the default Change in Control provisions under the Plan. Upon the occurrence of an event that: (A) occurs before the Service Vesting Date; (B) is a Change in Control; and (C) constitutes a change in ownership or effective control of the Company or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company within the meaning of Code Section 409A (a "PSU Change in Control"), the Participant shall vest in a number of Performance Share Units equal to the number of the Participant's Target Number of Performance Share Units; provided that such Performance Share Units were not previously forfeited. Any
PSU Change in Control
Performance Share Units that do not vest upon a PSU Change in Control shall be forfeited upon the PSU Change of Control.
(iii) . In the event that the Participant ceases to be employed by the Company or its Subsidiaries prior to the Service Vesting Date or, if earlier, the date of a PSU Change in Control for any reason other than death or PSU Disability, the Participant shall forfeit his/her right to all unvested and unpaid Performance Share Units. The Participant will cease to be employed by the Company or its Subsidiaries if the Participant is employed by an entity that ceases to be a Subsidiary.
Other Termination
3. . Payouts of vested Performance Share Units shall be made in the form of shares of the Company's Class A Stock. Each Performance Share Unit awarded under this Agreement consists of the right to receive one share of Class A Stock. Vested Performance Share Units shall be paid as follows:
Time and Form of Payment
(a) . The Participant's vested Performance Share Units under Section 2(a) shall be paid on or after May 1, but no later than May 15, , but payment shall only be made after the Committee completes the written certification set forth in Section 6(d) below with respect to this Award.
Payments for Reasons other than Death, PSU Disability or PSU Change of Control
            
            
(b) . If the Participant dies or incurs a PSU Disability while employed by the Company or its Subsidiaries prior to the Service Vesting Date, the Participant's vested Performance Share Units shall be paid within 60 days following the date of the Participant's death or PSU Disability.
Death or PSU Disability
(c) . Upon the occurrence of an event that is a PSU Change in Control, the Participant's vested Performance Share Units shall be paid on or within 60 days following the date of such PSU Change in Control.
PSU Change in Control
4. . The Committee has complete and full discretionary authority to make all decisions and determinations under this Agreement, and all decisions and determinations by the Committee will be final and binding upon all persons, including, but not limited to, the Participant and his/her personal representatives, heirs and assigns.
Committee Discretion
5. . Any distribution or delivery to be made to the Participant under this Agreement shall, if the Participant is then deceased, be made to the Participant's designated beneficiary, or if no beneficiary survives the Participant, the Participant does not designate any beneficiary or the Committee does not permit beneficiary designations, to the administrator or executor of the Participant's estate. Any designation of a beneficiary by the Participant shall be effective only if such designation is made in a form and manner acceptable to the Committee. Any such permitted transferee upon the Participant's death must furnish the Company with (a) written notice of his or her status as transferee, and (b) evidence satisfactory to the Company to establish the validity of the transfer and compliance with any laws or regulations pertaining to said transfer.
Death of Participant
 
6. . This Award is intended to comply with the requirements of Code Section 162(m) and the provisions of this Award shall be interpreted and administered consistently with that intent. In that light, the following rules shall apply to the award:
Code Section 162(m)
(a) The Committee shall establish the performance targets and terms of this Agreement within 90 days of the commencement of the Company's fiscal year. The satisfaction of the performance targets for paying Performance Share Units shall be substantially uncertain at the time they are established.
            
(b) The amount of Performance Share Units that vest shall be computed under an objective formula and the Committee shall have no discretionary authority to increase the amount of the Performance Share Units that vest or alter the methodology for calculating the Performance Share Units that vest, except as permitted by Code Section 162(m) and the Plan.
(c) The maximum amount the Participant can receive under the Plan for all Other Stock-Based Awards in any fiscal year cannot exceed $5 million.
(d) Before any Performance Share Units are paid to the Participant, the Committee will certify, in writing, the Company's satisfaction of the pre-established performance target and the number of Performance Share Units payable to the Participant.
7. . Performance Share Units are generally intended to be exempt from Code Section 409A as short-term deferrals and, accordingly, the terms of this Agreement shall be construed to preserve such exemption. To the extent that this Agreement is subject to the requirements of Code Section 409A, this Agreement shall be interpreted and administered in accordance with the intent that the Participant not be subject to tax under Code Section 409A. Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be liable to any Participant (or any other individual claiming a benefit through the Participant) for any tax, interest, or penalties the Participant might owe as a result of participation in the Plan, and the Company and its Subsidiaries shall have no obligation to indemnify or otherwise protect the Participant from the obligation to pay any taxes pursuant to Section 409A, unless otherwise specified.
Code Section 409A
8. .
Settlement of Performance Share Units
(a) . Unless and until Performance Share Units have vested in accordance with Section 2 above and become payable under Section 3 above, the Participant will have no settlement right with respect to any Performance Share Units. Prior to settlement of any vested Performance Share Units, the vested Performance Share Units will represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company, payable (if at all) only from the general assets of the Company. The Participant is an unsecured general creditor of the Company, and settlement of Performance Share Units is subject to the claims of the Company's creditors.
Status as a Creditor
(b) . Performance Share Units will be settled in the form of Shares of Class A Stock. Fractional Shares will not be issued upon the vesting of Performance Share Units. In the event that a fractional Share is owed to the Participant, instead of paying such fractional Share, the Company shall round up the Shares that are payable to the Participant to the nearest whole number. Upon issuance, Shares will be electronically transferred
Form of Settlement
 
to an account in the Participant's name at the provider then administering the Plan as it relates to the Performance Share Units.
(c) . If the Company subsequently determines that it is required by law to include an additional "clawback" or "recoupment" provision to outstanding awards, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act or otherwise, then such clawback or recoupment provision shall also apply to this Award, as applicable, as if it had been included on the Date of Grant and the Company shall notify the Participant of such additional provision.
Clawback
9. . The Company or one of its Subsidiaries shall assess and withhold any federal, state or local income taxes, social security taxes, or other employment withholding taxes that may arise or be applicable in connection with the Participant's participation in the Plan, including, without limitation, any tax liability associated with the grant or vesting of the Performance Share Units or sale of the underlying Shares (the "Tax Liability"). These requirements may change from time to time as laws or interpretations change. Regardless of the Company's or the Subsidiary's actions in this regard, the Participant hereby acknowledges and agrees that the Tax Liability shall be the Participant's sole responsibility and liability.
Tax Liability and Withholding
The Participant acknowledges that the Company's obligation to issue or deliver Shares shall be subject to satisfaction of the Tax Liability. Unless otherwise determined by the Company, withholding obligations shall be satisfied by having the Company or one of its Subsidiaries withhold all or a portion of any Shares that otherwise would be issued to the Participant upon settlement of the vested Performance Share Units; provided that amounts withheld shall not exceed the amount necessary to satisfy the Company's tax withholding obligations. Such withheld Shares shall be valued based on the Fair Market Value as of the date the withholding obligations are satisfied. The Company or one of its Subsidiaries may also satisfy the Tax Liability by deduction from the Participant's wages or other cash compensation paid to the Participant by the Company or the Subsidiary. If the Company or a Subsidiary does not elect to have withholding obligations satisfied by either withholding Shares or by deduction from the Participant's wages or other compensation paid to the Participant by the Company or the Subsidiary, the Participant agrees to pay the Company or the Subsidiary the amount of the Tax Liability in cash (or by check) as directed by the Company or the Subsidiary. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, the Participant shall not be entitled to satisfy any Tax Liability or withholding obligations that arise as a result of this Agreement by delivering to the Company any shares of capital stock of the Company.
10. . Neither the Participant nor any person claiming under or through the Participant shall have any of the rights or privileges of a stockholder of the Company in respect of any Performance Share Units (whether vested or unvested) or underlying Shares unless and until such Performance Share Units vest and the corresponding Shares are issued. After such issuance, the Participant shall have the rights of a stockholder of the Company with respect to voting such Shares and receipt of dividends and distributions on such Shares, if any.
Rights as Stockholder
 
11. . The Participant acknowledges and agrees to the following:
Acknowledgments
(a) The Plan is discretionary in nature and the Committee may amend, suspend, or terminate it at any time.
(b) The grant of the Performance Share Units is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of Performance Share Units, or benefits in lieu of the Performance Share Units, even if the Performance Share Units have been granted repeatedly in the past.
(c) All determinations with respect to future Performance Share Units, if any, including, but not limited to, the times when Performance Share Units shall be granted or when Performance Share Units shall vest, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee.
(d) The Participant's participation in the Plan is voluntary.
(e) The value of the Performance Share Units is an extraordinary item of compensation, which is outside the scope of the Participant's employment contract (if any), except as may otherwise be explicitly provided in the Participant's employment contract (if any).
(f) The Performance Share Units are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose, including, but not limited to, calculating termination, severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service, or similar payments, or bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits.
(g) The future value of the Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty.
(h) No claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from the termination or forfeiture of the Award, termination of the Plan, or diminution in value of the Performance Share Units or Shares, and the Participant irrevocably releases the Company and its Subsidiaries from any such claim that may arise.
(i) Neither the Plan nor the Performance Share Units shall be construed to create an employment relationship where any employment relationship did not otherwise already exist.
(j) Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan shall confer upon the Participant any right to continue to be employed by the Company or any Subsidiary or shall interfere with or restrict in any way the rights of the Company or the Subsidiary, which are hereby expressly reserved, to terminate the employment of the Participant under applicable law.
(k) The transfer of the employment of the Participant between the Company and any one of its Subsidiaries (or between Subsidiaries) shall not be deemed a termination of service.
(l) Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the Participant's right to participate in and receive benefits under and in accordance with the then current provisions of any pension, insurance or other employee welfare plan or program of the Company or any Subsidiary in which the Participant is entitled to participate.
(m) The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding the Participant's participation in the Plan, or the Participant's acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares. The Participant is hereby advised
 
to consult with his or her own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding his or her participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan.
(n) The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on participation in the Plan, on the Performance Share Units and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or other applicable Rule or facilitate the administration of the Plan, and to require the Participant to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.
12. . In the event that as a result of a stock dividend, stock split, reclassification, recapitalization, combination of Shares or the adjustment in capital stock of the Company or otherwise, or as a result of a merger, consolidation, spin-off or other reorganization, the Company's Class A Stock shall be increased, reduced or otherwise changed, the Performance Share Units shall be adjusted automatically consistent with such change to prevent substantial dilution or enlargement of the rights granted to, or available for, the Participant hereunder.
Changes in Stock
13. . All notices to the Company shall be in writing and sent to the Company's General Counsel at the Company's corporate headquarters. Notices to the Participant shall be addressed to the Participant at the address as from time to time reflected in the Company's employment records as the Participant's address.
Address for Notices
14. . The Participant shall have no right to sell, assign, transfer, pledge or otherwise encumber the Performance Share Units in any manner. Shares may be sold, assigned, transferred or encumbered only after they are issued to the Participant upon settlement. Following the settlement and issuance of Shares, in the event the Company permits the Participant to arrange for a sale of Shares through a broker or another designated agent of the Company, the Participant acknowledges and agrees that the Company may block any such sale and/or cancel any order to sell placed by the Participant, in each case if the Participant is not then permitted under the Company's insider trading policy to engage in transactions with respect to securities of the Company. If the Committee determines that the ability of the Participant to sell or transfer Shares is restricted, then the Company may place a restrictive legend or stop transfer notation on any certificate that may be issued to represent such Shares or on its books with respect to such Shares. If a legend or stop transfer notation is placed on any certificate or the Company's books with respect to the Participant's Shares, the Participant may only sell such Shares in compliance with such legend or notation.
Transferability
15. . Subject to the limitation on the transferability of this Award contained herein, this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the heirs, legatees, legal representatives, successors and assigns of the parties hereto.
Binding Agreement
16. . This Agreement is subject to all terms and provisions of the Plan. Capitalized terms not defined in this Agreement shall have the respective meanings given to such terms in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between one or more provisions of this Agreement and one or more provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall govern.
Plan Governs
 
17. . This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, United States of America, regardless of the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws.
Governing Law
18. . Captions provided herein are for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of this Agreement.
Captions
19. . In the event that any provision in this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Severability
20. . This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding of the parties on the subjects covered. The Participant expressly warrants that he or she is not executing this Agreement in reliance on any promises, representations, or inducements other than those contained herein. Modifications to this Agreement can be made only in an express written contract executed by a duly authorized officer of the Company.
Modifications to this Agreement
21. . By accepting this Award, the Participant expressly warrants that he or she has received a right to an Other Stock-Based Award under the Plan, and has received, read, and understood a description of the Plan. The Participant understands that the Plan is discretionary in nature and may be modified, suspended, or terminated by the Company at any time.
Amendment, Suspension or Termination of the Plan
22. . The Participant understands that the vesting of the Performance Share Units under the Plan and the issuance, transfer, assignment, sale, or other dealings of the Shares shall be subject to compliance by the Company (or any Subsidiary) and the Participant with all applicable requirements under the laws, rules, and regulations of the country of which the Participant is a resident. Furthermore, the Participant agrees that he or she will not acquire Shares pursuant to the Plan except in compliance with all under the laws and Rules of the country of which the Participant is a resident.
Compliance with Laws and Regulations; General Restrictions on Delivery of Shares
The Company shall not be required to transfer or deliver any Shares or dividends or distributions relating to such Shares until it has been furnished with such opinions, representations or other documents as it may deem necessary or desirable, in its discretion, to insure compliance with any law or Rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other governmental authority having jurisdiction under the Plan or over the Company, the Participant, or the Shares or any interests therein. The award of Performance Share Units evidenced by this Agreement is also subject to the condition that, if at any time the Committee administering the Plan shall determine, in its discretion, that the listing, registration or qualification of the Shares (or any capital stock distributed with respect thereto) upon the New York Stock Exchange (or any other securities exchange or trading market) or under any United States state or Federal law or other applicable Rule, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body, is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of the Performance Share Units evidenced by this Agreement or the issuance, transfer or delivery of the Shares (or the payment of any dividends or other distributions related to the Shares), the Company shall not be required to transfer or deliver any Shares or dividends
 
or distributions relating to such Shares unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained to the complete satisfaction of the Committee and free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee.
23. . The Participant hereby consents and agrees to electronic delivery of any documents that the Company may elect to deliver (including, but not limited to, plan documents, prospectus and prospectus supplements, grant or award notifications and agreements, account statements, annual and quarterly reports, and all other forms of communications) in connection with this and any other Award made or offered under the Plan. The Participant understands that, unless revoked by the Participant by giving written notice to the Company pursuant to the Plan, this consent will be effective for the duration of this Agreement. The Participant also understands that he or she will have the right at any time to request that the Company deliver written copies of any and all materials referred to above. The Participant hereby consents to any and all procedures the Company has established or may establish for an electronic signature system for delivery and acceptance of any such documents that the Company may elect to deliver, and agrees that his or her electronic signature is the same as, and will have the same force and effect as, his or her manual signature. The Participant consents and agrees that any such procedures and delivery may be effected by a third party engaged by the Company to provide administrative services related to the Plan.
Electronic Delivery and Execution
 
The number of Performance Share Units to which the Participant will be entitled if the Participant satisfies the applicable service requirements will be calculated by the Committee based on the Company's "Relative Stockholder Return" (as defined below) for the specified period. Specifically, the Committee shall calculate the number of vested Performance Share Units for the Participant if the Participant satisfies the applicable service requirements by multiplying the Participant's Target Number of Performance Share Units by the applicable percentage determined as set forth below based on the Company's Relative Stockholder Return results for the specified period. As noted in the Terms and Conditions to this Agreement, special rules apply under certain circumstances, such as death, PSU Disability and PSU Change in Control.
The following table shall apply for calculating this Award:
 
The maximum percentage by which the Participant's Target Number of Performance Share Units is multiplied cannot exceed 200%, and no Performance Share Units shall vest unless the Company's Relative Stockholder Return performance for the specified period is equal to or greater than the level required to earn an award of 25% of the Participant's Target Number of Performance Share Units.
If the Company's Relative Stockholder Return performance falls between designated levels of performance set forth in the above table, the percentage by which the Participant's Target Number of Performance Share Units is multiplied will be calculated by linear interpolation.
Relative Stockholder Return shall mean the percentage increase in the fair market value of a share of the Company's Class A Common Stock during the period from March 1, through February __, (the "Valuation Period") measured relative to the percentage increase in the fair market value of stocks included in the S&P 500 Index over the Valuation Period as set forth in this Schedule A (the "Comparator Group"). Specifically, the percentage increase in the fair market value of a share of the Company's Class A Common Stock during the Valuation Period will be ranked against the percentage increase in the fair market value of a share of stock for each company in Comparator Group during the Valuation Period. The Comparator Group shall consist of those companies that are included in the S&P 500 Index on both the last day of the Company's fiscal year (February __, ) and the last day of the Company's fiscal year (February __, ) and only relates to the class of stock included in that index. The following rule shall apply with respect to the Comparator Group:
            
            
            
            
            
            
 
 
Relative Stockholder Return shall be measured based on the fair market value of each applicable company's stock on the last trading day prior to the commencement of the Company's fiscal year on March 1, as compared to the fair market value of that same company's stock on the last trading day of the Company's fiscal year ending on February __, . The fair market value of the Company's Class A Common Stock shall mean the closing price of a share of that stock on the New York Stock Exchange or other national stock exchange on which that stock is actively traded for that date as reported in the Wall Street Journal, Eastern Edition or such other standard reference service as the Committee may select. The fair market value of a share of the common stock of a company in the Comparator Group shall mean the closing price of a share of that stock on the New York Stock Exchange or other national stock exchange on which that stock is actively traded for that date as reported in the Wall Street Journal, Eastern Edition or such other standard reference service as the Committee may select. The percentile ranking of the Company's Relative Stockholder Return shall be that fraction which is calculated by dividing the number of companies in the Comparator Group whose performance is exceeded by the Company (based on the increase in the value of the Company's stock) by the total number of companies in the Comparator Group.
            
            
            
            
Except as noted in this Schedule A, no adjustments for Extraordinary Items shall be made when calculating Relative Stockholder Return.
 


