FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20121005085509.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 5, 2012, Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation Brands), a Delaware corporation, issued a news release (the release) announcing its financial condition and results of operations as of and for the second fiscal quarter ended August 31, 2012.  A copy of the release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.  The projections constituting the guidance included in the release involve risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at this time and, therefore, actual results may vary materially from these forecasts.  In this regard, see the information included in the release under the caption Forward-Looking Statements.
 
The information in the release is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Such information may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
The release contains non-GAAP financial measures; in the release these are referred to as comparable, organic or constant currency measures.  For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented.  In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Constellation Brands has provided reconciliations within the release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Comparable measures, organic net sales measures and constant currency measures are provided because management uses this information in monitoring and evaluating the results and underlying business trends of the continuing operations of Constellation Brands and/or in internal goal setting.  In addition, Constellation Brands believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year-over-year financial performance.  As such, the following items, including any related income tax effect, are excluded from comparable results, when appropriate:  the flow through of inventory step-up associated with acquisitions accelerated depreciation in connection with certain restructuring activities; other costs incurred in connection with certain restructuring activities; gains and/or losses in connection with the disposal of businesses and/or assets, including assets held for sale; losses on the contractual obligation created by the notification by a shareholder of Ruffino S.r.l. (Ruffino) to exercise its option to put its entire equity interest in Ruffino to Constellation Brands; impairments of certain intangible assets; restructuring charges; net gains in connection with the acquisition of the remaining portion of Ruffino; gains in connection with releases from certain contractual obligations; loss on write-off of financing costs; and transaction and related costs associated with pending and completed acquisitions. Constellation Brands acquired the remaining portion of Ruffino on October 5, 2011 and the Mark West wine brand and certain related assets (Mark West) on July 16, 2012.  Accordingly, during the indicated periods, organic net sales measures exclude the net sales of Ruffino and Mark West products, as appropriate.  Constant currency measures exclude the impact of year-over-year currency exchange rate fluctuations.
;
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 5, 2012, Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation Brands) issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
References to Constellation Brands' website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation Brands disclaims any such incorporation by reference.  The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD.  This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
18
*Definitions of reported and comparable, as well as reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures, are contained elsewhere in this news release.
**Hereafter referred to as equity earnings.
NA=Not applicable
 
 
1
 
 
 Constellation Brands, Inc. (CBI) (NYSE: STZ and STZ.B), the worlds leading premium wine company, reported today its second quarter 2013 results.
VICTOR, N.Y., Oct. 5, 2012
As we execute our profitable, organic growth strategy, we are encouraged by the strength of our core beer, wine and spirits businesses including the success of our new product introductions and innovation pipeline across our entire portfolio of outstanding brands, said Rob Sands, president and chief executive officer, CBI.  We remain excited about the prospect of owning 100 percent of Crown Imports, which represents a transformational step for our company as it will solidify Constellations position in the U.S. beer industry for the long term. This transaction is still targeted to close during the first quarter of calendar 2013.
Net Sales Commentary
Wine and spirits net sales on an organic constant currency basis were even with the prior year second quarter and reflected an increase in volume, primarily offset by higher promotional costs.
I am pleased with our strong marketplace performance during the quarter especially in the SymphonyIRI channels where our excellent brand portfolio is currently outperforming the market, said Sands.  As expected, our enhanced, yet disciplined marketing and promotional efforts are paying off. Some of our new brands including Simply Naked, Primal Roots and The Dreaming Tree, recently received Impact Hot Prospect Awards and on the spirits side, we are seeing excellent consumer response to the launches of SVEDKA Colada flavored vodka and Black Velvet Toasted Caramel whisky.
Operating Income and Net Income Commentary
The decrease in consolidated comparable basis operating income was driven primarily by increased SG&A expenses and a planned increase in promotional spending for the companys U.S. wine and spirits business, due in part to support innovation initiatives.
The companys equity earnings from its 50 percent interest in the Crown joint venture totaled $71 million compared to $63 million from the prior year second quarter. For second quarter 2013, Crown generated net sales of $788 million, an increase of eight percent, and operating income of $143 million, an increase of 14 percent.  The increase in net sales and operating income was primarily driven by volume growth.
 
 
2
 
 
The second quarter marks the tenth consecutive quarter that Crown has outperformed the U.S. beer industry and the import category driven by strong portfolio performance led by Modelo Especial, said Sands. Crowns marketplace execution is also being fueled by creative advertising and retail programs including the Win Your Beach sweepstakes promotion, Coronas Find Your Beach campaign and Corona Lights new Refreshing Change of Beer ads.
Interest expense totaled $55 million, an increase of 28 percent. The increase was primarily due to higher average borrowings and an increase in average interest rates.
The comparable basis effective tax rate for second quarter 2013 was 16.3 percent compared to a 3.1 percent rate for the prior year second quarter. Both periods reflect favorable benefits from various tax items. The company now anticipates the full year effective tax rate for fiscal 2013 to approximate 30 percent, which is the primary driver of the improved comparable basis diluted EPS guidance for the year.
Free Cash Flow Commentary
Free cash flow for the first six months of fiscal 2013 totaled $333 million as compared to $478 million for the same period last year. The decrease was primarily due to the receipt of tax refunds in the prior year period.
During the second quarter, we secured permanent financing for the Crown transaction, said Bob Ryder, chief financial officer, CBI. As part of this activity, we took advantage of our improved credit profile and an attractive interest rate environment by issuing $650 million of 4.625% Senior Notes due March 2023. At the same time, we amended our senior credit facility to establish a $575 million delayed draw term loan. We plan to use our revolving credit facility and available cash for the remaining funding requirements for the Crown transaction.
 
 
3
 
 
Given the early funding related to the senior notes issuance, the company now anticipates interest expense for fiscal 2013 to be in the range of $225 to $235 million, an increase of $15 million versus prior guidance. Despite the increased interest expense, our strong first half operating cash flow results provide enough visibility to increase our fiscal 2013 free cash flow expectations. Ryder concluded.
 
Outlook
The table below sets forth managements current diluted EPS expectations for fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 actual results, both on a reported basis and a comparable basis.
Full-year fiscal 2013 guidance includes the following current assumptions, but excludes any impact from the closing of the purchase of the remaining 50 percent interest in the Crown Imports joint venture:
Conference Call
A conference call to discuss second quarter 2013 results and outlook will be hosted by President and Chief Executive Officer Rob Sands and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Bob Ryder on Fri., Oct. 5, 2012 at 10:30 a.m. (eastern).  The conference call can be accessed by dialing +973-935-8505 beginning 10 minutes prior to the start of the call.  A live listen-only webcast of the conference call, together with a copy of this news release (including the attachments) and other financial information that may be discussed during the call will be available on the Internet at the companys website: www.cbrands.com under Investors, prior to the call.
Explanations
Reported basis (reported) operating income, net income and diluted EPS are as reported under generally accepted accounting principles.  Operating income, net income and diluted EPS on a comparable basis (comparable), exclude restructuring charges and unusual items.  The companys measure of segment profitability excludes restructuring charges and unusual items, which is consistent with the measure used by management to evaluate results.
The company discusses additional non-GAAP measures in this news release, including constant currency net sales, organic net sales, comparable basis EBIT, comparable basis effective tax rate and free cash flow.
 
 
4
 
 
Supplemental Financial Information
Tables reconciling non-GAAP measures, together with definitions of these measures and the reasons management uses these measures, are attached to and are part of this news release.
About Constellation Brands, Inc.
As the worlds leader in premium wine, Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ, STZ:B) is a S&P 500 Index and a Fortune 1000 company with 4,400 employees, sales in 100 countries and operations in 40 facilities worldwide. The company manages a broad portfolio of more than 100 wines, beers and spirits that include: Robert Mondavi, Clos du Bois, Kim Crawford, Inniskillin, Franciscan Estate, Mark West, Ruffino, Simi, Estancia, Corona Extra, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and SVEDKA Vodka. Learn more at .
www.cbrands.com
Forward-Looking Statements
The statements made under the heading Outlook, and all statements other than statements of historical fact set forth in this news release regarding Constellation Brands business strategy, future operations, financial position, estimated revenues, projected costs, prospects, plans and objectives of management, as well as information concerning expected actions of third parties, are forward-looking statements (collectively, the Projections) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the Projections.
During the current quarter, Constellation Brands may reiterate the Projections.  Prior to the start of the company's quiet period, which will begin at the close of business on Nov. 30, 2012, the public can continue to rely on the Projections as still being Constellation Brands' current expectations on the matters covered, unless the company publishes a notice stating otherwise. During Constellation Brands quiet period, the Projections should not be considered to constitute the companys expectations and should be considered historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet period only and not subject to update by the company.
The Projections are based on management's current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination, divestiture, restructuring or other strategic business realignments, financing or share repurchase that may be completed after the date of this release. The Projections should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur.  The transaction between Constellation Brands and Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV regarding the purchase by Constellation Brands of the 50% portion of Crown Imports LLC which Constellation Brands does not already own (the Crown Acquisition) is subject to the satisfaction of certain closing conditions, including receipt of necessary regulatory approvals and the consummation of certain transactions between Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV and Grupo Modelo, S.A.B. de C.V., and certain of its affiliates (the Modelo Transaction).  There can be no assurance the Crown Acquisition will occur or will occur on the timetable projected by the company.  The availability of financing under the companys senior credit facility is subject to satisfaction of the terms and conditions contained in the underlying documents.
In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the Projections of the company contained in this news release are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in millions)
 
7
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(in millions, except per share data)
 
8
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in millions)
 
9
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATION OF REPORTED, ORGANIC AND CONSTANT CURRENCY NET SALES
(in millions)
As the company acquired the remaining 50.1% ownership interest in Ruffino S.r.l. ("Ruffino") on October 5, 2011, and the Mark West wine brand and certain related assets ("Mark West") on July 16, 2012, organic net sales for the three months and six months ended August 31, 2012, are defined by the company as reported net sales less net sales of Ruffino and Mark West products, as appropriate.  Organic net sales and percentage increase (decrease) in constant currency net sales (which excludes the impact of year-over-year currency exchange rate fluctuations) are provided because management uses this information in monitoring and evaluating the underlying business trends of the continuing operations of the company.  In addition, the company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year-over-year financial performance.
 
 
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL SHIPMENT, DEPLETION AND U.S. FOCUS BRANDS INFORMATION
(in millions, branded product, 9 liter case equivalents)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
SUMMARIZED SEGMENT AND EQUITY EARNINGS INFORMATION
(in millions)
 
 
 
NM = Not Meaningful
 
 
11
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(in millions, except per share data)
The company reports its financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP").  However, non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in the reconciliation tables below, are provided because management uses this information in evaluating the results of the continuing operations of the company and/or internal goal setting.  In addition, the company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year-over-year financial performance.  See the tables below for supplemental financial data and corresponding reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures for the three months and six months ended August 31, 2012, and August 31, 2011.  Non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, the company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Please refer to the company's website at http://www.cbrands.com/investors for a more detailed description and further discussion of these non-GAAP financial measures.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)
GUIDANCE - DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE AND FREE CASH FLOW
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Free Cash Flow Guidance
Free cash flow, as defined in the reconciliation below, is considered a liquidity measure and is considered to provide useful information to investors about the amount of cash generated, which can then be used, after required debt service and dividend payments, for other general corporate purposes.  A limitation of free cash flow is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period.  Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, cash flow from operating activities prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
14


