FILE:STZ/STZ-8K-20120105091250.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 
CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC.
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code
   
(585) 678-7100
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 5, 2012, Constellation Brands, Inc. (the Company), a Delaware corporation, issued a news release (the release) announcing its financial condition and results of operations as of and for the third fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2011.  A copy of the release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.  The projections constituting the guidance included in the release involve risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at this time and, therefore, actual results may vary materially from these forecasts.  In this regard, see the information included in the release under the caption Forward-Looking Statements.
 
The information in the release is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Such information may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
The release contains non-GAAP financial measures; in the release these are referred to as comparable, organic or constant currency measures.  For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented.  In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Comparable measures, organic net sales measures and constant currency measures are provided because management uses this information in monitoring and evaluating the results and underlying business trends of the continuing operations of the Company and/or in internal goal setting.  In addition, the Company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year-over-year financial performance.  As such, the following items, including any related income tax effect, are excluded from comparable results, when appropriate:  the flow through of inventory step-up associated with an acquisition; accelerated depreciation in connection with certain restructuring activities; the write-down of inventory in connection with the disposal of a business; other costs incurred in connection with certain restructuring and/or integration activities; gains in connection with the disposal of a business and/or assets, including assets held for sale; losses on the contractual obligation created by the notification by a shareholder of Ruffino S.r.l. (Ruffino) to exercise its option to put its entire equity interest in Ruffino to the Company; acquisition-related integration costs; impairments of certain intangible assets; restructuring charges; a loss in connection with an equity method investees disposal of a business; a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets in the United Kingdom; and net gains in connection with the acquisition of the remaining portion of Ruffino.  The Company sold 80.1% of its Australian and United Kingdom business on January 31, 2011.  Accordingly, during the indicated periods, organic net sales measures exclude the net sales of the Australian and United Kingdom business together with net sales of the Constellation North American business previously sold through the Companys Australian and United Kingdom business, as appropriate.  Constant currency measures exclude the impact of year-over-year currency exchange rate fluctuations.
 
 
 
 
On January 5, 2012, Constellation Brands, Inc. (Constellation) issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
References to Constellations website in the release do not incorporate by reference the information on such website into this Current Report on Form 8-K and Constellation disclaims any such incorporation by reference.  The information in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 in satisfaction of the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD.  This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is not otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  It may be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 only if and to the extent such subsequent filing specifically references the information incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
18
 Constellation Brands, Inc. (NYSE: STZ), the worlds leading premium wine company, reported today its third quarter 2012 results.
VICTOR, N.Y., Jan. 5, 2012
 
 
1
 
 
Our third quarter results were generally consistent with our expectations for the business and reflect continuing progress particularly in the areas of free cash flow generation and improving depletion trends for our U.S. wine and spirits business. I am especially pleased with the ongoing momentum from our new product development and brand building initiatives, said Rob Sands, president and chief executive officer, Constellation Brands.
*Definitions of reported, comparable, organic and constant currency, as well as reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures, are contained elsewhere in this news release.
** Hereafter referred to as equity earnings.
NA=Not applicable
(1) Prior to the divestiture of the Australian and U.K. business, net sales from CWNA to CWAE were eliminated as intercompany net sales. Subsequent to the divestiture, these net sales are now recorded as third party net sales. Accordingly, the prior period intercompany net sales are added back to the prior period reported net sales for comparison purposes.
 
Net Sales Commentary
 
Reported consolidated net sales decreased 27 percent due primarily to the divestiture of the Australian and U.K. wine business.
 
North American net sales on an organic constant currency basis decreased eight percent primarily due to a decrease in volume driven largely by the overlap of distributor inventory build in the third quarter last year as part of the U.S. distributor consolidation initiative. However, we are on track to meet our comparable basis EPS goal for the year and expect to see improving sales trends in the fourth quarter, said Sands. We are experiencing improving depletion and marketplace performance driven by our focus brands and new products including Simply Naked, Primal Roots, the Dreaming Tree, Rex Goliath Moscato, Woodbridge Malbec, Ruffino Prosecco and Arbor Mist Pomegranate Berry Pinot Noir.
 
Operating Income and Net Income Commentary
 
The decrease in consolidated comparable basis operating income was driven primarily by lower volume in North America, partially offset by lower corporate expenses.
 
 
2
 
Constellations equity earnings from its 50 percent interest in the Crown Imports joint venture totaled $43 million, a decrease of 25 percent from the prior year.  For third quarter 2012, Crown generated net sales of $541 million, a decrease of 12 percent, and operating income of $87 million, a decrease of 25 percent.  The decrease in net sales for Crown was primarily driven by lower volume due to the overlap of the prior year third quarter distributor inventory rebuild subsequent to the supply chain issues experienced during the summer of 2010. Operating income decreased primarily as a result of the lower volume and higher marketing spend.
 
During the third quarter, depletions increased mid-single digits driven by Modelo Especial, Victoria and Corona Familiar, said Sands. Crown had great success with enhanced marketing efforts related to the Find Your Beach advertising campaign and incremental investments during the National Football League season. Crown continues to outperform the industry, the import category and other major suppliers in the marketplace.
 
For third quarter 2012, pre-tax restructuring charges and unusual items totaled a benefit of $8 million compared to expense of $6 million for the prior year third quarter.
 
Interest expense totaled $46 million, a decrease of six percent. The decrease was primarily due to lower average borrowings.
 
The comparable basis effective tax rate for the quarter was 37 percent compared to a 29 percent rate for the prior year third quarter, which reflected the favorable outcome of various tax items.
 
Free Cash Flow and Common Stock Repurchases Commentary
 
Free cash flow for nine months 2012 totaled $587 million. During third quarter 2012, the company repurchased 5.2 million shares of common stock at a cost of $94 million. The company has purchased 15 million shares at a cost of $281 million during nine months 2012.
 
The company has increased its fiscal 2012 free cash flow target by $100 million to a range of $700 to $750 million, said Bob Ryder, chief financial officer, Constellation Brands. Our continued strong free cash flow generation enabled us to reduce our debt, fund the stock repurchases and acquire the remaining 50.1 percent interest in the Ruffino business.
 
3
 
Outlook
 
The table below sets forth managements current diluted EPS expectations for fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 actual results, both on a reported basis and a comparable basis.
Full-year fiscal 2012 guidance includes the following current assumptions but excludes any impact from any repurchases of the companys common stock subsequent to Nov. 30, 2011:
 
Conference Call
 
A conference call to discuss third quarter 2012 results and outlook will be hosted by President and Chief Executive Officer Rob Sands and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Bob Ryder on Thurs., Jan. 5, 2012 at 10:30 a.m. (eastern).  The conference call can be accessed by dialing +973-935-8505 beginning 10 minutes prior to the start of the call.  A live listen-only webcast of the conference call, together with a copy of this news release (including the attachments) and other financial information that may be discussed during the call will be available on the Internet at Constellations website: www.cbrands.com under Investors, prior to the call.
 
Explanations
 
Reported basis (reported) operating income, net income and diluted EPS are as reported under generally accepted accounting principles.  Operating income, net income and diluted EPS on a comparable basis (comparable), exclude restructuring charges and unusual items.  The companys measure of segment profitability excludes restructuring charges and unusual items, which is consistent with the measure used by management to evaluate results.
 
 
4
 
 
The company discusses additional non-GAAP measures in this news release, including constant currency net sales, organic net sales, comparable basis EBIT and free cash flow.
 
Supplemental Financial Information
 
Tables reconciling non-GAAP measures, together with definitions of these measures and the reasons management uses these measures, are attached to and are part of this news release.
 
About Constellation Brands
 
Constellation Brands is the worlds leading premium wine company that achieves success through an unmatched knowledge of wine consumers, storied brands that suit varied lives and tastes, and talented employees worldwide. With a broad portfolio of widely admired premium products across the wine, beer and spirits categories, Constellations brand portfolio includes Robert Mondavi, Clos du Bois, Blackstone, Arbor Mist, Estancia, Ravenswood, Ruffino, Jackson-Triggs, Inniskillin, Kim Crawford, Corona Extra, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and SVEDKA Vodka.
 
Constellation Brands (NYSE: STZ and STZ.B) is a S&P 500 Index and Fortune 1000 company with more than 100 brands in our portfolio, sales in about 100 countries and operations in approximately 30 facilities. The company believes that industry leadership involves a commitment to our brands, to the trade, to the land, to investors and to different people around the world who turn to our products when celebrating big moments or enjoying quiet ones. We express this commitment through our vision: to elevate life with every glass raised. To learn more about Constellation, visit the company's website at .
www.cbrands.com
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The statements made under the heading Outlook, and all statements other than statements of historical facts set forth in this news release regarding Constellations business strategy, future operations, financial position, estimated revenues, projected costs, prospects, plans and objectives of management, as well as information concerning expected actions of third parties, are forward-looking statements (collectively, the Projections) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the Projections.
 
During the current quarter, Constellation may reiterate the Projections. Prior to the start of the company's quiet period, which will begin at the close of business on Feb. 29, 2012, the public can continue to rely on the Projections as still being Constellation's current expectations on the matters covered, unless Constellation publishes a notice stating otherwise. During Constellations quiet period, the Projections should not be considered to constitute the companys expectations and should be considered historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet period only and not subject to update by the company.
 
The Projections are based on management's current expectations and, unless otherwise noted, do not take into account the impact of any future acquisition, merger or any other business combination, divestiture, restructuring or other strategic business realignments, financing or share repurchase that may be completed after the date of this release. The Projections should not be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur.
 
In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the Projections of the company contained in this news release are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in millions)
 
 
7
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
8
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in millions)
 
 
 
9
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATION OF REPORTED, ORGANIC AND CONSTANT CURRENCY NET SALES
(in millions)
 
As the company sold 80.1% of its Australian and U.K. business on January 31, 2011, organic net sales for the three months and nine months ended November 30, 2010, are defined by the company as reported net sales less net sales of CWAE (as defined below), plus CWNA (as defined below) intercompany net sales to CWAE, as appropriate.  Organic net sales and percentage increase (decrease) in constant currency net sales (which excludes the impact of year-over-year currency exchange rate fluctuations) are provided because management uses this information in monitoring and evaluating the underlying business trends of the continuing operations of the company.  In addition, the company believes this information provides investors better insight on underlying business trends and results in order to evaluate year-over-year financial performance.
 
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL SHIPMENT, DEPLETION AND U.S. FOCUS BRANDS INFORMATION
(in millions, branded product, 9 liter case equivalents)
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
SUMMARIZED SEGMENT AND EQUITY EARNINGS INFORMATION
(in millions)
 
 
 
11
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(1)
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
NM = Not Meaningful
 
 
12
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(1)
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
 
 DEFINITIONS
 
14
 
 
Constellation Brands, Inc. and Subsidiaries
RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (continued)
GUIDANCE - DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE AND FREE CASH FLOW
 
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
Free Cash Flow Guidance
 
 
 
 
15


