Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A"), are forward looking statements that represent managements beliefs and assumptions based on currently available information. Forward looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as "believes," "intends," "may," "will," "looks," "should," "could," "anticipates," "expects" or comparable terminology or by discussions of strategies or trends. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward looking statements are reasonable, it cannot give any assurances that these expectations will prove to be correct. Such statements by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results. Actual future results could differ materially from those described in such forward looking statements, and the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Annual Report, including in those portions referenced above and those described from time to time in the Companys other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") which include, but are not limited to, the cyclicality of the commercial aerospace industry, the performance of aerospace manufacturers and the Company under their long term agreements, the renewal of certain long term agreements, the difficulty in forecasting demand for titanium products, global economic and political conditions, global productive capacity for titanium, changes in product pricing and costs, the impact of long term contracts with vendors on the ability of the Company to reduce or increase supply or achieve lower costs, the possibility of labor disruptions, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, control by certain stockholders and possible conflicts of interest, uncertainties associated with new product development, the supply of raw materials and services, changes in raw material and other operating costs (including energy costs), possible disruption of business or increases in the cost of doing business resulting from terrorist activities or global conflicts, the Companys ability to achieve reductions in its cost structure and other risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks materialize (or the consequences of such a development worsen), or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from those forecasted or expected. PART I ITEM 1: BUSINESS General. Titanium Metals Corporation ("TIMET" or the "Company") was originally formed in 1950 and was incorporated in Delaware in 1955. TIMET is one of the world`s leading producers of titanium sponge and titanium melted and mill products. The Company is the only producer with major titanium production facilities in both the United States and Europe, the worlds principal markets for titanium. The Company estimates that in 2002 it accounted for approximately 20% of worldwide industry shipments of titanium mill products, down from 22% in 2001. This decrease is primarily attributable to the Companys significant reliance on sales to the commercial aerospace market, a market that the Company estimates to have decreased by over 40% from 2001. The Company also estimates it accounted for approximately 11% of worldwide titanium sponge production in 2002. Titanium was first manufactured for commercial use in the 1950s. Titaniums unique combination of corrosion resistance, elevated temperature performance and high strength to weight ratio makes it particularly desirable for use in commercial and military aerospace applications in which these qualities are essential design requirements for certain critical parts such as wing supports and jet engine components. While aerospace applications have historically accounted for a substantial portion of the worldwide demand for titanium and were approximately 41% of aggregate mill product shipments in 2002, the number of non aerospace end use markets for titanium has expanded substantially. Today, numerous industrial uses for titanium exist, including chemical and industrial power plants, desalination plants and pollution control equipment. Demand for titanium is also increasing in emerging markets with such diverse uses as offshore oil and gas production installations, geothermal facilities, military armor, automotive and architectural applications. TIMETs products include titanium sponge, melted products and mill products. The titanium industry is comprised of several manufacturers that, like TIMET, produce a relatively complete range of titanium products and a significant number of producers worldwide that manufacture a limited range of titanium mill products. The Company is currently the only major U.S. titanium sponge producer. The Companys long term strategy is to maximize the value of its core aerospace business and develop new markets, applications and products to help reduce its traditional dependence on the aerospace industry. In the near term, the Company is focused on reducing its cost structure, reducing inventories, improving the quality of its products and processes and taking other actions to generate positive cash flow and return to profitability. Industry. The titanium industry historically has derived a substantial portion of its business from the aerospace industry. Mill product shipments to the aerospace industry in 2002 represented about 41% of total worldwide mill product shipment volume. Aerospace demand for titanium products, which includes both jet engine components (i.e. blades, discs, rings and engine cases) and air frame components (i.e. bulkheads, tail sections, landing gear, wing supports and fasteners) can be broken down into commercial and military sectors. The commercial aerospace sector has a significant influence on titanium companies, particularly mill product producers such as TIMET. In 2002, the commercial aerospace sector accounted for mill product shipments of approximately 14,500 metric tons, which represent approximately 80% of aerospace mill product shipments and 33% of aggregate mill product shipments. Mill product shipments to military aerospace markets in 2002 were approximately 3,600 metric tons, a 3% increase from 2001 military aerospace mill product shipments. Military aerospace shipments approximated 8% of aggregate mill product shipments in 2002, up from 6% in 2001. Military aerospace shipments are largely driven by government defense spending in North America and Europe. As discussed further below, new aircraft programs generally are in development for several years, followed by multi year procurement contracts. The Companys business is more dependent on aerospace demand than the overall titanium industry, as approximately 69% of the Companys annual mill product shipment volume in 2002 was to the aerospace sector (59% commercial aerospace and 10% military aerospace). The cyclical nature of the aerospace industry has been the principal driver of the historical fluctuations in the performance of titanium companies. Over the past 20 years, the titanium industry had cyclical peaks in mill product shipments in 1989, 1997 and 2001 and cyclical lows in 1983, 1991 and 1999. Demand for titanium reached its highest peak in 1997 when industry mill product shipments reached an estimated 60,000 metric tons. Industry mill product shipments subsequently declined approximately 5% to an estimated 57,000 metric tons in 1998. After falling 16% from 1998 levels to 48,000 metric tons in 1999 and 2000, industry shipments climbed to 55,000 metric tons in 2001. However, primarily due to a decrease in demand for titanium from the commercial aerospace sector, total industry mill product shipments fell approximately 20% to an estimated 44,000 metric tons in 2002. The Company expects total industry mill product shipments in 2003 will decrease slightly from 2002 levels. The economic slowdown in the United States and other regions of the world in the latter part of 2001 and the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks combined to negatively impact commercial air travel in the United States and abroad throughout 2002. Although airline passenger traffic showed improvement in the months immediately following the terrorist attacks, current data indicates that traffic remains below pre attack levels. As a result, the U.S. airline industry is expected to record a second consecutive year of losses and two major U.S. airlines were forced to seek bankruptcy protection from their creditors. Airlines have announced a number of actions to reduce both costs and capacity including, but not limited to, the early retirement of airplanes, the deferral of scheduled deliveries of new aircraft and allowing purchase options to expire. The Company expects the current slowdown in the commercial aerospace sector to continue through 2005 before beginning a modest upturn in 2006. 2 The Company believes that industry mill product shipments to the commercial aerospace sector could decline by up to 15% in 2003, primarily due to a combination of reduced aircraft production rates and excess inventory accumulated throughout the commercial aerospace supply chain since September 11, 2001. The commercial aerospace supply chain is fragmented and decentralized, making it difficult to quantify excess inventories, and while the Company estimates there was a significant reduction in excess inventory throughout the supply chain during 2002, it still may take from one to two years for the remainder of such excess inventory to be substantially absorbed, barring the impact of terrorist activities or global conflicts. According to The Airline Monitor, a leading aerospace publication, the worldwide commercial airline industry reported an estimated operating loss of approximately $8 billion in 2002, compared with an operating loss of $11 billion in 2001 and operating income of $11 billion in 2000. The Airline Monitor traditionally issues forecasts for commercial aircraft deliveries each January and July. According to The Airline Monitor, large commercial aircraft deliveries for the 1996 to 2002 period peaked in 1999 with 889 aircraft, including 254 wide body aircraft that use substantially more titanium than their narrow body counterparts. Large commercial aircraft deliveries totaled 673 (including 176 wide bodies) in 2002. The Airline Monitors most recently issued forecast of January 2003 calls for 580 deliveries in 2003, 570 deliveries in 2004 and 560 deliveries in 2005. Relative to 2002, these forecasted delivery rates represent anticipated declines of about 14% in 2003, 15% in 2004 and 17% in 2005. After 2005, The Airline Monitor calls for a continued increase each year in large commercial aircraft deliveries through 2010, with forecasted deliveries of 780 aircraft in 2009 exceeding 2002 levels. Deliveries of titanium generally precede aircraft deliveries by about one year, although this varies considerably by titanium product. This correlates to the Companys cycle, which historically precedes the cycle of the aircraft industry and related deliveries. The Company can give no assurance as to the extent or duration of the current commercial aerospace cycle or the extent to which it will affect demand for the Companys products. The aforementioned bankruptcy filings, although harmful to the commercial aerospace industry in the near term, could ultimately result in a more efficient and profitable commercial airline industry. The renegotiation of union contracts and changes to work rules to bring labor costs in line with the current revenue environment, as well as simplifying fare structures in order to attract more travelers, may promote greater profitability for the commercial airline industry. Further, route restructuring, more point to point service and expanded customer options could also contribute to increased demand for commercial air travel. On the other hand, future terrorist activities or global conflicts could result in a significant decrease in demand for commercial air travel and increase the financial troubles of the airline industry. Military aerospace programs were the first to utilize titaniums unique properties on a large scale, beginning in the 1950s. Titanium shipments to military aerospace markets reached a peak in the 1980s before falling to historical lows in the early 1990s with the end of the cold war. However, the importance of military markets to the titanium industry is expected to rise in coming years as defense spending budgets increase in reaction to terrorist activities or global conflicts. It is estimated that overall titanium consumption will increase in this market segment in 2003 and beyond, but consumption by military applications will offset only a relatively small part of the decrease in the commercial aerospace sector. 3 Several of todays active U.S. military programs, including the C 17, F/A 18, F 16 and F 15 began during the cold war and are forecast to continue at healthy production levels for the foreseeable future. In addition to these established programs, new programs in the United States offer growth opportunities for increased titanium consumption. The F/A 22 Raptor is currently in low rate initial production, and U.S. Air Force officials have expressed a need for a minimum of 339 airplanes, but cost overruns and development delays may result in reduced procurement over the life of the program. In October 2001, Lockheed Martin was awarded what could eventually become the largest military contract ever for the F 35 Joint Strike Fighter ("JSF"). The JSF is expected to enter low rate initial production in late 2006, and although no specific order and delivery patterns have been established, procurement is expected to extend over the next 30 to 40 years and include as many as 3,000 to 4,000 planes. European military programs also have active aerospace programs offering the possibility for increased titanium consumption. The Saab Gripen, Eurofighter Typhoon, Dassault Rafale and Dassault Mirage 2000 all have forecast increased production levels over the next decade. Since titaniums initial applications in the aerospace sector, the number of end use markets for titanium has significantly expanded. Established industrial uses for titanium include chemical plants, industrial power plants, desalination plants and pollution control equipment. Titanium continues to gain acceptance in many emerging market applications, including automotive, military armor, energy, architecture and consumer products. Although titanium is generally higher cost than other competing metals, in many cases customers find the physical properties of titanium to be attractive from the standpoint of weight, performance, design alternatives, life cycle value and other factors. Although emerging market demand presently represents only about 15% of the total industry demand for titanium mill products, the Company believes emerging market demand, in the aggregate, could grow at healthy double digit rates over the next several years. The Company is actively pursuing these markets. Although difficult to predict, the most attractive emerging segment appears to be automotive, due to its potential for sustainable long term growth. For this reason, in 2002 TIMET established a new division, TiMET Automotive, focused on the development of the automotive, truck and motorcycle markets. The division is tasked with developing and marketing proprietary alloys and processes specifically suited for automotive applications and supporting supply chain activities for automotive manufacturers to most cost effectively engineer titanium components. Titanium is now used in several consumer car applications including the Corvette Z06, Toyota Alteeza, Infiniti Q45, Volkswagen Lupo FSI, Honda S2000 and Mercedes S Class and in numerous motorcycles. At the present time, titanium is primarily used for exhaust systems, suspension springs and engine valves in consumer vehicles. In exhaust systems, titanium provides for significant weight savings, while its corrosion resistance provides life of vehicle durability. In suspension spring applications, titaniums low modulus of elasticity allows the springs height to be reduced by 20% to 40% compared to a steel spring, which, when combined with the titaniums low density, permits 30% to 60% weight savings over steel spring suspension systems. The lower spring height provides vehicle designers new styling alternatives and improved performance opportunities. Titanium suspension springs and exhaust applications are also attractive compared to alternative lightweight technologies because the titanium component can often be formed and fabricated on the same tooling used for the steel component it is typically replacing. This is especially attractive for the rapidly growing niche vehicle market sectors that often seek the performance attributes that titanium provides, but where tooling costs prohibit alternative light weighting or other improved performance strategies. 4 Titanium is also making inroads into other automotive applications, including turbo charger wheels, brake parts and connecting rods. Titanium engine components provide mass reduction benefits that directly improve vehicle performance and fuel economy. In certain applications, titanium engine components can provide a cost effective alternative to engine balance shafts to address noise, vibration and harshness while simultaneously improving performance. The decision to select titanium components for consumer car, truck and motorcycle components remains highly cost sensitive; however, the Company believes titaniums acceptance in consumer vehicles will expand as the automotive industry continues to better understand the benefits it offers. Products and operations. The Company is a vertically integrated titanium manufacturer whose products include (i) titanium sponge, the basic form of titanium metal used in processed titanium products, (ii) melted products (ingot and slab), the result of melting sponge and titanium scrap, either alone or with various other alloying elements and (iii) mill products that are forged and rolled from ingot or slab, including long products (billet and bar), flat products (plate, sheet and strip), pipe and pipe fittings. During the past three years, all of TIMETs sales revenue was generated by the Companys integrated titanium operations (its "Titanium melted and mill products" segment), its only business segment. Business and geographic segment financial information is included in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Titanium sponge (so called because of its appearance) is the commercially pure, elemental form of titanium metal. The first step in sponge production involves the chlorination of titanium containing rutile ores (derived from beach sand) with chlorine and coke to produce titanium tetrachloride. Titanium tetrachloride is purified and then reacted with magnesium in a closed system, producing titanium sponge and magnesium chloride as co products. The Companys titanium sponge production facility in Henderson, Nevada incorporates vacuum distillation process ("VDP") technology, which removes the magnesium and magnesium chloride residues by applying heat to the sponge mass while maintaining a vacuum in the chamber. The combination of heat and vacuum boils the residues from the sponge mass, and then the mass is mechanically pushed out of the condensing vessel, sheared and crushed, while the residual magnesium chloride is electrolytically separated and recycled. Titanium ingots and slabs are solid shapes (cylindrical and rectangular, respectively) that weigh up to 8 metric tons in the case of ingots and up to 16 metric tons in the case of slabs. Each ingot or slab is formed by melting titanium sponge, scrap or both, usually with various other alloying elements such as vanadium, aluminum, molybdenum, tin and zirconium. Titanium scrap is a by product of the forging, rolling, milling and machining operations, and significant quantities of scrap are generated in the production process for finished titanium products and components. The melting process for ingots and slabs is closely controlled and monitored utilizing computer control systems to maintain product quality and consistency and to meet customer specifications. In most cases, TIMET uses its ingots and slabs as the starting material for further processing into mill products. However, it also sells ingots and slabs to third parties. 5 Titanium mill products result from the forging, rolling, drawing, welding and or extrusion of titanium ingots or slabs into products of various sizes and grades. These mill products include titanium billet, bar, rod, plate, sheet, strip, pipe and pipe fittings. The Company sends certain products to outside vendors for further processing before being shipped to customers or to the Companys service centers. Many of the Companys customers process the Companys products for their ultimate end use or for sale to third parties. During the production process and following the completion of manufacturing, the Company performs extensive testing on its sponge, melted products and mill products. Testing may involve chemical analysis, mechanical testing, ultrasonic testing or x ray testing. The inspection process is critical to ensuring that the Companys products meet the high quality requirements of its customers, particularly in aerospace components production. The Company certifies its products meet customer specification at the time of shipment for substantially all customer orders. The Company is reliant on several outside processors to perform certain rolling, finishing and other processing steps in the U.S., and certain melting, forging and finishing steps in France. In the U.S., one of the processors that performs these steps in relation to strip production and another as relates to plate finishing are owned by a competitor. One of the processors as relates to extrusion is operated by a customer. These processors are currently the primary source for these services. Other processors used in the U.S. are not competitors. In France, the processor is also a joint venture partner in the Companys 70% owned subsidiary, TIMET Savoie, S.A. ("TIMET Savoie"). Although the Company believes that there are other metal producers with the capability to perform these same processing functions, arranging for alternative processors, or possibly acquiring or installing comparable capabilities, could take several months or longer, and any interruption in these functions could have a material and adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity in the near term. Distribution. The Company sells its products through its own sales force based in the U.S. and Europe and through independent agents and distributors worldwide. The Companys marketing and distribution system also includes eight Company owned service centers (five in the U.S. and three in Europe), which sell the Companys products on a just in time basis. The service centers primarily sell value added and customized mill products including bar and flat rolled sheet and strip. The Company believes its service centers provide a competitive advantage because of their ability to foster customer relationships, customize products to suit specific customer requirements and respond quickly to customer needs. Raw materials. The principal raw materials used in the production of titanium ingot, slab and mill products are titanium sponge, titanium scrap and alloying elements. During 2002, approximately 36% of the Companys melted and mill product raw material requirements were fulfilled with internally produced sponge, 29% with purchased sponge, 29% with titanium scrap and 6% with alloying elements. 6 The primary raw materials used in the production of titanium sponge are titanium containing rutile ore, chlorine, magnesium and petroleum coke. Rutile ore is currently available from a limited number of suppliers around the world, principally located in Australia, South Africa, India and the United States. A majority of the Companys supply of rutile ore is currently purchased from Australian suppliers. The Company believes the availability of rutile ore will be adequate for the foreseeable future and does not anticipate any interruptions of its rutile supplies, although political or economic instability in the countries from which the Company purchases its rutile could materially and adversely affect availability. Although the Company believes that the availability of rutile ore is adequate in the near term, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience interruptions. Chlorine is currently obtained from a single supplier near the Companys sponge plant. That supplier emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization in 2002. While the Company does not presently anticipate any chlorine supply problems, there can be no assurances the chlorine supply will not be interrupted. The Company has taken steps to mitigate this risk, including establishing the feasibility of certain equipment modifications to enable it to utilize material from alternative chlorine suppliers or to purchase and utilize an intermediate product which will allow the Company to eliminate the purchase of chlorine if needed. Magnesium and petroleum coke are generally available from a number of suppliers. While the Company was one of five major worldwide producers of titanium sponge in 2002, it cannot supply all of its needs for all grades of titanium sponge internally and is dependent, therefore, on third parties for a substantial portion of its sponge requirements. Titanium mill and melted products require varying grades of sponge and or scrap depending on the customers specifications and expected end use. In 2001, Allegheny Technologies, Inc. idled its titanium sponge production facility, leaving TIMET as the only active major U.S. producer of titanium sponge and reducing the number of major active worldwide producers to five. Presently, TIMET and certain suppliers in Japan are the only producers of premium quality sponge required for more demanding aerospace applications. However, two additional sponge suppliers are presently undergoing qualification tests of their products for premium quality applications and were qualified during 2002 by some engine manufacturers for certain premium quality applications. This qualification process is likely to continue for several years. Historically, the Company has purchased sponge predominantly from producers in Japan and Kazakhstan. Since 2000, the Company has also purchased sponge from the U.S. Defense Logistics Agency ("DLA") stockpile. In September 2002, the Company entered into a new sponge supply agreement, effective from January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2007. This new agreement replaced and superceded a prior 1997 agreement. The new agreement requires minimum annual purchases by the Company of approximately $10 million in 2002 through 2007. The Company has no other long term sponge supply agreements. In 2003, the Company expects to continue to purchase sponge from a variety of sources. Various alloying elements used in the production of titanium melted products are also available from a number of suppliers. 7 Customer agreements. The Company has long term agreements ("LTAs") with certain major aerospace customers, including, but not limited to, The Boeing Company ("Boeing"), Rolls Royce plc ("Rolls Royce"), United Technologies Corporation (Pratt & Whitney and related companies) and Wyman Gordon Company ("Wyman Gordon," a unit of Precision Castparts Corporation ("PCC")). These agreements initially became effective in 1998 and 1999 and expire in 2007 through 2008, subject to certain conditions. The LTAs generally provide for (i) minimum market shares of the customers titanium requirements or firm annual volume commitments and (ii) fixed or formula determined prices generally for at least the first five years. Generally, the LTAs require the Companys service and product performance to meet specified criteria and contain a number of other terms and conditions customary in transactions of these types. In certain events of nonperformance by the Company, the LTAs may be terminated early. Additionally, under a group of related LTAs (which group represented approximately 12% of the Companys 2002 sales revenue) which currently have fixed prices that convert to formula derived prices in 2004, the customer may terminate the agreement as of the end of 2003 if the effect of the initiation of formula derived pricing would cause such customer "material harm." If any of such agreements within the group were to be terminated by the customer on this basis, it is possible that some portion of the business represented by that group of related LTAs would continue on a non LTA basis. However, the termination of one or more of the LTAs, including any of those within the group of related LTAs, could result in a material and adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. The LTAs were designed to limit selling price volatility to the customer, while providing TIMET with a committed base of volume throughout the aerospace business cycles. They also, to varying degrees, effectively obligate TIMET to bear part of the risks of increases in raw material and other costs, but allow TIMET to benefit in part from decreases in such costs. In April 2001, the Company reached a settlement of the litigation between TIMET and Boeing related to the parties LTA entered into in 1997. Pursuant to the settlement, the Company received a cash payment of $82 million from Boeing. Under the terms of the LTA, as amended, in years 2002 through 2007, Boeing advances TIMET $28.5 million annually less $3.80 per pound of titanium product purchased by Boeing subcontractors during the preceding year. Effectively, the Company collects $3.80 less from Boeing than the LTA selling price for each pound of titanium product sold directly to Boeing and reduces the related customer advance recorded by the Company. For titanium products sold to Boeing subcontractors, the Company collects the full LTA selling price, but gives Boeing credit by reducing the next years annual advance by $3.80 per pound of titanium product sold to Boeing subcontractors. The Boeing customer advance is also reduced as take or pay benefits are earned, as described in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Under a separate agreement, TIMET must establish and hold buffer stock for Boeing at TIMETs facilities, for which Boeing will pay TIMET as such product is produced. See Item 7 (MD&A) for additional information regarding the Boeing LTA. The Company also has an LTA with VALTIMET SAS ("VALTIMET"), a manufacturer of welded stainless steel and titanium tubing that is principally sold into the industrial markets. VALTIMET is a 44% owned affiliate of TIMET. The LTA was entered into in 1997 and expires in 2007. Under the LTA, VALTIMET has agreed to purchase a certain percentage of its titanium requirements from TIMET at formula determined selling prices, subject to certain conditions. Certain provisions of this contract have been amended in the past and may be amended in the future to meet changing business conditions. 8 Markets and customer base. Approximately 53% of the Companys 2002 sales revenue was generated by sales to customers within North America, as compared to about 51% and 55% in 2001 and 2000, respectively. Approximately 40% of the Companys 2002 sales revenue was generated by sales to European customers, as compared to about 39% and 38% in 2001 and 2000, respectively. The balance of the Companys sales was to other regions throughout the world. Further information regarding the Companys external sales, net income, long lived assets and total assets by segment can be found in the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Operations and Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Over 67% of the Companys sales revenue was generated by sales to the aerospace industry in 2002, as compared to 70% in each of 2001 and 2000. Sales under the Companys LTAs accounted for over 37% of its sales revenue in 2002. Sales to PCC and its related entities approximated 9% of the Companys sales revenue in 2002. Sales to Rolls Royce and other Rolls Royce suppliers under the Rolls Royce LTAs (including sales to certain of the PCC related entities) represented approximately 12% of the Companys sales revenue in 2002. The Company expects that while a majority of its 2003 sales revenue will be to the aerospace industry, other markets will continue to represent a significant portion of sales. The primary market for titanium products in the commercial aerospace industry consists of two major manufacturers of large (over 100 seats) commercial airframes Boeing Commercial Airplanes Group of the United States and Airbus Integrated Company (80% owned by European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company and 20% owned by BAE Systems) of Europe ("Airbus"). In addition to the airframe manufacturers, the following four manufacturers of large civil aircraft engines are also significant titanium users Rolls Royce, Pratt & Whitney (a unit of United Technologies Corporation), General Electric Aircraft Engines and Societe Nationale dEtude et de Construction de Moteurs dAviation ("Snecma"). The Companys sales are made both directly to these major manufacturers and to companies (including forgers such as Wyman Gordon) that use the Companys titanium to produce parts and other materials for such manufacturers. If any of the major aerospace manufacturers were to significantly reduce aircraft and or jet engine build rates from those currently expected, there could be a material adverse effect, both directly and indirectly, on the Company. As of December 31, 2002, the estimated firm order backlog for Boeing and Airbus, as reported by The Airline Monitor, was 2,649 planes, versus 2,919 planes at the end of 2001 and 3,224 planes at the end of 2000. The backlogs for Boeing and Airbus reflect orders for aircraft to be delivered over several years. For example, the first deliveries of the Airbus A380 are anticipated to begin in 2006. Additionally, changes in the economic environment and the financial condition of airlines can result in rescheduling or cancellation of contractual orders. Accordingly, aircraft manufacturer backlogs are not necessarily a reliable indicator of near term business activity, but may be indicative of potential business levels over a longer term horizon. 9 The newer wide body planes, such as the Boeing 777 and the Airbus A330, A340 and A380, tend to use a higher percentage of titanium in their frames, engines and parts (as measured by total flyweight) than narrow body planes ("flyweight" is the empty weight of a finished aircraft with engines but without fuel or passengers). Titanium represents approximately 9% of the total flyweight of a Boeing 777 for example, compared to between 2% to 3% on the older 737, 747 and 767 models. The estimated firm order backlog for wide body planes at year end 2002 was 709 (27% of total backlog) compared to 801 (27% of total backlog) at the end of 2001. At year end 2002, a total of 95 firm orders had been placed for the Airbus A380 superjumbo jet, which program was officially launched in December 2000 with anticipated first deliveries in 2006. The Company estimates that approximately 77 metric tons of titanium will be purchased for each A380 manufactured, the most of any commercial aircraft. Outside of aerospace markets, the Company manufactures a wide range of industrial products, including sheet, plate, tube, bar, billet and skelp, for customers in the chemical process, oil and gas, consumer, sporting goods, automotive, power generation and armor/armament industries. Approximately 18% of the Companys sales revenue in 2002, 2001 and 2000 was generated by sales into the industrial and emerging markets, including sales to VALTIMET for the production of condenser tubing. For the oil and gas industries, the Company provides seamless pipe for downhole casing, risers, tapered stress joints and other offshore oil production equipment, including fabrication of sub sea manifolds. In armor and armament, the Company sells plate products for fabrication into door hatches on fighting vehicles, as well as tank/turret protection. In addition to mill and melted products, which are sold into the aerospace, industrial and emerging markets, the Company sells certain other products such as sponge, titanium tetrachloride and fabricated titanium assemblies. Sales of these other products represented 15% of the Companys sales revenue in 2002 and 12% in each of 2001 and 2000. The Companys backlog of unfilled orders was approximately $165 million at December 31, 2002, compared to $225 million at December 31, 2001 and $245 million at December 31, 2000. Substantially all the 2002 year end backlog is scheduled for shipment during 2003. However, the Companys order backlog may not be a reliable indicator of future business activity. Since September 11, 2001, the Company has received a number of deferrals and cancellations of previously scheduled orders and believes such requests will continue into 2003. Through various strategic relationships, the Company seeks to gain access to unique process technologies for the manufacture of its products and to expand existing markets and create and develop new markets for titanium. The Company has explored and will continue to explore strategic arrangements in the areas of product development, production and distribution. The Company also will continue to work with existing and potential customers to identify and develop new or improved applications for titanium that take advantage of its unique qualities. Competition. The titanium metals industry is highly competitive on a worldwide basis. Producers of melted and mill products are located primarily in the United States, Japan, France, Germany, Italy, Russia, China and the United Kingdom. There are currently five major producers of titanium sponge in the world. TIMET is currently the only active major U.S. sponge producer. 10 The Companys principal competitors in the aerospace market are Allegheny Technologies Inc. and RTI International Metals, Inc., both based in the United States, and Verkhnaya Salda Metallurgical Production Organization ("VSMPO"), based in Russia. These companies, along with the Japanese producers and other companies, are also principal competitors in industrial markets. The Company competes primarily on the basis of price, quality of products, technical support and the availability of products to meet customers delivery schedules. In the U.S. market, the increasing presence of non U.S. participants has become a significant competitive factor. Until 1993, imports of foreign titanium products into the U.S. had not been significant. This was primarily attributable to relative currency exchange rates and, with respect to Japan, Russia, Kazakhstan and Ukraine, import duties (including antidumping duties). However, since 1993, imports of titanium sponge, ingot and mill products, principally from Russia and Kazakhstan, have increased and have had a significant competitive impact on the U.S. titanium industry. To the extent the Company has been able to take advantage of this situation by purchasing sponge, ingot or intermediate and finished mill products from such countries for use in its own operations, the negative effect of these imports on the Company has been somewhat mitigated. Generally, imports of titanium products into the U.S. are subject to a 15% "normal trade relations" tariff. For tariff purposes, titanium products are broadly classified as either wrought (bar, sheet, strip, plate and tubing) or unwrought (sponge, ingot, slab and billet). Prior antidumping orders on imports of titanium sponge from Japan and countries of the former Soviet Union were revoked in 1998. The U.S. maintains a trade program referred to as the "generalized system of preferences" or "GSP program" designed to promote the economies of a number of lesser developed countries (referred to as "beneficiary developing countries") by eliminating duties on a specific list of products imported from any of these beneficiary developing countries. Of the key titanium producing countries outside the U.S., Russia and Kazakhstan are currently regarded as beneficiary developing countries under the GSP program. For most periods since 1993, imports of titanium wrought products from any beneficiary developing country (notably Russia, as a producer of wrought products) were exempted from U.S. import duties under the GSP program. Kazakhstan has filed a petition with the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative seeking GSP status on imports of titanium sponge, which, if granted, would eliminate the 15% tariff currently imposed on titanium sponge imported into the U.S. from any beneficiary developing country (notably Russia and Kazakhstan, as producers of titanium sponge). TIMET has successfully resisted, and will continue to resist, efforts to date to expand the scope of the GSP program to eliminate duties on sponge and other unwrought titanium products, although no assurances can be made that the Company will continue to be successful in these activities. No formal decision on the treatment of the GSP petition on titanium sponge has been announced by the U.S. Trade Representative, although the Company expects that action on the petition will be taken in 2003. Antidumping orders permitting duties on imports of titanium sponge from Japan and the former Soviet Union were revoked in 1998. 11 Further reductions in, or the complete elimination of, any or all of these tariffs, including expansion of the GSP program to unwrought titanium products, could lead to increased imports of foreign sponge, ingot and mill products into the U.S. and an increase in the amount of such products on the market generally, which could adversely affect pricing for titanium sponge and mill products and thus the Companys business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. However, since 1993 the Company has been a large importer of foreign titanium sponge, particularly from Kazakhstan, into the U.S. To the extent the Company remains a substantial purchaser of foreign sponge, any adverse effects on product pricing as a result of any reduction in, or elimination of, any of these tariffs would be partially ameliorated by the decreased cost to the Company for foreign sponge to the extent it currently bears the cost of the import duties. Producers of other metal products, such as steel and aluminum, maintain forging, rolling and finishing facilities that could be used or modified without substantial expenditures to process titanium products. The Company believes, however, that entry as a producer of titanium sponge would require a significant capital investment and substantial technical expertise. Titanium mill products also compete with stainless steels, nickel alloys, steel, plastics, aluminum and composites in many applications. Research and development. The Companys research and development activities are directed toward expanding the use of titanium and titanium alloys in all market sectors. Key research activities include the development of new alloys, development of technology required to enhance the performance of TIMETs products in the traditional industrial and aerospace markets and applications development in the automotive division and other emerging markets. The Company conducts the majority of its research and development activities at its Henderson Technical Laboratory in Henderson, Nevada, with additional activities at its Witton, England facility. The Company incurred research and development costs of $3.3 million in 2002 and $2.6 million in both 2001 and 2000. Patents and trademarks. The Company holds U.S. and non U.S. patents applicable to certain of its titanium alloys and manufacturing technology. The Company continually seeks patent protection with respect to its technical base and has occasionally entered into cross licensing arrangements with third parties. The Company believes the trademarks TIMET(R) and TIMETAL(R), which are protected by registration in the U.S. and other countries, are important to its business. Further, TIMET feels its proprietary TIMETAL Exhaust Grade, patented TIMETAL 62S connecting rod alloy, patented TIMETAL LCB spring alloy and patented TIMETAL Ti 1100 engine valve alloy give it competitive advantages in the automotive market. However, most of the titanium alloys and manufacturing technology used by the Company do not benefit from patent or other intellectual property protection. 12 Employees. The cyclical nature of the aerospace industry and its impact on the Companys business is the principal reason the Company periodically implements cost reduction restructurings, reorganizations and other changes that impact the Companys employment levels. The following table shows the fluctuation in the number of employees over the past 3 years. The 19% decrease in employees from 2001 to 2002 and the 9% increase in employees from 2000 to 2001 were principally in response to changes in market demand for the Companys products. The decrease in 2002 met the Companys targeted reductions announced during the third quarter of 2002. During 2003, the Company expects to continue efforts to reduce employment in response to anticipated reduced demand for titanium products. Employees at December 31, 2002 2001 2000 U.S. 1,184 1,462 1,333 Europe 772 948 887 Total 1,956 2,410 2,220 The Companys production, maintenance, clerical and technical workers in Toronto, Ohio, and its production and maintenance workers in Henderson, Nevada are represented by the United Steelworkers of America ("USWA") under contracts expiring in June 2005 and October 2004, respectively. Employees at the Companys other U.S. facilities are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 60% of the salaried and hourly employees at the Companys European facilities are represented by various European labor unions, generally under annual agreements. Such agreements are currently being negotiated for 2003. While the Company currently considers its employee relations to be satisfactory, it is possible that there could be future work stoppages or other labor disruptions that could materially and adversely affect the Companys business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Regulatory and environmental matters. The Companys operations are governed by various Federal, state, local and foreign environmental and worker safety laws and regulations. In the U.S., such laws include the Occupational, Safety and Health Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. The Company uses and manufactures substantial quantities of substances that are considered hazardous, extremely hazardous or toxic under environmental and worker safety and health laws and regulations. The Company has used and manufactured such substances throughout the history of its operations. As a result, risk of environmental damage is inherent in the Companys operations. The Companys operations pose a continuing risk of accidental releases of, and worker exposure to, hazardous or toxic substances. There is also a risk that government environmental requirements, or enforcement thereof, may become more stringent in the future. There can be no assurances that some, or all, of the risks discussed under this heading will not result in liabilities that would be material to the Companys business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. The Companys operations in Europe are similarly subject to foreign laws and regulations respecting environmental and worker safety matters, which laws have not had, and are not presently expected to have, a material adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. 13 The Company believes that its operations are in compliance in all material respects with applicable requirements of environmental and worker health and safety laws. The Companys policy is to continually strive to improve environmental, health and safety performance. From time to time, the Company may be subject to health, safety or environmental regulatory enforcement under various statutes, resolution of which typically involves the establishment of compliance programs. Occasionally, resolution of these matters may result in the payment of penalties. The Company incurred capital expenditures for health, safety and environmental compliance matters of approximately $1.4 million in 2002, $2.4 million in 2001 and $2.6 million in 2000. The Companys capital budget provides for approximately $1.9 million of such expenditures in 2003. However, the imposition of more strict standards or requirements under environmental, health or safety laws and regulations could result in expenditures in excess of amounts currently estimated to be required for such matters. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Acquisitions and capital transactions during the past five years. In 1998, TIMET (i) acquired Loterios S.p.A. ("Loterios") to increase its market share in industrial markets and provide increased geographic sales coverage in Europe, (ii) purchased for cash $80 million of non voting convertible preferred securities of Special Metals Corporation ("SMC"), a U.S. manufacturer of wrought nickel based superalloys and special alloy long products and (iii) entered into a castings joint venture with Wyman Gordon. In January 2000, the Company sold its interest in the castings joint venture for $7 million and realized a gain of $1.2 million on the sale. In December 2001 and March 2002, the Company determined there had been an other than temporary decline in the fair value of its investment in SMC and reduced the carrying amount of these securities and related dividends and interest to an estimated fair value of $27.5 million and zero, respectively. See Notes 1, 4 and 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Related parties. At December 31, 2002, Tremont Corporation and other entities related to Harold C. Simmons held approximately 48.4% of TIMETs outstanding common stock. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Available information. The Company maintains an Internet website at www.timet.com. The Companys Annual Reports for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, the Companys Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q for 2003, 2002 and 2001, any Current Reports on Form 8 K for 2003 and 2002, and any amendments thereto, are or will be available free of charge at such website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed or furnished, as applicable, with the SEC. The general public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549, and may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. The Company is an electronic filer, and the SEC maintains an Internet website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 14 ITEM 2: PROPERTIES Set forth below is a listing of the Companys major production facilities. In addition to its U.S. sponge capacity discussed below, the Companys worldwide melting capacity presently aggregates approximately 45,000 metric tons (estimated 29% of world capacity), and its mill product capacity aggregates approximately 20,000 metric tons (estimated 16% of world capacity). Approximately 35% of TIMETs worldwide melting capacity is represented by electron beam cold hearth melting ("EB") furnaces, 63% by vacuum arc remelting ("VAR") furnaces and 2% by a vacuum induction melting ("VIM") furnace. Annual Practical Capacities (3) Melted Mill Manufacturing Location Products Manufactured Products Products (metric tons) Henderson, Nevada (1) Sponge, Ingot 12,250 Morgantown, Pennsylvania (1) Slab, Ingot, Raw materials processing 20,000 Toronto, Ohio (1) Billet, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Strip 9,900 Vallejo, California (2) Ingot (including non titanium superalloys) 1,600 Ugine, France (2) Ingot, Billet, Bar, Extrusions 2,450 2,000 Waunarlwydd (Swansea), Wales(1) Bar, Plate, Sheet 3,900 Witton, England (2) Ingot, Billet, Bar 8,700 8,000 (1) Owned facilities. (2) Leased facilities. (3) Practical capacities are variable based on production mix and are not additive. The Company has operated its major production facilities at varying levels of practical capacity during the past three years. In 2002, the plants operated at approximately 55% of practical capacity, as compared to 75% in 2001 and 60% in 2000. In 2003, the Companys plants are expected to operate at approximately 50% of practical capacity. However, practical capacity and utilization measures can vary significantly based upon the mix of products produced. United States production. The Companys VDP sponge facility is expected to operate at approximately 67% of its annual practical capacity of 8,600 metric tons during 2003, down from approximately 87% in 2002. VDP sponge is used principally as a raw material for the Companys melting facilities in the U.S. and Europe. Approximately 1,400 metric tons of VDP production from the Companys Henderson, Nevada facility were used in Europe during 2002, which represented approximately 32% of the sponge consumed in the Companys European operations. The Company expects the consumption of VDP sponge in its European operations to be approximately 40% of their sponge requirements in 2003. The raw materials processing facilities in Morgantown, Pennsylvania primarily process scrap used as melting feedstock, either in combination with sponge or separately. Sponge for melting requirements in the U.S. that is not supplied by the Companys Henderson, Nevada plant is purchased principally from suppliers in Japan and Kazakhstan and from the DLA stockpile. 15 The Companys U.S. melting facilities in Henderson, Nevada and Morgantown, Pennsylvania produce ingots and slabs, which are either sold to third parties or used as feedstock for the Companys mill products operations. These melting facilities are expected to operate at approximately 50% of aggregate annual practical capacity in 2003. Titanium mill products are produced by TIMET in the U.S. at its forging and rolling facility in Toronto, Ohio, which receives ingots or slabs principally from the Companys U.S. melting facilities. The Companys U.S. forging and rolling facility is expected to operate at approximately 50% of annual practical capacity in 2003. Capacity utilization across the Companys individual mill product lines varies. European production. The Company conducts its operations in Europe primarily through its wholly owned subsidiaries TIMET UK, Ltd. ("TIMET UK") and Loterios and its 70% owned subsidiary TIMET Savoie. TIMET UKs Witton, England facilities are leased pursuant to long term capital leases expiring in 2026. TIMET Savoie has the right to utilize portions of the Ugine, France plant of Compagnie Europeene du Zirconium CEZUS, S.A. ("CEZUS"), the 30% minority partner in TIMET Savoie, pursuant to an agreement expiring in 2006. TIMET UKs melting facility in Witton, England produces VAR ingots used primarily as feedstock for its forging operations, also in Witton. The forging operations process the ingots principally into billet product for sale to third parties or into an intermediate product for further processing into bar or plate at its facility in Waunarlwydd, Wales. TIMET UKs melting and mill products production in 2003 is expected to operate at approximately 55% and 45% of annual practical capacity, respectively. The capacity of TIMET Savoie in Ugine, France is to a certain extent dependent upon the level of activity in CEZUS zirconium business, which may from time to time provide TIMET Savoie with capacity in excess of that contractually required to be provided by CEZUS. During 2003, TIMET Savoie expects to operate at approximately 55% of the maximum annual capacity required to be provided by CEZUS. Sponge for melting requirements at both TIMET UK and TIMET Savoie that is not supplied by the Companys Henderson, Nevada plant is purchased principally from suppliers in Japan and Kazakhstan. ITEM 3: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS From time to time, the Company is involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of its operations in the normal course of business. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 16 ITEM 4: SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders of the Company during the quarter ended December 31, 2002. The Company held a Special Meeting of Stockholders on February 4, 2003 for the purpose of voting on an amendment to the Companys Certificate of Incorporation to (i) effect a reverse stock split of the Companys common stock at a ratio of one share of post split common stock for each currently outstanding eight, nine or ten shares of pre split common stock, with the final exchange ratio to be selected by the Board of Directors and (ii) reduce the number of authorized shares of common stock and preferred stock of the company from 99,000,000 shares and 1,000,000 shares, respectively, to 9,900,000 and 100,000 shares, respectively. The amendment passed based on the following results: Votes for: 26,303,935 Votes against: 934,703 Votes abstained: 33,631 Subsequently on February 4, 2003, the Board of Directors unanimously approved the reverse stock split on the basis of one share of post split common stock for each outstanding ten shares of pre split common stock. The reverse stock split became effective after the close of trading on February 14, 2003, and the Companys common stock began trading on a post split basis on February 18, 2003. 17 PART II ITEM 5: MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS TIMETs common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: "TIE"). On February 26, 2003, the closing price of TIMET common stock was $19.66 per share. The high and low sales prices for the Companys common stock are set forth below. All prices have been adjusted to reflect the one for ten reverse stock split which became effective after the close of trading on February 14, 2003. High Low Year ended December 31, 2002: First quarter $ 54.00 $ 32.50 Second quarter 53.00 35.00 Third quarter 40.20 16.50 Fourth quarter 22.90 9.10 Year ended December 31, 2001: First quarter $ 106.20 $ 66.90 Second quarter 144.00 67.50 Third quarter 119.00 23.50 Fourth quarter 47.00 27.50 As of February 24, 2003, there were 306 common shareholders of record, which the Company estimates represent approximately 6,700 actual shareholders. In the third quarter of 1999, the Company suspended payment of quarterly common stock dividends. The Companys U.S. credit agreement, entered into in early 2000 and as amended in 2002, prohibits the payment of dividends on the Companys common stock and the repurchase of common shares, except under specified conditions. In October 2002, the Company exercised its right to defer future dividend payments on its Convertible Preferred Securities for a period of up to 20 consecutive quarters. This deferral was effective beginning with the Companys December 1, 2002 scheduled dividend payment. The Company will consider resuming payment of dividends on the Convertible Preferred Securities once the outlook for the Companys business improves substantially. Since the Company exercised its right to defer dividend payments on the Convertible Preferred Securities, it is unable under the terms of these securities to, among other things, pay dividends on or reacquire its capital stock during the deferral period. However, the Company is permitted to reacquire the Convertible Preferred Securities during the deferral period, subject to certain U.S. credit facility limitations. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 18 ITEM 6: SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The selected financial data set forth below should be read in conjunction with the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7 MD&A. Year ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 ($ in millions, except per share and selling price data) STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA: Net sales $ 366.5 $ 486.9 $ 426.8 $ 480.0 $ 707.7 Gross margin (3.1) 39.9 3.9 25.5 165.4 Operating income (loss) (1) (20.8) 64.5 (41.7) (31.4) 82.7 Interest expense 3.4 4.1 7.7 7.1 2.9 Net income (loss) (1) $ (111.5) $ (41.8) $ (38.9) $ (31.4) $ 45.8 Earnings (loss) per share (1)(7): Basic and diluted (2) $ (35.29) $ (13.26) $ (12.40) $ (10.01) $ 14.55 Cash dividends per share (7) $ $ $ $ 1.20 $ 1.20 BALANCE SHEET DATA: Cash and cash equivalents $ 6.2 $ 24.5 $ 9.8 $ 20.7 $ 15.5 Total assets (1) 563.8 699.4 759.1 883.1 953.2 Indebtedness (3) 19.4 12.4 44.9 117.4 105.6 Net cash (debt) (4) (13.2) 12.1 (35.1) (96.7) (90.1) Capital lease obligations 10.2 8.9 8.8 10.1 10.3 Minority interest Convertible Preferred Securities 201.2 201.2 201.2 201.2 201.2 Stockholders equity $ 159.4 $ 298.1 $ 357.5 $ 408.1 $ 448.4 OTHER OPERATING DATA: Cash flows provided (used): Operating activities $ (13.6) $ 62.6 $ 65.4 $ 19.5 $ 76.1 Investing activities (7.5) (16.1) (4.2) (21.7) (223.2) Financing activities 3.6 (31.4) (72.8) 8.6 92.2 Net provided (used) $ (17.5) $ 15.1 $ (11.6) $ 6.4 $ (54.9) Mill product shipments (5) 8.9 12.2 11.4 11.4 14.8 Average mill product prices (5) $ 31.40 $ 29.80 $ 28.70 $ 33.00 $ 35.25 Melted product shipments (5) 2.4 4.4 3.5 2.5 3.6 Average melted product prices (5) $ 14.50 $ 14.50 $ 13.65 $ 14.20 $ 18.50 Active employees at December 31 1,956 2,410 2,220 2,350 2,740 Order backlog at December 31(6) $ 165.0 $ 225.0 $ 245.0 $ 195.0 $ 350.0 Capital expenditures $ 7.8 $ 16.1 $ 11.2 $ 24.8 $ 115.2 (1) See the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and MD&A for items that materially affect the 2002, 2001 and 2000 periods. The Company recorded $4.5 million and $24.0 million pre tax restructuring charges in 1999 and 1998, respectively. (2) Antidilutive in all periods. (3) Indebtedness represents notes payable and current and noncurrent debt, and excludes capital lease obligations and Minority interest Convertible Preferred Securities (and accrued dividends thereon). (4) Net cash (debt) represents cash and cash equivalents less indebtedness. (5) Shipments in thousands of metric tons; average selling prices stated per kilogram and mix adjusted. (6) Order backlog is defined as unfilled purchase orders, which are generally subject to deferral or cancellation by the customer under certain conditions. (7) Amounts have been adjusted to reflect the Companys one for ten reverse stock split which became effective after the close of trading on February 14, 2003. 19 ITEM 7: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview. The titanium industry derives a substantial portion of its demand from the highly cyclical commercial aerospace industry. The Company estimates that aggregate industry shipment volume for titanium mill products in 2002 was derived from the following markets: 41% from aerospace; 44% from industrial; and 15% from emerging markets. The commercial aerospace sector is the principal driver of titanium consumed in the aerospace markets, accounting for shipments of approximately 14,500 metric tons in 2002, which represent about 80% of mill product aerospace shipments and about 33% of aggregate mill product industry shipments. Mill product shipments to military aerospace markets in 2002 were approximately 3,600 metric tons, which represent about 8% of aggregate mill product shipments. The Companys business is more dependent on commercial aerospace demand than the overall titanium industry, as approximately 59% of its mill product sales volume in 2002 was represented by sales to this sector. The economic slowdown in the United States and other regions of the world in the latter part of 2001 and the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks combined to negatively impact commercial air travel in the United States and abroad throughout 2002. Although airline passenger traffic showed improvement in the months immediately following the terrorist attacks, current data indicates that traffic remains below pre attack levels. As a result, the U.S. airline industry is expected to record a second consecutive year of losses and two major U.S. airlines were forced to seek bankruptcy protection from their creditors. Airlines have announced a number of actions to reduce both costs and capacity including, but not limited to, the early retirement of airplanes, the deferral of scheduled deliveries of new aircraft and allowing purchase options to expire. The Companys order backlog at the end of December 2002 was approximately $165 million, unchanged from the end of September 2002. The Companys order backlog was $225 million at the end of December 2001. Substantially all the 2002 year end backlog is scheduled for shipment during 2003. However, the Companys order backlog may not be a reliable indicator of future business activity. Since September 11, 2001, the Company has received a number of deferrals and cancellations of previously scheduled orders and believes such requests will continue into 2003. The Company expects the current slowdown in the commercial aerospace sector to continue through 2005 before beginning a modest upturn in 2006. See "Outlook" for further discussion of the Companys business expectations for 2003. The table on the following page summarizes certain information regarding the Companys results of operations for the past three years. Average selling prices, as reported by the Company, are a reflection not just of actual selling prices received by the Company, but other related factors such as currency exchange rates and customer and product mix in a given period. Consequently, changes in average selling prices from period to period will be impacted by changes occurring not just in actual prices, but by these other factors as well. In the following discussion, the Company has attempted to adjust for the effects of changes in currency and mix when referring to the percentage change in selling prices from period to period. 20 Year ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 ($ in thousands) Net sales $ 366,501 $ 486,935 $ 426,798 Gross margin (3,123) 39,893 3,881 Operating (loss) income (20,849) 64,480 (41,650) Gross margin percent of net sales 1% 8% 1% Percent change in: Mill product sales volume 27 +7 1 Mill product average selling prices (1) +3 +2 7 Melted product sales volume 46 +27 +39 Melted product average selling prices (1) 1 +8 10 (1) Change expressed in billing currencies and adjusted for product mix. 2002 operations. The Companys sales of mill products in 2002 decreased 23% from $363.3 million in 2001 to $278.2 million in 2002. This decrease was principally due to a 27% decrease in mill product sales volume and changes in customer and product mix. The Companys estimated sales volume to the commercial aerospace sector declined approximately 37% during 2002 compared to 2001. Mill product average selling prices (expressed in U.S. dollars using actual foreign currency exchange rates prevailing during the respective periods) during 2002 increased 4% compared to 2001 selling prices. In billing currencies (which exclude the effects of foreign currency translation), mill product average selling prices increased 3% over 2001 levels. Melted product sales decreased 46% from $64.1 million in 2001 to $34.8 million in 2002 primarily due to a 46% decrease in melted product sales volume and changes in customer and product mix. Melted product average selling prices decreased 1% from 2001 melted product prices. Gross margin (net sales less cost of sales) was negative 1% of sales in 2002, compared to 8% in the prior year. Gross margin in 2002 was most adversely impacted by the decline in production volume and the related impact on manufacturing overhead costs. As the Company reduces production volume in response to reduced requirements, certain manufacturing overhead costs decrease at a slower rate and to a lesser extent than production volume changes, generally resulting in higher costs relative to production levels. Average plant operating rates declined from approximately 75% of capacity in 2001 to approximately 55% in 2002. In addition, the Company recorded certain provisions for excess and slow moving inventories during 2002 that, due to business conditions existing during 2002, including a number of customer order cancellations, were approximately $5.3 million greater than in 2001. The Company also incurred severance costs of approximately $1.7 million related to global manufacturing workforce reductions undertaken throughout 2002. Gross margin during 2001 was adversely impacted by $3.3 million of estimated costs related to the tungsten matter described below and $10.8 million of equipment impairment charges described in "2001 operations." Gross margin during 2001 was also adversely impacted by goodwill amortization of $4.6 million, as effective January 1, 2002 the Company no longer amortized its goodwill on a periodic basis. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 21 In March 2001, the Company was notified by one of its customers that a product the customer manufactured from standard grade titanium produced by the Company contained what has been confirmed to be a tungsten inclusion. The Company believes that the source of this tungsten was contaminated silicon, which is used as an alloying addition to titanium at the melting stage, purchased from an outside vendor in 1998. At the present time, the Company is aware of six standard grade ingots that have been demonstrated to contain tungsten inclusions. Based upon the Companys assessment of possible losses, TIMET recorded an aggregate charge to cost of sales for this matter of $3.3 million during 2001. During 2001, the Company charged $0.3 million against this accrual to write down its remaining on hand inventory and made $0.3 million in settlement payments, resulting in a $2.7 million accrual as of December 31, 2001 for potential future claims. During 2002, the Company made settlement payments aggregating $0.3 million and has also revised its estimate of the most likely amount of loss to be incurred, resulting in a credit of $0.2 million to cost of sales during 2002. As of December 31, 2002, $2.2 million is accrued for pending and potential future claims. This amount represents the Companys best estimate of the most likely amount of loss yet to be incurred. This amount does not represent the maximum possible loss, which is not possible for the Company to estimate at this time, and may be periodically revised in the future as more facts become known. As of December 31, 2002 the Company has received claims aggregating approximately $5 million and has made settlement payments aggregating $0.6 million. Pending claims are being investigated and negotiated. The Company believes that certain claims are without merit or can be settled for less than the amount of the original claim. There is no assurance that all potential claims have yet been submitted to the Company. The Company has filed suit seeking full recovery from its silicon supplier for any liability the Company might incur, although no assurances can be given that the Company will ultimately be able to recover all or any portion of such amounts. The Company has not recorded any recoveries related to this matter as of December 31, 2002. Selling, general, administrative and development expenses decreased 17% in 2002 compared to 2001, principally due to the inclusion of $6.2 million of incentive compensation related to the Boeing settlement in 2001 (discussed in "2001 operations") and lower personnel related costs in 2002, partially offset by higher selling and marketing costs. Equity in earnings (losses) of joint ventures in 2002 decreased 21% from 2001 principally due to a decrease in earnings of VALTIMET, the Companys 44% owned welded tube joint venture. The Company recognized $23.4 million of income for the year ended December 31, 2002 related to the take or pay provisions of the Boeing LTA, as amended. The terms of the amended Boeing LTA allow Boeing to purchase up to 7.5 million pounds of titanium product annually from TIMET through 2007, but limit TIMETs maximum quarterly volume obligation to 3.0 million pounds. The LTA is structured as a take or pay agreement such that, beginning in calendar year 2002, Boeing forfeits $3.80 per pound of its advance payment in the event that its orders for delivery are less than 7.5 million pounds in any given calendar year. The Company recognizes income to the extent Boeings year to date orders for delivery plus TIMETs maximum quarterly volume obligations for the remainder of the year total less than 7.5 million pounds. This income is recognized as other operating income and is not included in sales revenue, sales volume or gross margin. Based on actual purchases of approximately 1.3 million pounds during 2002, the Company recognized other income for 6.2 million pounds that Boeing did not purchase under the LTA during 2002. 22 2001 operations. Sales of mill products in 2001 increased 11% from $326.3 million in 2000 to $363.3 million in 2001. This increase was principally due to a 7% increase in mill product sales volume and changes in customer and product mix. The Companys estimated shipment volume to the commercial aerospace sector increased approximately 14% during 2001 compared to 2000. Mill product average selling prices (expressed in U.S. dollars using actual foreign currency exchange rates prevailing during the respective periods) during 2001 approximated 2000 selling prices. In billing currencies (which exclude the effects of foreign currency translation), mill product average selling prices increased 2% over 2000 levels. Melted product sales increased 35% from $47.4 million in 2000 to $64.1 million in 2001 due to the net effects of a 27% increase in melted product sales volume, an 8% increase in melted product average selling prices and changes in customer and product mix. Gross margin was 8% of sales in 2001, compared to 1% in the prior year, primarily reflecting the net effects of higher selling prices, higher operating rates at certain plants, lower sponge costs and changes in customer and product mix. Gross margin for 2001 was adversely impacted by higher scrap costs, higher energy costs, $10.8 million of equipment impairment charges discussed below and $3.3 million of estimated costs related to the tungsten inclusion matter. In comparison, gross margin in 2000 was adversely impacted by a $3.5 million equipment impairment charge and a $3.3 million charge for anticipated environmental remediation costs. During the second quarter of 2001, the Company determined that an impairment of the carrying amount of certain long lived assets located at its Millbury, Massachusetts facility had occurred, as the assets undiscounted future cash flows could no longer support their carrying amount. This determination was made after the Company completed studies of the potential uses of these assets in the foreseeable future as well as the economic viability of those alternatives. As a result, the Company recorded a $10.8 million pre tax impairment charge to cost of sales in 2001, representing the difference between the assets previous carrying amounts and their estimated fair values, based on a third party appraisal. In April 2001, the Company reached a settlement of the litigation between TIMET and Boeing related to the parties 1997 LTA. Pursuant to the settlement, the Company received a cash payment of $82 million and recorded approximately $73 million (cash settlement less legal fees) as other operating income, with partially offsetting operating expenses of approximately $6.2 million for employee incentive compensation and other costs reported as a component of selling, general, administrative and development expense, resulting in a net pre tax income effect of $66.8 million in 2001. Selling, general, administrative and development expenses increased 18% in 2001 compared to 2000 principally due to the approximate $6.2 million of employee incentive compensation discussed above. Equity in earnings (losses) of joint ventures in 2001 increased by $3.4 million from 2000 principally due to the increase in earnings of VALTIMET, the Companys 44% owned welded tube joint venture. Other operating income (expense), net in 2000 reflected a $2.0 million gain related to the termination of the Companys 1990 agreement to sell titanium sponge to Union Titanium Sponge Corporation, which was offset by a $2.8 million restructuring charge related to the Companys plan to address then current market and operating conditions. 23 Non operating income (expense), net. Year ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 (In thousands) Dividends and interest income $ 118 $ 5,460 $ 6,154 SMC impairment charge (27,500) (61,519) Surety bond guarantee (1,575) Gain on sale of castings joint venture 1,205 Loss on early extinguishment of debt (1,343) Foreign exchange gain (loss) (587) 92 (1,085) Interest expense (3,381) (4,060) (7,704) Other income (expense) (761) 18 (53) $ (33,686) $ (60,009) $ (2,826) Dividends and interest income during 2000 and 2001 consisted principally of dividends on the Companys investment in the $80 million non voting convertible preferred securities of SMC. Because of various factors affecting SMC subsequent to the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the Company undertook an assessment of its investment in the SMC securities in the fourth quarter of 2001 with the assistance of an external valuation specialist. The SMC convertible preferred securities are not publicly traded and, accordingly, quoted market prices are unavailable. As such, the assessment of fair value of these securities required significant judgment and considered a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the financial health and prospects of SMC and market yields of comparable securities. The assessment indicated that it was unlikely the Company would recover its then existing carrying amount, including accrued dividends and interest, of the securities in accordance with the securities contractual terms and that an other than temporary decline in the fair value of its investment had occurred. The Company recorded a $61.5 million pre tax impairment charge in the fourth quarter of 2001 to reduce the carrying amount of this investment, including accrued dividends and interest, to an estimated fair value of $27.5 million. At that time the Company also ceased accruing dividend income on these securities. Subsequently, on March 27, 2002, SMC and its U.S. subsidiaries filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. As a result, the Company undertook a further assessment of its investment in SMC, again with the assistance of the same external valuation specialist, and recorded an additional $27.5 million impairment charge during the first quarter of 2002 for an other than temporary decline in the estimated fair value of its investment in SMC. This charge reduced the Companys carrying amount of its investment in SMC to zero. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 24 TIMET is the primary obligor on two workers compensation bonds issued on behalf of a former subsidiary, Freedom Forge Corporation ("Freedom Forge"), which TIMET sold in 1989. The bonds were provided as part of the conditions imposed on Freedom Forge in order to self insure its workers compensation obligations. Each of the bonds has a maximum obligation of $1.5 million. Freedom Forge filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on July 13, 2001, and discontinued payment on the underlying workers compensation claims in November 2001. During the third quarter of 2002, TIMET received notices that the issuers of the bonds were required to make payments on one of the bonds with respect to certain of these claims and were requesting reimbursement from TIMET. Based upon current loss projections, the Company anticipates claims will be incurred up to the maximum amount payable under the bond and, therefore, recorded $1.6 million for this bond (including $0.1 million in legal fees reimbursable to the issuer of the bond) as other non operating expense in 2002. Through December 31, 2002, TIMET has reimbursed the issuer approximately $0.4 million under this bond. At this time the Company understands that no claims have been paid under the second bond, and no such payments are currently anticipated. Accordingly, no accrual has been recorded for potential claims that could be filed under the second bond. TIMET may revise its estimated liability under these bonds in the future as additional facts become known or claims develop. Interest expense for 2002 decreased 17% compared to 2001, primarily due to lower average outstanding borrowings and lower interest rates during 2002. Interest expense for 2001 decreased over 2000 primarily due to the paydown of the Companys revolving U.S. debt following settlement of the Boeing related litigation. In 2000, the Company sold its 20% interest in a castings joint venture with Wyman Gordon (the 80% owner) to Wyman Gordon for approximately $7 million and recorded a gain on the sale of approximately $1.2 million. The Company also recorded a $1.3 million pre tax loss on the early extinguishment of debt related to deferred financing costs that the Company was required to write off in conjunction with the early termination of a previous bank financing agreement. This amount was previously reflected as an extraordinary item ($0.8 million net of tax); however, based on the Companys adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 145, Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections in 2002, this amount was reassessed, whereby the Company determined this loss did not meet the necessary "unusual and infrequent" criteria to be considered an extraordinary item. Therefore, the Company was required to retroactively reclassify this amount to non operating income (loss). See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income taxes. Based on the Companys recent history of U.S. losses, its near term outlook and managements evaluation of available tax planning strategies, in the fourth quarter of 2001 the Company concluded that realization of its previously recorded U.S. deferred tax assets did not continue to meet the "more likely than not" recognition criteria. Accordingly, during 2001 the Company increased its U.S. deferred tax valuation allowance by $35.5 million to offset deferred tax benefits related to net U.S. deferred tax assets, primarily net operating loss and minimum tax credit carryforwards. Additionally, the Company determined that it would not recognize a deferred tax benefit related to future U.S. losses continuing for an uncertain period of time. The Company increased its U.S. deferred tax valuation allowance by $39.4 million in 2002 based upon additional U.S. losses and increases to the U.S. minimum pension liability. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 25 During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company was required to record a charge to other comprehensive loss to reflect an increase in its U.K. minimum pension liability. The related tax effect of this charge resulted in the Company shifting from a net deferred tax liability position to a net deferred tax asset position. Based on the Companys recent history of U.K. losses, its near term outlook and managements evaluation of available tax planning strategies, the Company determined that it would not recognize this deferred tax asset because it did not meet the "more likely than not" recognition criteria. Accordingly, the Company recorded a U.K. deferred tax asset valuation allowance of $7.2 million through other comprehensive income in the fourth quarter to offset the related U.K. deferred tax asset that arose due to the increase in U.K. minimum pension liabilities. Commencing in the first quarter of 2003 and continuing for an uncertain period of time, the Company will not recognize deferred tax benefits related to either future U.K. losses or future increases in U.K. minimum pension liabilities. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. During the first quarter of 2002, the Job Creation and Worker Assistance Act of 2002 (the "JCWA Act") was signed into law. The Company benefits from certain provisions of the JCWA Act, which liberalized certain net operating loss ("NOL") and alternative minimum tax restrictions. Prior to the law change, NOLs could be carried back two years and forward 20 years. The JCWA Act increases the carryback period for losses generated in 2001 and 2002 to five years with no change to the carryforward period. In addition, losses generated in 2001 and 2002 can be carried back and offset against 100% of a taxpayers alternative minimum taxable income ("AMTI"). Prior to the law change, an NOL could offset no more than 90% of a taxpayers AMTI. The suspension of the 90% limitation is also applicable to NOLs carried forward into 2001 and 2002. Based on these changes, the Company recognized $1.8 million of refundable U.S. income taxes during the first quarter of 2002. The Company received $0.8 million of this refund in the fourth quarter of 2002. Minority interest. Annual dividend expense related to the Companys 6.625% Convertible Preferred Securities generally approximates $13.3 million and is reported as minority interest. In 2000, this expense was reported net of allocable income taxes; however, as a result of the Companys decision to increase its deferred tax valuation allowance as described above, no income tax benefit associated with this expense was recorded and this expense was reported gross in 2002 and 2001. In addition, in 2001 the Company recorded $0.5 million of pre tax dividend expense related to dividends in arrears. In April 2000, the Company exercised its right to defer future dividend payments on these securities. On June 1, 2001, the Company resumed payment of dividends on these securities, made the scheduled payment of $3.3 million and paid the previously deferred aggregate dividends of $13.9 million. In October 2002, the Company again exercised its right to defer future dividend payments on these securities, effective with the Companys December 1, 2002 scheduled dividend payment. Dividends will continue to accrue at the coupon rate on the principal and unpaid dividends and have been classified as long term in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company will consider resuming payment of dividends on the Convertible Preferred Securities once the outlook for the Companys business improves substantially. Other minority interest relates primarily to the 30% interest in TIMET Savoie held by CEZUS. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 26 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle. On January 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Under SFAS No. 142, goodwill is no longer amortized on a periodic basis, but instead is subject to a two step impairment test to be performed on at least an annual basis. In order to test for transitional impairment, SFAS No. 142 required the Company to identify its reporting units and determine the carrying amount of each reporting unit by assigning its assets and liabilities, including existing goodwill and intangible assets, to those reporting units as of January 1, 2002. The Company determined that it operates one reporting unit, as that term is defined by SFAS No. 142, consisting of the Company in total. The first step of the impairment test required the Company to determine the fair value of its reporting unit and compare it to that reporting units carrying amount. This evaluation was completed with the assistance of an external valuation specialist and considered a combination of fair value indicators including quoted market prices, prices of comparable businesses and discounted cash flows. The evaluation, which was completed during the second quarter of 2002, indicated that the Companys recorded goodwill might be impaired and required the Company to complete the second step of the impairment test. The second step of the impairment test, which was completed during the third quarter of 2002, required the Company to compare the implied fair value of its reporting units goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. With the assistance of the external valuation specialist utilized in the step one testing, the Company determined the implied fair value of its goodwill was zero. Accordingly, the Company recorded a non cash goodwill impairment charge of $44.3 million, representing the entire balance of the Companys recorded goodwill at January 1, 2002. There was no income tax benefit associated with this charge. While the goodwill associated with the Companys U.S. operations is deductible for income tax purposes, the Company does not currently recognize an income tax benefit associated with its U.S. losses. In addition the goodwill associated with the Companys European operations is not deductible for income tax purposes. Pursuant to the transition requirements of SFAS No. 142, this charge has been reported in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle as of January 1, 2002. The effect of the change in accounting principle on the first quarter of 2002 was to increase the Companys first quarter net loss by $44.3 million, or $14.04 per share, to $80.4 million, or $25.47 per share. The change had no effect on the second, third or fourth quarters of 2002. European operations. The Company has substantial operations and assets located in Europe, principally the United Kingdom, with smaller operations in France and Italy. Titanium is sold worldwide, and many factors influencing the Companys U.S. and European operations are similar. Approximately 44% of the Companys sales revenue originated in Europe in 2002, of which approximately 60% was denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, principally the British pound sterling and the euro. Certain purchases of raw materials, principally titanium sponge and alloys, for the Companys European operations are denominated in U.S. dollars, while labor and other production costs are primarily denominated in local currencies. The functional currencies of the Companys European subsidiaries are those of their respective countries; thus, the U.S. dollar value of these subsidiaries sales and costs that are denominated in currencies other than their functional currency, including sales and costs denominated in U.S. dollars, are subject to exchange rate fluctuations which may impact reported earnings and may affect the comparability of period to period operating results. Borrowings of the Companys European operations may be in U.S. dollars or in functional currencies. The Companys export sales from the U.S. are denominated in U.S. dollars and as such are not subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations. 27 The Company does not use currency contracts to hedge its currency exposures. Net currency transaction gains/losses included in earnings were a loss of $0.6 million in 2002, a gain of $0.1 million in 2001 and a loss of $1.1 million in 2000. At December 31, 2002, consolidated assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currencies were approximately $29.8 million and $36.6 million, respectively, consisting primarily of U.S. dollar cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable and borrowings. Related party transactions. The Company is a party to certain transactions with related parties. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Supplemental information. In July 2002, the Company successfully negotiated new three year labor agreements with its labor unions at its Toronto, Ohio facility. The Companys European operations require annual labor union negotiations, at which all contracts were successfully extended during 2002, and such negotiations are currently under way for 2003. On February 4, 2003, the Companys stockholders approved a proposal to amend TIMETs Certificate of Incorporation to effect a reverse stock split of the Companys common stock at a ratio of one share of post split common stock for each eight, nine or ten shares of pre split common stock issued and outstanding, with the final exchange ratio to be selected by the Board of Directors. Subsequently, the Companys Board of Directors unanimously approved the reverse stock split on the basis of one share of post split common stock for each outstanding ten shares of pre split common stock. The reverse stock split became effective after the close of trading on February 14, 2003. All share and per share disclosures for all periods presented in MD&A have been adjusted to give effect to the reverse stock split. Outlook. The Outlook section contains a number of forward looking statements, all of which are based on current expectations, and exclude the effect of potential future charges related to restructurings, asset impairments, valuation allowances and similar items. Undue reliance should not be placed on forward looking statements, as more fully discussed in the "Forward Looking Information" statement of this Annual Report. Actual results may differ materially. See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements regarding commitments, contingencies, legal, environmental and other matters, which may materially affect the Companys future business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. As previously discussed, the economic slowdown in the United States and other regions of the world in the latter part of 2001 in combination with the effects of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks negatively impacted commercial air travel in the United States and abroad throughout 2002. Although general economic conditions have improved relative to 2001 levels, current data indicates that commercial airline passenger traffic remains below pre attack levels, and the Company expects the current slowdown in the commercial aerospace sector to continue through 2005 before beginning a modest upturn in 2006. In addition, the continuing war on terrorism and potential global conflicts could damage an already fragile economy, delay the recovery in airline passenger traffic and exacerbate the current downturn in the commercial aerospace industry. As a result, demand for titanium in the commercial aerospace market remains soft. 28 In response, airlines have announced a number of actions to reduce both costs and capacity including, but not limited to, the early retirement of airplanes, the deferral of scheduled deliveries of new aircraft and allowing purchase options to expire. The major commercial airframe and jet engine manufacturers have substantially reduced their production levels in 2003, and the forecast of engine and aircraft deliveries over the next few years is expected to remain at these reduced levels. The Company expects that aggregate industry mill product shipments will decrease in 2003 by approximately 3% to about 42,500 metric tons. The Company believes that demand for mill products for the commercial aerospace sector could decline by up to 15% in 2003, primarily due to a combination of reduced aircraft production rates and excess inventory accumulated throughout the aerospace supply chain since September 11, 2001. Excess inventory accumulation typically leads to order demand for titanium products falling below actual consumption. According to The Airline Monitor, a leading aerospace publication, the worldwide commercial airline industry reported an estimated operating loss of approximately $8 billion in 2002, compared with an operating loss of $11 billion in 2001 and operating income of $11 billion in 2000. The Airline Monitor traditionally issues forecasts for commercial aircraft deliveries each January and July. According to The Airline Monitor, large commercial aircraft deliveries for the 1996 to 2002 period peaked in 1999 with 889 aircraft, including 254 wide body aircraft that use substantially more titanium than their narrow body counterparts. Large commercial aircraft deliveries totaled 673 (including 176 wide bodies) in 2002. The Airline Monitors most recently issued forecast of January 2003 calls for 580 deliveries in 2003, 570 deliveries in 2004 and 560 deliveries in 2005. Relative to 2002, these forecasted delivery rates represent anticipated declines of about 14% in 2003, 15% in 2004 and 17% in 2005. After 2005, The Airline Monitor calls for a continued increase each year in large commercial aircraft deliveries through 2010, with forecasted deliveries of 780 aircraft in 2009 exceeding 2002 levels. Deliveries of titanium generally precede aircraft deliveries by about one year, although this varies considerably by titanium product. This correlates to the Companys cycle, which historically precedes the cycle of the aircraft industry and related deliveries. The Company can give no assurance as to the extent or duration of the current commercial aerospace cycle or the extent to which it will affect demand for the Companys products. Although the current business environment makes it particularly difficult to predict TIMETs future performance, the Company believes sales revenue in 2003 will remain flat compared to 2002 at approximately $360 million to $370 million, reflecting the combined effects of increases in sales volume offset by continued softening of market selling prices and changes in customer and product mix. Mill product sales volume is expected to increase approximately 5% from 2002 levels to about 9,300 metric tons and melted product sales volume is expected to increase approximately 40% relative to 2002, to approximately 3,300 metric tons. The Company expects approximately 55% of its 2003 mill product sales volume will be derived from the commercial aerospace sector (as compared to 59% in 2002), with the balance from military aerospace, industrial and emerging markets. The overall mill product sales volume increase in 2003 is principally driven by an anticipated increase in the Companys military aerospace, military armor and industrial sales volume compared to 2002, partially offset by sales volume declines in commercial aerospace and various emerging markets. 29 Market selling prices on new orders for titanium products, while difficult to forecast, are expected to continue to soften throughout 2003. However, about one half of the Companys anticipated commercial aerospace volume in 2003 is under LTAs that provide the Company with selling price stability on that portion of its business. The Company may sell substantially similar titanium products to different customers at varying selling prices due to the effect of LTAs, timing of purchase orders and market fluctuations. There are also wide differences in selling prices across different titanium products that the Company offers. Accordingly, the mix of customers and products sold affects the average selling price realized and has an important impact on sales revenue and gross margin. Average selling prices, as reported by the Company, are a reflection not just of actual selling prices received by the Company, but other related factors such as currency exchange rates and customer and product mix in a given period. Consequently, changes in average selling prices from period to period will be impacted by changes occurring not just in actual prices, but in these other factors as well. The Companys cost of sales is affected by a number of factors including, among others, customer and product mix, material yields, plant operating rates, raw material costs, labor and energy costs. Raw material costs represent the largest portion of the Companys manufacturing cost structure. The Company expects to manufacture a significant portion of its titanium sponge requirements in 2003 and purchase the balance. The Company expects the aggregate cost of purchased sponge and scrap to remain relatively stable in 2003 as compared to 2002. The Company expects its overall capacity utilization to average about 50% in 2003, down from 55% in 2002; however, the Companys practical capacity utilization measures can vary significantly based on product mix. As the Company reduces production volume in response to reduced requirements, certain manufacturing overhead costs decrease at a slower rate and to a lesser extent than production volume changes, generally resulting in higher costs relative to production levels. During 2002 the Company undertook a number of actions to reduce its costs, including reductions in employment levels, more stringent spending controls and programs to improve manufacturing yields. However, the continued softening of market selling prices is expected to substantially offset the benefits of these actions, resulting in an expected gross margin in 2003 of between negative 2% and break even. The Company expects gross margin to improve during the year as production volumes begin to increase somewhat. Selling, general, administrative and development expenses for 2003 should approximate $40 million. Interest expense in 2003 should approximate $3 million. Minority interest on the Companys Convertible Preferred Securities in 2003 should approximate $14 million, including additional dividend costs related to the deferral of the related dividend payments. The Company anticipates that Boeing will purchase about 0.8 million pounds of product in 2003. At this projected order level, the Company expects to recognize about $25 million of income under the Boeing LTAs take or pay provisions in 2003. Any such earnings will be reported as operating income, but will not be included in sales revenue, sales volume or gross margin. 30 The Companys effective consolidated income tax rate is expected to be significantly below the U.S. statutory rate, as no income tax benefit is expected to be recorded on U.S. or U.K. losses during 2003. During the fourth quarter of 2002, TIMET UK began to generate net deferred tax assets, and the Company determined that future realization of its UK deferred tax assets did not meet the "more likely than not" recognition criteria. Therefore, no income tax benefit is expected to be recorded on UK losses during 2003. The Company operates in several tax jurisdictions and is subject to varying income tax rates. As a result, the geographic mix of pre tax income (loss) can significantly impact the Companys overall effective tax rate. The Company presently expects an operating loss in 2003 of $15 million to $25 million and a net loss of $35 million to $45 million, before any potential restructuring or other special charges or changes in accounting principle. The Company presently anticipates its results in the last half of 2003 will be improved compared to the first half due to the improvement in gross margins and because the estimated $25 million expected to be earned under the take or pay provision of the Boeing LTA will be recognized in the last half of the year. The Company expects to generate $20 million to $30 million in cash flow from operations during 2003. This is principally driven by reductions in working capital, especially inventory, and the deferral of the dividends on the Convertible Preferred Securities. The Company received the 2003 advance of $27.7 million ($28.5 million less $0.8 million for 2002 subcontractor purchases) from Boeing in early January 2003. Capital expenditures in 2003 should approximate $10 million, principally covering capital maintenance, safety and environmental programs. Depreciation and amortization should approximate $36 million. Bank debt is expected to decrease in 2003 as compared to year end 2002 levels. At December 31, 2002, the Company had over $130 million of borrowing availability under its various worldwide credit agreements. The Company believes its cash, cash flow from operations and borrowing availability will satisfy its expected working capital, capital expenditures and other requirements in 2003. The Company is not satisfied with the projected results for 2003 and has undertaken further cost reduction measures. The Company is redoubling its efforts to achieve aggressive spending reductions, supplier price concessions and manufacturing process improvements, and additional salaried headcount reductions are expected. On a longer term basis, the Company is continuing to evaluate product line and facilities consolidations that may permit it to meaningfully reduce its cost structure in the future while maintaining and even increasing its market share. Accordingly, the Companys results in 2003 could include one or more charges for restructurings, asset impairments or similar charges that might be material. Likewise, to the extent that cost reductions meet or exceed target goals, results may be somewhat better than currently forecast. In 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations. Under SFAS No. 143, the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation covered under the scope of SFAS No. 143 is recognized in the period in which the liability is incurred, with an offsetting increase in the carrying amount of the related long lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted to its present value, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. Upon settlement of the liability, an entity either settles the obligation for its recorded amount or incurs a gain or loss upon settlement. The Company expects to recognize a cummulative effect loss of approximately $0.2 million and an asset retirement obligation of approximately $0.4 million upon adoption of SFAS No. 143 on January 1, 2003. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 31 In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others. The Company has adopted the disclosure requirements of the Interpretation as of December 31, 2002. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements related to discussion of the Companys workers compensation surety bond guarantees. The Company will adopt the recognition and initial measurement provisions of this Interpretation on a prospective basis for any guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities. Except for TIMET Capital Trust I (discussed in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), the Company does not believe it has any variable interest entity covered by the scope of FASB Interpretation No. 46. The Company has consolidated TIMET Capital Trust I since its formation, as the Company owns 100% of the trusts outstanding voting securities. The Company will adopt this Interpretation no later than the quarter ended September 30, 2003. The adoption of this Interpretation is not expected to have a material effect on the Company. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The Companys consolidated cash flows provided by operating, investing and financing activities for each of the past three years are presented below. The following should be read in conjunction with the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto. Year ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 (In thousands) Cash provided (used) by: Operating activities: Excluding changes in assets and liabilities $ (4,100) $ 97,908 $ (7,851) Changes in assets and liabilities (9,495) (35,334) 73,313 (13,595) 62,574 65,462 Investing activities (7,467) (16,093) (4,218) Financing activities 3,523 (31,358) (72,812) Net cash (used) provided by operating, investing and financing activities $ (17,539) $ 15,123 $ (11,568) Operating activities. Cash (used) provided by operating activities, excluding changes in assets and liabilities, during the past three years generally follows the trend in operating results. Changes in assets and liabilities reflect the timing of purchases, production and sales, and can vary significantly from period to period. Accounts receivable decreased during 2002 primarily as a result of reduced sales, partially offset by an increase in days sales outstanding as certain customers extended their payment terms to the Company. Accounts receivable increased in 2001, principally as a result of increased sales. Accounts receivable decreased during 2000, reflecting the decrease in sales levels as well as an improvement in collections as reflected by a decrease in the average number of days that receivables were outstanding. The significant reduction in receivables in 2000 was also attributable to $16 million of customer payments received in the first quarter of 2000 related to a bill and hold arrangement entered into near the end of 1999. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 32 Inventories decreased during 2002 primarily as a result of reduced production in the fourth quarter of 2002 and an increase in the Companys reserves for excess inventories, which the Company recorded in response to decreased demand for its products and other changes in business conditions. Inventories increased in 2001, reflecting material purchases and production rates that were based on expected sales levels higher than actual sales levels achieved. Due to the impact of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, a number of customer order deferrals and cancellations were received late in 2001, contributing to the inventory increase. The Company reduced inventories during 2000 as excess raw materials and other inventory items were consumed and inventory reduction and control efforts were put in place. In April 2001, the Company reached a settlement of the litigation between TIMET and Boeing. Pursuant to the settlement, the Company received a cash payment of $82 million ($73 million net of legal fees) and in December 2001 received a $28.5 million customer advance from Boeing related to fiscal 2002 purchases. This advance was reduced to $0.8 million at the end of 2002 as a result of shipments and orders from Boeing as well as the recognition of take or pay income. Through 2007 the Company will receive a similar annual advance in January of the year to which the advance is related. See Notes 10 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Net accounts with related parties decreased during 2002 primarily as a result of cash received from Tremont related to an intercorporate services agreement and from a reduction in sales to VALTIMET. Changes in net accounts with related parties during 2001 and 2000 resulted primarily from relative changes in receivable levels with joint ventures. Prepaid expenses and other current assets decreased during 2002 due to the receipt of raw materials for which the Company had made advance payments during 2001 and the ongoing usage of other prepaid assets. Dividends for the period October 1998 through December 1999 on the Companys investment in SMC 6.625% convertible preferred securities were deferred by SMC. In April 2000, SMC resumed current dividend payments of $1.3 million each quarter; however, dividends and interest in arrears were not paid. On October 11, 2001, the Company was notified by SMC of SMCs intention to again defer the payment of dividends effective with the dividend due on October 28, 2001. The SMC convertible preferred securities held by TIMET are not publicly traded and, accordingly, quoted market prices are unavailable. As more fully discussed in "Results of Operations Non operating income (expense), net", the Company recorded a pre tax impairment charge of $61.5 million related to these securities, including accrued dividends and interest, in the fourth quarter of 2001 and ceased accruing dividend income on these securities at that time. Additionally, the Company recorded a charge of $27.5 million related to these securities in the first quarter of 2002 that reduced the carrying amount of these securities to zero. The ultimate amount, if any, which the Company may realize from its investment in the SMC securities is unknown due to the uncertainties associated with SMCs bankruptcy proceedings; however, the Company believes it is unlikely that it will recover any amount from this investment. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Deferred income tax benefits in 2002 primarily reflect benefits recognized related to European losses, as the Company did not record any benefits related to its U.S. losses. Beginning in 2003, the Company will also not record any benefits related to its U.K. losses. Deferred income taxes in 2001 were primarily due to an increase in the Companys deferred tax asset valuation allowance to offset previously recorded tax benefits which did not meet the "more likely than not" recognition criteria. Deferred income taxes in 2000 primarily reflect net tax refunds of $8 million. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 33 As more fully discussed in "Results of Operations Minority interest," in October 2002 the Company exercised its right to defer future dividend payments on its Convertible Preferred Securities, although dividends will continue to accrue at the coupon rate on the principal and unpaid dividends. This deferral was effective beginning with the Companys December 1, 2002 scheduled dividend payment. The Company will consider resuming payment of dividends on the Convertible Preferred Securities once the outlook for the Companys business improves substantially. Since the Company exercised its right to defer dividend payments, it is unable under the terms of these securities to, among other things, pay dividends on or reacquire its capital stock during the deferral period. However, the Company is permitted to reacquire the Convertible Preferred Securities during the deferral period, subject to certain U.S. credit facility limitations. In April 2000, the Company similarly exercised its right to defer future dividend payments on its Convertible Preferred Securities. In the second quarter of 2001, a portion of the Boeing settlement, described above, was used to pay the previously deferred aggregate dividends of $13.9 million and resume the payment of the regularly scheduled dividends. Changes in accrued dividends on Convertible Preferred Securities reflect this activity. Investing activities. The Companys capital expenditures were $7.8 million in 2002, $16.1 million in 2001 and $11.2 million in 2000. Capital spending for 2002 and 2001 was principally for safety and maintaining capacity. Capital spending for 2000 was principally for capacity enhancements, capital maintenance, and safety and environmental projects. Proceeds of $7.0 million from the sale of the Companys castings joint venture in 2000 represent the proceeds from the Companys sale to Wyman Gordon of the Companys 20% interest in Wyman Gordon Titanium Castings, LLC. This transaction is more fully described in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Financing activities. Net borrowings of $6.3 million during 2002 are primarily attributable to increases in working capital (exclusive of cash). TIMET Savoie made a $1.1 million dividend payment to CEZUS in the second quarter of 2002. The Company incurred approximately $1.1 million in financing costs in conjunction with the Companys amendment of its U.S. revolving credit agreement in 2002. These costs are deferred and amortized over the life of the agreement, which matures in February 2006. See further discussion in "Borrowing arrangements." Net repayments of $32 million in 2001 are principally the result of the Companys litigation settlement with Boeing. Net repayments of $70 million in 2000 reflect reductions of outstanding borrowings principally in the U.S. resulting from collection of receivables, reduction in inventories, tax refunds, proceeds from the sale of the Companys casting joint venture and deferral of dividend payments on the Companys Convertible Preferred Securities. In addition, the Company incurred approximately $2.1 million in financing costs in 2000 in conjunction with the Companys completion of a new U.S. revolving credit agreement. Borrowing arrangements. At December 31, 2002, the Companys net debt (cash and cash equivalents less indebtedness, excluding capital lease obligations, Convertible Preferred Securities and accrued dividends thereon) was approximately $13.2 million, consisting of $6.2 million of cash and equivalents and $19.4 million of debt (principally borrowings under the Companys U.S. and U.K. credit agreements). This compares to a net cash position of approximately $12.1 million as of December 31, 2001. During January 2003, the Company received approximately $27.7 million from Boeing under the terms of the parties amended LTA, which was used to reduce outstanding borrowings under the Companys U.S. credit agreement. 34 On October 23, 2002, the Company amended its existing U.S. asset based revolving credit agreement, extending the maturity date to February 2006. Under the terms of the amendment, borrowings are limited to the lesser of $105 million or a formula determined borrowing base derived from the value of accounts receivable, inventory and equipment ("borrowing availability"). This facility requires the Companys U.S. daily cash receipts to be used to reduce outstanding borrowings, which may then be reborrowed, subject to the terms of the agreement. Interest generally accrues at rates that vary from LIBOR plus 2% to LIBOR plus 2.5%. Borrowings are collateralized by substantially all of the Companys U.S. assets. The credit agreement prohibits the payment of dividends on TIMETs Convertible Preferred Securities if "excess availability," as defined, is less than $25 million, limits additional indebtedness, prohibits the payment of dividends on the Companys common stock if excess availability is less than $40 million, requires compliance with certain financial covenants and contains other covenants customary in lending transactions of this type. The Company was in compliance in all material respects with all covenants for all periods during the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001. Excess availability is essentially unused borrowing availability and is defined as borrowing availability less outstanding borrowings and certain contractual commitments such as letters of credit. As of December 31, 2002, excess availability was approximately $85 million. The weighted average interest rate on borrowings outstanding under these credit agreements was 3.7% and 5.3% as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The Companys U.S. credit agreement allows the lender to modify the borrowing base formulas at its discretion, subject to certain conditions. During the second quarter of 2002, the Companys lender elected to exercise such discretion and modified the Companys borrowing base formulas, which reduced the amount that the Company could have borrowed against its inventory and equipment by approximately $7 million. In the event the lender exercises such discretion in the future, such event could have a material adverse impact on the Companys liquidity. Borrowings outstanding under this U.S. facility are classified as a current liability. The Companys subsidiary, TIMET UK, has a credit agreement that provides for borrowings limited to the lesser of (pound)22.5 million or a formula determined borrowing base derived from the value of accounts receivable, inventory and equipment ("borrowing availability"). The credit agreement includes a revolving and term loan facility and an overdraft facility (the "U.K. facilities"). On December 20, 2002, the Company renewed and amended its existing U.K. facilities, extending the maturity date to December 20, 2005 and reducing the maximum borrowing base from (pound)30.0 million to (pound)22.5 million to more appropriately match TIMET UKs collateral base. Borrowings under the U.K. facilities can be in various currencies including U.S. dollars, British pounds sterling and euros; accrue interest at rates that vary from LIBOR plus 1% to LIBOR plus 1.25%; and are collateralized by substantially all of TIMET UKs assets. The U.K. facilities require the maintenance of certain financial ratios and amounts and other covenants customary in lending transactions of this type. TIMET UK was in compliance in all material respects with all covenants for all periods during the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001. The U.K. overdraft facility is subject to annual review in December of each year. In the event the overdraft facility is not renewed, the Company believes it could refinance any outstanding overdraft borrowings under either the revolving or term loan features of the U.K. facilities. Unused borrowing availability as of December 31, 2002 under the U.K. facilities was approximately $30 million. The weighted average interest rate on borrowings outstanding under these credit agreements was 4.6% and 3.6% as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. 35 The Company also has overdraft and other credit facilities at certain of its other European subsidiaries. These facilities accrue interest at various rates and are payable on demand. Unused borrowing availability as of December 31, 2002 under these facilities was approximately $16 million. The weighted average interest rate on borrowings outstanding under these credit agreements was 3.7% and 3.6% as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Although excess availability under TIMETs U.S. credit agreement remains above $40 million, no dividends were paid by TIMET on its common shares during 2002, 2001 or 2000. TIMET does not anticipate paying dividends on its common shares during 2003 and, as previously discussed, is not permitted to pay such dividends while deferring dividend payments on its Convertible Preferred Securities. Contractual commitments. As more fully described in Notes 11, 12, 18 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company is a party to various debt, lease and other agreements at December 31, 2002 that contractually and unconditionally commit the Company to pay certain amounts in the future. The following table summarizes such contractual commitments that are unconditional both in terms of timing and amount by the type and date of payment. Unconditional Payment Due Date 2004/ 2006/ 2008 & 2003 2005 2007 After Total Contractual Commitment (In thousands) Indebtedness $ 12,994 $ 6,401 $ $ $ 19,395 Capital leases 642 885 411 8,279 10,217 Operating leases 3,384 2,336 947 339 7,006 Obligations to Basic Management, Inc. 1,324 1,922 1,063 1,107 5,416 Minimum sponge purchase commitments (1) 9,975 19,950 19,950 49,875 Company obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trust holding solely subordinated debt securities ("BUCS") 201,241 201,241 Accrued dividends on BUCS (2) 4,462 4,462 $ 28,319 $ 31,494 $ 22,371 $ 215,428 $ 297,612 (1) Commitments based on an assumed constant mix of products purchased. (2) Represents total dividends accrued on the BUCS at December 31, 2002, including dividends due on December 1, 2002 and deferred as of that date. Based on the deferral, the deferred dividends are not contractually due until March 1, 2008. 36 Defined benefit pension plans. The Company maintains two defined benefit pension plans in the U.S., one in the U.K. and one in France. The majority of the discussion below relates to the U.S. and U.K. plans, as the French plan is not material to the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets, Statements of Operations or Cash Flows. The Company recorded consolidated pension expense of $4.9 million, $1.5 million and $1.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Pension expense for these periods was calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, most significant of which are the discount rate and the expected long term rate of return on plan assets. The discount rate the Company utilizes for determining pension expense and pension obligations is based on a review of long term bonds (10 to 15 year maturities) that receive one of the two highest ratings given by recognized rating agencies (generally Merrill Lynch, Moodys, Solomon Smith Barney and UBS Warburg) as well as composite indices provided by the Companys actuaries. Changes in the Companys discount rate over the past three years reflect the decline in such bond rates during that time period. The Company establishes a rate that is used to determine obligations as of the year end date and expense for the subsequent year. The Company used the following discount rates for its pension plans: Discount rates used for: Obligation at Obligation at Obligation at December 31,2002 December 31,2001 December 31, 2000 and expense in 2003 and expense in 2002 and expense in 2001 U.S. Plans 6.25% 7.00% 7.25% U.K. Plan 5.70% 6.00% 6.00% In developing the Companys expected long term rate of return assumption, the Company evaluated historical market rates of return and input from its actuaries, including a review of asset class return expectations as well as long term inflation assumptions. Projected returns are based on broad equity (large cap, small cap and international) and bond (corporate and government) indices as well as an anticipation that the plans active investment managers will generate premiums above the standard market projections. The Companys assumed rate of return for 2002 was 9.00% for its U.S. plans and 7.50% for its U.K. plan based upon these projections. Lowering the expected long term rate of return on the Companys U.S. plans assets by 0.25% (from 9.00% to 8.75%) would have increased 2002 pension expense by approximately $0.1 million, and lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 7.00% to 6.75%) would have increased the Companys U.S. plans 2002 pension expense by approximately $0.1 million. Lowering the expected long term rate of return on the Companys U.K. plans assets by 0.25% (from 7.50% to 7.25%) would have increased 2002 pension expense by approximately $0.2 million, and lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% would have increased the Companys U.K. plans 2002 pension expense by approximately $0.5 million. 37 Based on continued market declines and losses on the plan assets during 2002, as well as future projected asset mix, the Company reduced its assumed long term rate of return for 2003 to 8.50% for its U.S. plans and 6.70% for its U.K. plan. The Companys future expected long term rate of return on plan assets for its U.S. and U.K. plans is based on an asset allocation assumption of 50% equity securities and 50% fixed income securities. Because of market fluctuations and prior funding strategies, actual asset allocation as of December 31, 2002 was 61% equity securities and 39% fixed income securities for the U.S. plans and 90% equity securities and 10% fixed income securities for the U.K. plan. The Company believes, however, that the plans future long term asset allocation on average will approximate the assumed 50/50 allocation. Although the expected rate of return is a long term measure, the Company will continue to evaluate its expected rate of return, at least annually, and will adjust it as considered necessary. Among other things, the Company bases its determination of pension expense for all plans on the fair value of plan assets. The expected return on the fair value of the plan assets, determined based on the expected long term rate of return, is a component of pension expense. This methodology further recognizes actual investment gains or losses (i.e. the difference between the expected and actual returns based on the market value of assets) in pension expense through amortization in future periods based upon the expected average remaining service life of the plan participants. Based on an expected rate of return on plan assets of 8.50%, a discount rate of 6.25% and various other assumptions, the Company estimates that pension expense for its U.S. plans will approximate $3.2 million in 2003, $2.6 million in 2004 and $2.0 million in 2005. A 0.25% increase (decrease) in the discount rate would decrease (increase) projected pension expense by approximately $0.1 million in 2003, 2004 and 2005. A 0.25% increase (decrease) in the long term rate of return would similarly decrease (increase) projected pension expense by approximately $0.1 million in 2003 and 2004 and by $0.2 million in 2005. Based on an expected rate of return on plan assets of 6.70%, a discount rate of 5.70% and various other assumptions (including an exchange rate of $1.55/(pound)1.00), the Company estimates that pension expense for its U.K. plan will approximate $6.5 million in 2003, $6.1 million in 2004 and $5.6 million in 2005. A 0.25% increase (decrease) in the discount rate would decrease (increase) projected pension expense by approximately $0.5 million in 2003 and in 2004 and $0.6 million in 2005. A 0.25% increase (decrease) in the long term rate of return would decrease (increase) projected pension expense by approximately $0.2 million in 2003 and 2004 and $0.3 million in 2005. Actual future pension expense will depend on future actual investment performance, changes in future discount rates and various other factors related to the populations participating in the Companys pension plans. The Company made cash contributions of approximately $1.2 million in 2002 and $2.7 million in 2001 to the U.S. plans and cash contributions of approximately $6.1 million in 2002 and $3.6 million in 2001 to the U.K. plan. Based upon the current underfunded status of the plans and the actuarial assumptions being used for 2003, the Company believes that it will be required to make cash contributions of approximately $3.8 million in 2003, $7.0 million in 2004 and $4.4 million in 2005 to the U.S. plans and approximately $6.5 million in 2003, $6.7 million in 2004 and $6.8 million in 2005 to the U.K. plan. Certain employee contributions are also required by the U.K. plan. 38 The value of the plans assets has decreased the past three years based mainly on poor performance from equity securities. The U.S. plans assets were $48.2 million, $56.5 million and $57.2 million at December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and the U.K. plans assets were $69.8 million, $79.0 million and $92.2 million at December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The combination of negative actual investment returns and declining discount rates have increased the Companys underfunded plan status (plan assets compared to accumulated benefit obligations) from $7.7 million at December 31, 2001 to $21.1 million at December 31, 2002 for the U.S. plans and from $12.2 million at December 31, 2001 to $40.0 million at December 31, 2002 for the U.K. plan. Because of this underfunded status, the Company was required to record an additional minimum pension liability charge to equity of $13 million related to the U.S. plans and $28 million (net of $1.6 million in taxes) related to the U.K. plan in 2002. Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions. The Company provides certain postretirement healthcare and life insurance ("OPEB") benefits to the majority of its U.S. employees upon retirement. The Company funds such OPEB benefits as they are incurred, net of any retiree contributions. The Company paid OPEB benefits, net of retiree contributions, in the amount of $4.6 million and $4.0 million during 2002 and 2001, respectively. The Company recorded consolidated OPEB expense of $2.9 million, $1.8 million and $1.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. OPEB expense for these periods was calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, most significant of which are the discount rate and the expected long term health care trend rate. The discount rate the Company utilizes for determining OPEB expense and OPEB obligations is the same as that used for the Companys U.S. pension plans. Lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 7.00% to 6.75%) would have increased the Companys 2002 OPEB expense by less than $0.1 million. The Company estimates the expected long term health care trend rate based upon input from specialists in this area, as provided by the Companys actuaries. In estimating the health care trend rate, the Company considers industry trends, the Companys actual healthcare cost experience and the Companys future benefit structure. For 2002, the Company used a beginning health care trend rate of 11.15%, which is projected to reduce to an ultimate rate of 5.00% in 2010. If the health care trend rate changed by 1.00% for each year, OPEB expense would have increased/decreased by approximately $0.3 million in 2002. For 2003, the Company is using a beginning health care trend rate of 11.35%, which is projected to reduce to an ultimate rate of 4.25% in 2010. The Company increased its beginning rate based upon actual plan and industry experience during 2002. However, the Company continues to believe the ultimate trend rate of 2010 is appropriate at this time. Based on a discount rate of 6.25%, a health care trend rate as discussed above and various other assumptions, the Company estimates that OPEB expense will approximate $2.7 million in 2003 and 2004 and $2.6 million in 2005. A 0.25% increase (decrease) in the discount rate would decrease (increase) projected OPEB expense by approximately $0.1 million in 2003, 2004 and 2005. A 1.0% increase (decrease) in the health care trend rate for each year would increase (decrease) projected OPEB expense by approximately $0.3 million in 2003, 2004 and 2005. 39 Environmental matters. See "Business Regulatory and environmental matters" in Item 1 and Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of environmental matters. Other. On September 9, 2002, Moodys Investor Service lowered its rating on the Companys Convertible Preferred Securities to Caa2 from B3. Standard & Poors Ratings Services ("S&P") lowered its rating on the Companys Convertible Preferred Securities to CCC from CCC on September 10, 2002, to C from CCC on October 29, 2002 and to D from CCC on December 2, 2002. The Companys ability to obtain additional capital in the future could be negatively affected by these rating actions. The Company periodically evaluates its liquidity requirements, capital needs and availability of resources in view of, among other things, its alternative uses of capital, debt service requirements, the cost of debt and equity capital and estimated future operating cash flows. As a result of this process, the Company has in the past, or in light of its current outlook, may in the future, seek to raise additional capital, modify its common and preferred dividend policies, restructure ownership interests, incur, refinance or restructure indebtedness, repurchase shares of common stock or Convertible Preferred Securities, sell assets, or take a combination of such steps or other steps to increase or manage its liquidity and capital resources. In the normal course of business, the Company investigates, evaluates, discusses and engages in acquisition, joint venture, strategic relationship and other business combination opportunities in the titanium, specialty metal and other industries. In the event of any future acquisition or joint venture opportunities, the Company may consider using then available liquidity, issuing equity securities or incurring additional indebtedness. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The Companys consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments, and select from a range of possible estimates and assumptions, that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reported period. On an on going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable, inventory allowances, impairments of investments in preferred securities and investments accounted for by the equity method, the recoverability of other long lived assets, including property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets, pension and other post retirement benefit obligations and the related underlying actuarial assumptions, the realization of deferred income tax assets, and accruals for environmental remediation, litigation, income tax and other contingencies. The Company bases its estimates and judgments, to varying degrees, on historical experience, advice of external specialists and various other factors it believes to be prudent under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from previously estimated amounts and such estimates, assumptions and judgments are regularly subject to revision. The policies and estimates discussed below are considered by management to be critical to an understanding of the Companys financial statements because their application requires the most significant judgments from management in estimating matters for financial reporting that are inherently uncertain. See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these policies and estimates, as well as discussion of additional accounting policies and estimates. 40 Impairments of long lived assets. Generally, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of long lived assets, including property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets, may not be recoverable, the Company prepares an evaluation of the assets or asset group. If this evaluation indicates that the carrying amount of the asset or asset group is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment would typically be calculated using discounted expected future cash flows or appraised values. All relevant factors are considered in determining whether an impairment exists. The Company completed an entity wide impairment assessment under SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets during the fourth quarter of 2002 in response to continued poor conditions in the commercial aerospace market. In order to complete this assessment, the Company identified its lowest level of identifiable cash flows, resulting in the identification of four asset groups U.S., U.K., France and Italy. Of these asset groups, Italy is not reliant on sales into the commercial aerospace market and therefore an analysis of its potential impairment was not considered necessary. The result of this assessment led the Company to conclude that there was no impairment related to the long lived assets in the three asset groups tested, as the undiscounted cash flows exceeded the net carrying value of the applicable net assets in each of the three asset groups. Although management utilizes certain external information sources such as The Airline Monitor as the basis for aerospace sales volume projections, significant management judgment is required in estimating other factors that are material to future cash flows including, but not limited to, customer demand, the Companys market position, selling prices, competitive forces and manufacturing costs. Future cash flows are inherently uncertain, and there can be no assurance that the Company will achieve the future cash flows reflected in its projections. The Company also completed an impairment assessment of its goodwill and intangible assets under SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, during 2002, as more fully discussed in "Results of Operations Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle." Management judgment was required in order to identify the Companys reporting units, determine the carrying amount of each reporting unit by assigning its assets and liabilities, including existing goodwill and intangible assets, to those reporting units as of January 1, 2002, and determine the implied fair value of its goodwill. This evaluation, which was completed with the assistance of an external valuation specialist and considered a combination of fair value indicators including quoted market prices, prices of comparable businesses and discounted projected cash flows, indicated that the Companys recorded goodwill might be impaired and required the Company to complete the second step of the impairment test. Based on the results of the impairment test, the Company recorded a non cash goodwill impairment charge of $44.3 million, representing the entire balance of the Companys recorded goodwill at January 1, 2002. 41 Valuation and impairment of securities. In accordance with SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, the Company evaluates its investments in debt and equity securities whenever events or conditions occur to indicate that the fair value of such investments has declined below their carrying amounts. If the decline in fair value is judged to be other than temporary, the carrying amount of the security is written down to fair value. In response to certain events previously described in this MD&A, the Company undertook assessments in the fourth quarter of 2001 and the first quarter of 2002 of its investment in SMC with the assistance of an external valuation specialist. Those assessments indicated that it was unlikely that the Company would recover its then existing carrying amount of the SMC securities in accordance with the securities contractual terms and that an other than temporary decline in the fair value of its investment had occurred. Accordingly, the Company recorded impairment charges of $61.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2001 and $27.5 million in the first quarter of 2002. The SMC convertible preferred securities held by the Company are not publicly traded and, accordingly, quoted market prices are unavailable. The estimate of fair value requires significant judgment and considered a number of factors including, but not limited to, the financial health and prospects of the issuer and market yields of comparable securities. The ultimate amount, if any, which the Company may ultimately realize from its investment in the SMC securities is unknown due to the uncertainties associated with its bankruptcy proceedings; however, the Company believes it is unlikely that it will recover any amount from this investment. Deferred income tax valuation allowances. Under SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, and related guidance, the Company is required to record a valuation allowance if realization of deferred tax assets is not "more likely than not." Substantial weight must be given to recent historical results and near term projections and management must assess the availability of tax planning strategies that might impact either the need for, or amount of, any valuation allowance. As more fully discussed in "Results of Operations Income taxes," based on the Companys recent history of losses, its near term outlook and managements evaluation of available tax planning strategies, in the fourth quarter of 2001 the Company concluded that realization of its previously recorded U.S. deferred tax assets did not continue to meet the "more likely than not" recognition criteria. Accordingly, during 2001 the Company increased its deferred tax valuation allowance by $35.5 million to offset deferred tax benefits related to net U.S. deferred tax assets, primarily net operating loss and minimum tax credit carryforwards, and determined that it would not recognize deferred tax benefits related to future U.S. losses continuing for an uncertain period of time. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company determined that it would not recognize a deferred tax asset related to its U.K. net deferred tax assets because it did not meet the "more likely than not" recognition criteria. Accordingly, the Company recorded a deferred tax asset valuation allowance of $7.2 million through other comprehensive loss in the fourth quarter of 2002 to offset the related U.K. deferred tax asset that arose due to an increase in U.K. minimum pension liabilities and determined that it would not recognize deferred tax assets related to either future U.K. losses or future increases in U.K. minimum pension liabilities continuing for an uncertain period of time. Regular reviews of the "more likely than not" criteria and availability of tax planning strategies will continue to require significant management judgment. 42 Inventory allowances. The Company values approximately one half of its inventory using the last in, first out ("LIFO") method with the remainder primarily stated using an average cost method. The Company periodically reviews its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory and records any write down equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and its estimated net realizable value based upon assumptions about alternative uses, market conditions and other factors. Pension and OPEB expenses and obligations. The Companys pension and OPEB expenses and obligations are calculated based on several estimates, including discount rates, expected rates of returns on plan assets and expected health care trend rates. The Company reviews these rates annually with the assistance of its actuaries. See further discussion of the factors considered and potential effect of these estimates in "Liquidity and Capital Resources Pension plans" and "Liquidity and Capital Resources Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions." Revenue recognition. Sales revenue is generally recognized when the Company has certified that its product meets the related customer specifications, the product has been shipped, and title and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the customer. Payments received from customers in advance of these criteria being met are recorded as customer advances until earned. The Company believes that its revenue recognition policies are in compliance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements. Other loss contingencies. Accruals for estimated loss contingencies, including, but not limited to, product related liabilities, environmental remediation, and litigation, are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Disclosure is made when there is a reasonable possibility that a loss may have been incurred. Contingent liabilities are often resolved over long time periods. Estimating probable losses often requires analysis of various projections that are dependent upon the future outcome of multiple factors, including costs, the findings of investigations, and actions by the Company and third parties. 43 ITEM 7A: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest rates. The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates related to indebtedness. The Company typically does not enter into interest rate swaps or other types of contracts in order to manage its interest rate market risk. At December 31, 2002 substantially all of the Companys indebtedness was denominated in U.S. dollars, British pounds sterling or euros and bore interest at variable rates, primarily related to spreads over LIBOR. Because the Companys indebtedness reprices with changes in market interest rates, the carrying amount of such debt is believed to approximate fair value. The following table summarizes the Companys indebtedness and related maturities as of December 31, 2002. Contractual maturity date (1) Interest 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 rate (2) (In millions) Variable rate debt: U. S. dollars $ 11.9 $ $ 2.0 $ $ 3.7% British pounds sterling 4.4 5.3% Euros 1.0 3.7% (1) Non U. S. dollar denominated amounts are translated at year end rates of exchange. (2) Weighted average. The Companys indebtedness as of December 31, 2001 is summarized below. Contractual maturity date (1) Interest 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 rate (2) (In millions) Variable rate debt: U. S. dollars $ $ $ 8.1 $ $ 3.0% British pounds sterling 2.6 5.3% Euros 1.7 3.9% (1) Non U. S. dollar denominated amounts are translated at year end rates of exchange. (2) Weighted average. Foreign currency exchange rates. The Company is exposed to market risk arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of its international operations. The Company typically does not enter into currency forward contracts to manage its foreign exchange market risk associated with receivables, payables and indebtedness denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the particular entity. See "Results of Operations European operations" in Item 7 (MD&A) for further discussion. Commodity prices. The Company is exposed to market risk arising from changes in commodity prices as a result of its long term purchase and supply agreements with certain suppliers and customers. These agreements, which offer various fixed or formula determined pricing arrangements, effectively obligate the Company to bear (i) the risk of increased raw material and other costs to the Company which cannot be passed on to the Companys customers through increased titanium product prices (in whole or in part) or (ii) the risk of decreasing raw material costs to the Companys suppliers which are not passed on to the Company in the form of lower raw material prices. 44 Other. The Company holds convertible preferred securities of Special Metals Corporation with a principal amount of $80 million and an estimated fair value of zero. These securities are not publicly traded, and, accordingly, quoted market prices are unavailable. These securities are accounted for at estimated fair value and are considered "available for sale" securities. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources Operating activities" in Item 7 (MD&A) and Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 
 
ITEM 7: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview. The titanium industry derives a substantial portion of its demand from the highly cyclical commercial aerospace industry. The Company estimates that aggregate industry shipment volume for titanium mill products in 2002 was derived from the following markets: 41% from aerospace; 44% from industrial; and 15% from emerging markets. The commercial aerospace sector is the principal driver of titanium consumed in the aerospace markets, accounting for shipments of approximately 14,500 metric tons in 2002, which represent about 80% of mill product aerospace shipments and about 33% of aggregate mill product industry shipments. Mill product shipments to military aerospace markets in 2002 were approximately 3,600 metric tons, which represent about 8% of aggregate mill product shipments. The Companys business is more dependent on commercial aerospace demand than the overall titanium industry, as approximately 59% of its mill product sales volume in 2002 was represented by sales to this sector. The economic slowdown in the United States and other regions of the world in the latter part of 2001 and the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks combined to negatively impact commercial air travel in the United States and abroad throughout 2002. Although airline passenger traffic showed improvement in the months immediately following the terrorist attacks, current data indicates that traffic remains below pre attack levels. As a result, the U.S. airline industry is expected to record a second consecutive year of losses and two major U.S. airlines were forced to seek bankruptcy protection from their creditors. Airlines have announced a number of actions to reduce both costs and capacity including, but not limited to, the early retirement of airplanes, the deferral of scheduled deliveries of new aircraft and allowing purchase options to expire. The Companys order backlog at the end of December 2002 was approximately $165 million, unchanged from the end of September 2002. The Companys order backlog was $225 million at the end of December 2001. Substantially all the 2002 year end backlog is scheduled for shipment during 2003. However, the Companys order backlog may not be a reliable indicator of future business activity. Since September 11, 2001, the Company has received a number of deferrals and cancellations of previously scheduled orders and believes such requests will continue into 2003. The Company expects the current slowdown in the commercial aerospace sector to continue through 2005 before beginning a modest upturn in 2006. See "Outlook" for further discussion of the Companys business expectations for 2003. The table on the following page summarizes certain information regarding the Companys results of operations for the past three years. Average selling prices, as reported by the Company, are a reflection not just of actual selling prices received by the Company, but other related factors such as currency exchange rates and customer and product mix in a given period. Consequently, changes in average selling prices from period to period will be impacted by changes occurring not just in actual prices, but by these other factors as well. In the following discussion, the Company has attempted to adjust for the effects of changes in currency and mix when referring to the percentage change in selling prices from period to period. 20 Year ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 ($ in thousands) Net sales $ 366,501 $ 486,935 $ 426,798 Gross margin (3,123) 39,893 3,881 Operating (loss) income (20,849) 64,480 (41,650) Gross margin percent of net sales 1% 8% 1% Percent change in: Mill product sales volume 27 +7 1 Mill product average selling prices (1) +3 +2 7 Melted product sales volume 46 +27 +39 Melted product average selling prices (1) 1 +8 10 (1) Change expressed in billing currencies and adjusted for product mix. 2002 operations. The Companys sales of mill products in 2002 decreased 23% from $363.3 million in 2001 to $278.2 million in 2002. This decrease was principally due to a 27% decrease in mill product sales volume and changes in customer and product mix. The Companys estimated sales volume to the commercial aerospace sector declined approximately 37% during 2002 compared to 2001. Mill product average selling prices (expressed in U.S. dollars using actual foreign currency exchange rates prevailing during the respective periods) during 2002 increased 4% compared to 2001 selling prices. In billing currencies (which exclude the effects of foreign currency translation), mill product average selling prices increased 3% over 2001 levels. Melted product sales decreased 46% from $64.1 million in 2001 to $34.8 million in 2002 primarily due to a 46% decrease in melted product sales volume and changes in customer and product mix. Melted product average selling prices decreased 1% from 2001 melted product prices. Gross margin (net sales less cost of sales) was negative 1% of sales in 2002, compared to 8% in the prior year. Gross margin in 2002 was most adversely impacted by the decline in production volume and the related impact on manufacturing overhead costs. As the Company reduces production volume in response to reduced requirements, certain manufacturing overhead costs decrease at a slower rate and to a lesser extent than production volume changes, generally resulting in higher costs relative to production levels. Average plant operating rates declined from approximately 75% of capacity in 2001 to approximately 55% in 2002. In addition, the Company recorded certain provisions for excess and slow moving inventories during 2002 that, due to business conditions existing during 2002, including a number of customer order cancellations, were approximately $5.3 million greater than in 2001. The Company also incurred severance costs of approximately $1.7 million related to global manufacturing workforce reductions undertaken throughout 2002. Gross margin during 2001 was adversely impacted by $3.3 million of estimated costs related to the tungsten matter described below and $10.8 million of equipment impairment charges described in "2001 operations." Gross margin during 2001 was also adversely impacted by goodwill amortization of $4.6 million, as effective January 1, 2002 the Company no longer amortized its goodwill on a periodic basis. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 21 In March 2001, the Company was notified by one of its customers that a product the customer manufactured from standard grade titanium produced by the Company contained what has been confirmed to be a tungsten inclusion. The Company believes that the source of this tungsten was contaminated silicon, which is used as an alloying addition to titanium at the melting stage, purchased from an outside vendor in 1998. At the present time, the Company is aware of six standard grade ingots that have been demonstrated to contain tungsten inclusions. Based upon the Companys assessment of possible losses, TIMET recorded an aggregate charge to cost of sales for this matter of $3.3 million during 2001. During 2001, the Company charged $0.3 million against this accrual to write down its remaining on hand inventory and made $0.3 million in settlement payments, resulting in a $2.7 million accrual as of December 31, 2001 for potential future claims. During 2002, the Company made settlement payments aggregating $0.3 million and has also revised its estimate of the most likely amount of loss to be incurred, resulting in a credit of $0.2 million to cost of sales during 2002. As of December 31, 2002, $2.2 million is accrued for pending and potential future claims. This amount represents the Companys best estimate of the most likely amount of loss yet to be incurred. This amount does not represent the maximum possible loss, which is not possible for the Company to estimate at this time, and may be periodically revised in the future as more facts become known. As of December 31, 2002 the Company has received claims aggregating approximately $5 million and has made settlement payments aggregating $0.6 million. Pending claims are being investigated and negotiated. The Company believes that certain claims are without merit or can be settled for less than the amount of the original claim. There is no assurance that all potential claims have yet been submitted to the Company. The Company has filed suit seeking full recovery from its silicon supplier for any liability the Company might incur, although no assurances can be given that the Company will ultimately be able to recover all or any portion of such amounts. The Company has not recorded any recoveries related to this matter as of December 31, 2002. Selling, general, administrative and development expenses decreased 17% in 2002 compared to 2001, principally due to the inclusion of $6.2 million of incentive compensation related to the Boeing settlement in 2001 (discussed in "2001 operations") and lower personnel related costs in 2002, partially offset by higher selling and marketing costs. Equity in earnings (losses) of joint ventures in 2002 decreased 21% from 2001 principally due to a decrease in earnings of VALTIMET, the Companys 44% owned welded tube joint venture. The Company recognized $23.4 million of income for the year ended December 31, 2002 related to the take or pay provisions of the Boeing LTA, as amended. The terms of the amended Boeing LTA allow Boeing to purchase up to 7.5 million pounds of titanium product annually from TIMET through 2007, but limit TIMETs maximum quarterly volume obligation to 3.0 million pounds. The LTA is structured as a take or pay agreement such that, beginning in calendar year 2002, Boeing forfeits $3.80 per pound of its advance payment in the event that its orders for delivery are less than 7.5 million pounds in any given calendar year. The Company recognizes income to the extent Boeings year to date orders for delivery plus TIMETs maximum quarterly volume obligations for the remainder of the year total less than 7.5 million pounds. This income is recognized as other operating income and is not included in sales revenue, sales volume or gross margin. Based on actual purchases of approximately 1.3 million pounds during 2002, the Company recognized other income for 6.2 million pounds that Boeing did not purchase under the LTA during 2002. 22 2001 operations. Sales of mill products in 2001 increased 11% from $326.3 million in 2000 to $363.3 million in 2001. This increase was principally due to a 7% increase in mill product sales volume and changes in customer and product mix. The Companys estimated shipment volume to the commercial aerospace sector increased approximately 14% during 2001 compared to 2000. Mill product average selling prices (expressed in U.S. dollars using actual foreign currency exchange rates prevailing during the respective periods) during 2001 approximated 2000 selling prices. In billing currencies (which exclude the effects of foreign currency translation), mill product average selling prices increased 2% over 2000 levels. Melted product sales increased 35% from $47.4 million in 2000 to $64.1 million in 2001 due to the net effects of a 27% increase in melted product sales volume, an 8% increase in melted product average selling prices and changes in customer and product mix. Gross margin was 8% of sales in 2001, compared to 1% in the prior year, primarily reflecting the net effects of higher selling prices, higher operating rates at certain plants, lower sponge costs and changes in customer and product mix. Gross margin for 2001 was adversely impacted by higher scrap costs, higher energy costs, $10.8 million of equipment impairment charges discussed below and $3.3 million of estimated costs related to the tungsten inclusion matter. In comparison, gross margin in 2000 was adversely impacted by a $3.5 million equipment impairment charge and a $3.3 million charge for anticipated environmental remediation costs. During the second quarter of 2001, the Company determined that an impairment of the carrying amount of certain long lived assets located at its Millbury, Massachusetts facility had occurred, as the assets undiscounted future cash flows could no longer support their carrying amount. This determination was made after the Company completed studies of the potential uses of these assets in the foreseeable future as well as the economic viability of those alternatives. As a result, the Company recorded a $10.8 million pre tax impairment charge to cost of sales in 2001, representing the difference between the assets previous carrying amounts and their estimated fair values, based on a third party appraisal. In April 2001, the Company reached a settlement of the litigation between TIMET and Boeing related to the parties 1997 LTA. Pursuant to the settlement, the Company received a cash payment of $82 million and recorded approximately $73 million (cash settlement less legal fees) as other operating income, with partially offsetting operating expenses of approximately $6.2 million for employee incentive compensation and other costs reported as a component of selling, general, administrative and development expense, resulting in a net pre tax income effect of $66.8 million in 2001. Selling, general, administrative and development expenses increased 18% in 2001 compared to 2000 principally due to the approximate $6.2 million of employee incentive compensation discussed above. Equity in earnings (losses) of joint ventures in 2001 increased by $3.4 million from 2000 principally due to the increase in earnings of VALTIMET, the Companys 44% owned welded tube joint venture. Other operating income (expense), net in 2000 reflected a $2.0 million gain related to the termination of the Companys 1990 agreement to sell titanium sponge to Union Titanium Sponge Corporation, which was offset by a $2.8 million restructuring charge related to the Companys plan to address then current market and operating conditions. 23 Non operating income (expense), net. Year ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 (In thousands) Dividends and interest income $ 118 $ 5,460 $ 6,154 SMC impairment charge (27,500) (61,519) Surety bond guarantee (1,575) Gain on sale of castings joint venture 1,205 Loss on early extinguishment of debt (1,343) Foreign exchange gain (loss) (587) 92 (1,085) Interest expense (3,381) (4,060) (7,704) Other income (expense) (761) 18 (53) $ (33,686) $ (60,009) $ (2,826) Dividends and interest income during 2000 and 2001 consisted principally of dividends on the Companys investment in the $80 million non voting convertible preferred securities of SMC. Because of various factors affecting SMC subsequent to the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the Company undertook an assessment of its investment in the SMC securities in the fourth quarter of 2001 with the assistance of an external valuation specialist. The SMC convertible preferred securities are not publicly traded and, accordingly, quoted market prices are unavailable. As such, the assessment of fair value of these securities required significant judgment and considered a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the financial health and prospects of SMC and market yields of comparable securities. The assessment indicated that it was unlikely the Company would recover its then existing carrying amount, including accrued dividends and interest, of the securities in accordance with the securities contractual terms and that an other than temporary decline in the fair value of its investment had occurred. The Company recorded a $61.5 million pre tax impairment charge in the fourth quarter of 2001 to reduce the carrying amount of this investment, including accrued dividends and interest, to an estimated fair value of $27.5 million. At that time the Company also ceased accruing dividend income on these securities. Subsequently, on March 27, 2002, SMC and its U.S. subsidiaries filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. As a result, the Company undertook a further assessment of its investment in SMC, again with the assistance of the same external valuation specialist, and recorded an additional $27.5 million impairment charge during the first quarter of 2002 for an other than temporary decline in the estimated fair value of its investment in SMC. This charge reduced the Companys carrying amount of its investment in SMC to zero. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 24 TIMET is the primary obligor on two workers compensation bonds issued on behalf of a former subsidiary, Freedom Forge Corporation ("Freedom Forge"), which TIMET sold in 1989. The bonds were provided as part of the conditions imposed on Freedom Forge in order to self insure its workers compensation obligations. Each of the bonds has a maximum obligation of $1.5 million. Freedom Forge filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on July 13, 2001, and discontinued payment on the underlying workers compensation claims in November 2001. During the third quarter of 2002, TIMET received notices that the issuers of the bonds were required to make payments on one of the bonds with respect to certain of these claims and were requesting reimbursement from TIMET. Based upon current loss projections, the Company anticipates claims will be incurred up to the maximum amount payable under the bond and, therefore, recorded $1.6 million for this bond (including $0.1 million in legal fees reimbursable to the issuer of the bond) as other non operating expense in 2002. Through December 31, 2002, TIMET has reimbursed the issuer approximately $0.4 million under this bond. At this time the Company understands that no claims have been paid under the second bond, and no such payments are currently anticipated. Accordingly, no accrual has been recorded for potential claims that could be filed under the second bond. TIMET may revise its estimated liability under these bonds in the future as additional facts become known or claims develop. Interest expense for 2002 decreased 17% compared to 2001, primarily due to lower average outstanding borrowings and lower interest rates during 2002. Interest expense for 2001 decreased over 2000 primarily due to the paydown of the Companys revolving U.S. debt following settlement of the Boeing related litigation. In 2000, the Company sold its 20% interest in a castings joint venture with Wyman Gordon (the 80% owner) to Wyman Gordon for approximately $7 million and recorded a gain on the sale of approximately $1.2 million. The Company also recorded a $1.3 million pre tax loss on the early extinguishment of debt related to deferred financing costs that the Company was required to write off in conjunction with the early termination of a previous bank financing agreement. This amount was previously reflected as an extraordinary item ($0.8 million net of tax); however, based on the Companys adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 145, Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections in 2002, this amount was reassessed, whereby the Company determined this loss did not meet the necessary "unusual and infrequent" criteria to be considered an extraordinary item. Therefore, the Company was required to retroactively reclassify this amount to non operating income (loss). See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income taxes. Based on the Companys recent history of U.S. losses, its near term outlook and managements evaluation of available tax planning strategies, in the fourth quarter of 2001 the Company concluded that realization of its previously recorded U.S. deferred tax assets did not continue to meet the "more likely than not" recognition criteria. Accordingly, during 2001 the Company increased its U.S. deferred tax valuation allowance by $35.5 million to offset deferred tax benefits related to net U.S. deferred tax assets, primarily net operating loss and minimum tax credit carryforwards. Additionally, the Company determined that it would not recognize a deferred tax benefit related to future U.S. losses continuing for an uncertain period of time. The Company increased its U.S. deferred tax valuation allowance by $39.4 million in 2002 based upon additional U.S. losses and increases to the U.S. minimum pension liability. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 25 During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company was required to record a charge to other comprehensive loss to reflect an increase in its U.K. minimum pension liability. The related tax effect of this charge resulted in the Company shifting from a net deferred tax liability position to a net deferred tax asset position. Based on the Companys recent history of U.K. losses, its near term outlook and managements evaluation of available tax planning strategies, the Company determined that it would not recognize this deferred tax asset because it did not meet the "more likely than not" recognition criteria. Accordingly, the Company recorded a U.K. deferred tax asset valuation allowance of $7.2 million through other comprehensive income in the fourth quarter to offset the related U.K. deferred tax asset that arose due to the increase in U.K. minimum pension liabilities. Commencing in the first quarter of 2003 and continuing for an uncertain period of time, the Company will not recognize deferred tax benefits related to either future U.K. losses or future increases in U.K. minimum pension liabilities. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. During the first quarter of 2002, the Job Creation and Worker Assistance Act of 2002 (the "JCWA Act") was signed into law. The Company benefits from certain provisions of the JCWA Act, which liberalized certain net operating loss ("NOL") and alternative minimum tax restrictions. Prior to the law change, NOLs could be carried back two years and forward 20 years. The JCWA Act increases the carryback period for losses generated in 2001 and 2002 to five years with no change to the carryforward period. In addition, losses generated in 2001 and 2002 can be carried back and offset against 100% of a taxpayers alternative minimum taxable income ("AMTI"). Prior to the law change, an NOL could offset no more than 90% of a taxpayers AMTI. The suspension of the 90% limitation is also applicable to NOLs carried forward into 2001 and 2002. Based on these changes, the Company recognized $1.8 million of refundable U.S. income taxes during the first quarter of 2002. The Company received $0.8 million of this refund in the fourth quarter of 2002. Minority interest. Annual dividend expense related to the Companys 6.625% Convertible Preferred Securities generally approximates $13.3 million and is reported as minority interest. In 2000, this expense was reported net of allocable income taxes; however, as a result of the Companys decision to increase its deferred tax valuation allowance as described above, no income tax benefit associated with this expense was recorded and this expense was reported gross in 2002 and 2001. In addition, in 2001 the Company recorded $0.5 million of pre tax dividend expense related to dividends in arrears. In April 2000, the Company exercised its right to defer future dividend payments on these securities. On June 1, 2001, the Company resumed payment of dividends on these securities, made the scheduled payment of $3.3 million and paid the previously deferred aggregate dividends of $13.9 million. In October 2002, the Company again exercised its right to defer future dividend payments on these securities, effective with the Companys December 1, 2002 scheduled dividend payment. Dividends will continue to accrue at the coupon rate on the principal and unpaid dividends and have been classified as long term in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company will consider resuming payment of dividends on the Convertible Preferred Securities once the outlook for the Companys business improves substantially. Other minority interest relates primarily to the 30% interest in TIMET Savoie held by CEZUS. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 26 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle. On January 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Under SFAS No. 142, goodwill is no longer amortized on a periodic basis, but instead is subject to a two step impairment test to be performed on at least an annual basis. In order to test for transitional impairment, SFAS No. 142 required the Company to identify its reporting units and determine the carrying amount of each reporting unit by assigning its assets and liabilities, including existing goodwill and intangible assets, to those reporting units as of January 1, 2002. The Company determined that it operates one reporting unit, as that term is defined by SFAS No. 142, consisting of the Company in total. The first step of the impairment test required the Company to determine the fair value of its reporting unit and compare it to that reporting units carrying amount. This evaluation was completed with the assistance of an external valuation specialist and considered a combination of fair value indicators including quoted market prices, prices of comparable businesses and discounted cash flows. The evaluation, which was completed during the second quarter of 2002, indicated that the Companys recorded goodwill might be impaired and required the Company to complete the second step of the impairment test. The second step of the impairment test, which was completed during the third quarter of 2002, required the Company to compare the implied fair value of its reporting units goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. With the assistance of the external valuation specialist utilized in the step one testing, the Company determined the implied fair value of its goodwill was zero. Accordingly, the Company recorded a non cash goodwill impairment charge of $44.3 million, representing the entire balance of the Companys recorded goodwill at January 1, 2002. There was no income tax benefit associated with this charge. While the goodwill associated with the Companys U.S. operations is deductible for income tax purposes, the Company does not currently recognize an income tax benefit associated with its U.S. losses. In addition the goodwill associated with the Companys European operations is not deductible for income tax purposes. Pursuant to the transition requirements of SFAS No. 142, this charge has been reported in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle as of January 1, 2002. The effect of the change in accounting principle on the first quarter of 2002 was to increase the Companys first quarter net loss by $44.3 million, or $14.04 per share, to $80.4 million, or $25.47 per share. The change had no effect on the second, third or fourth quarters of 2002. European operations. The Company has substantial operations and assets located in Europe, principally the United Kingdom, with smaller operations in France and Italy. Titanium is sold worldwide, and many factors influencing the Companys U.S. and European operations are similar. Approximately 44% of the Companys sales revenue originated in Europe in 2002, of which approximately 60% was denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, principally the British pound sterling and the euro. Certain purchases of raw materials, principally titanium sponge and alloys, for the Companys European operations are denominated in U.S. dollars, while labor and other production costs are primarily denominated in local currencies. The functional currencies of the Companys European subsidiaries are those of their respective countries; thus, the U.S. dollar value of these subsidiaries sales and costs that are denominated in currencies other than their functional currency, including sales and costs denominated in U.S. dollars, are subject to exchange rate fluctuations which may impact reported earnings and may affect the comparability of period to period operating results. Borrowings of the Companys European operations may be in U.S. dollars or in functional currencies. The Companys export sales from the U.S. are denominated in U.S. dollars and as such are not subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations. 27 The Company does not use currency contracts to hedge its currency exposures. Net currency transaction gains/losses included in earnings were a loss of $0.6 million in 2002, a gain of $0.1 million in 2001 and a loss of $1.1 million in 2000. At December 31, 2002, consolidated assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currencies were approximately $29.8 million and $36.6 million, respectively, consisting primarily of U.S. dollar cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable and borrowings. Related party transactions. The Company is a party to certain transactions with related parties. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Supplemental information. In July 2002, the Company successfully negotiated new three year labor agreements with its labor unions at its Toronto, Ohio facility. The Companys European operations require annual labor union negotiations, at which all contracts were successfully extended during 2002, and such negotiations are currently under way for 2003. On February 4, 2003, the Companys stockholders approved a proposal to amend TIMETs Certificate of Incorporation to effect a reverse stock split of the Companys common stock at a ratio of one share of post split common stock for each eight, nine or ten shares of pre split common stock issued and outstanding, with the final exchange ratio to be selected by the Board of Directors. Subsequently, the Companys Board of Directors unanimously approved the reverse stock split on the basis of one share of post split common stock for each outstanding ten shares of pre split common stock. The reverse stock split became effective after the close of trading on February 14, 2003. All share and per share disclosures for all periods presented in MD&A have been adjusted to give effect to the reverse stock split. Outlook. The Outlook section contains a number of forward looking statements, all of which are based on current expectations, and exclude the effect of potential future charges related to restructurings, asset impairments, valuation allowances and similar items. Undue reliance should not be placed on forward looking statements, as more fully discussed in the "Forward Looking Information" statement of this Annual Report. Actual results may differ materially. See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements regarding commitments, contingencies, legal, environmental and other matters, which may materially affect the Companys future business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. As previously discussed, the economic slowdown in the United States and other regions of the world in the latter part of 2001 in combination with the effects of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks negatively impacted commercial air travel in the United States and abroad throughout 2002. Although general economic conditions have improved relative to 2001 levels, current data indicates that commercial airline passenger traffic remains below pre attack levels, and the Company expects the current slowdown in the commercial aerospace sector to continue through 2005 before beginning a modest upturn in 2006. In addition, the continuing war on terrorism and potential global conflicts could damage an already fragile economy, delay the recovery in airline passenger traffic and exacerbate the current downturn in the commercial aerospace industry. As a result, demand for titanium in the commercial aerospace market remains soft. 28 In response, airlines have announced a number of actions to reduce both costs and capacity including, but not limited to, the early retirement of airplanes, the deferral of scheduled deliveries of new aircraft and allowing purchase options to expire. The major commercial airframe and jet engine manufacturers have substantially reduced their production levels in 2003, and the forecast of engine and aircraft deliveries over the next few years is expected to remain at these reduced levels. The Company expects that aggregate industry mill product shipments will decrease in 2003 by approximately 3% to about 42,500 metric tons. The Company believes that demand for mill products for the commercial aerospace sector could decline by up to 15% in 2003, primarily due to a combination of reduced aircraft production rates and excess inventory accumulated throughout the aerospace supply chain since September 11, 2001. Excess inventory accumulation typically leads to order demand for titanium products falling below actual consumption. According to The Airline Monitor, a leading aerospace publication, the worldwide commercial airline industry reported an estimated operating loss of approximately $8 billion in 2002, compared with an operating loss of $11 billion in 2001 and operating income of $11 billion in 2000. The Airline Monitor traditionally issues forecasts for commercial aircraft deliveries each January and July. According to The Airline Monitor, large commercial aircraft deliveries for the 1996 to 2002 period peaked in 1999 with 889 aircraft, including 254 wide body aircraft that use substantially more titanium than their narrow body counterparts. Large commercial aircraft deliveries totaled 673 (including 176 wide bodies) in 2002. The Airline Monitors most recently issued forecast of January 2003 calls for 580 deliveries in 2003, 570 deliveries in 2004 and 560 deliveries in 2005. Relative to 2002, these forecasted delivery rates represent anticipated declines of about 14% in 2003, 15% in 2004 and 17% in 2005. After 2005, The Airline Monitor calls for a continued increase each year in large commercial aircraft deliveries through 2010, with forecasted deliveries of 780 aircraft in 2009 exceeding 2002 levels. Deliveries of titanium generally precede aircraft deliveries by about one year, although this varies considerably by titanium product. This correlates to the Companys cycle, which historically precedes the cycle of the aircraft industry and related deliveries. The Company can give no assurance as to the extent or duration of the current commercial aerospace cycle or the extent to which it will affect demand for the Companys products. Although the current business environment makes it particularly difficult to predict TIMETs future performance, the Company believes sales revenue in 2003 will remain flat compared to 2002 at approximately $360 million to $370 million, reflecting the combined effects of increases in sales volume offset by continued softening of market selling prices and changes in customer and product mix. Mill product sales volume is expected to increase approximately 5% from 2002 levels to about 9,300 metric tons and melted product sales volume is expected to increase approximately 40% relative to 2002, to approximately 3,300 metric tons. The Company expects approximately 55% of its 2003 mill product sales volume will be derived from the commercial aerospace sector (as compared to 59% in 2002), with the balance from military aerospace, industrial and emerging markets. The overall mill product sales volume increase in 2003 is principally driven by an anticipated increase in the Companys military aerospace, military armor and industrial sales volume compared to 2002, partially offset by sales volume declines in commercial aerospace and various emerging markets. 29 Market selling prices on new orders for titanium products, while difficult to forecast, are expected to continue to soften throughout 2003. However, about one half of the Companys anticipated commercial aerospace volume in 2003 is under LTAs that provide the Company with selling price stability on that portion of its business. The Company may sell substantially similar titanium products to different customers at varying selling prices due to the effect of LTAs, timing of purchase orders and market fluctuations. There are also wide differences in selling prices across different titanium products that the Company offers. Accordingly, the mix of customers and products sold affects the average selling price realized and has an important impact on sales revenue and gross margin. Average selling prices, as reported by the Company, are a reflection not just of actual selling prices received by the Company, but other related factors such as currency exchange rates and customer and product mix in a given period. Consequently, changes in average selling prices from period to period will be impacted by changes occurring not just in actual prices, but in these other factors as well. The Companys cost of sales is affected by a number of factors including, among others, customer and product mix, material yields, plant operating rates, raw material costs, labor and energy costs. Raw material costs represent the largest portion of the Companys manufacturing cost structure. The Company expects to manufacture a significant portion of its titanium sponge requirements in 2003 and purchase the balance. The Company expects the aggregate cost of purchased sponge and scrap to remain relatively stable in 2003 as compared to 2002. The Company expects its overall capacity utilization to average about 50% in 2003, down from 55% in 2002; however, the Companys practical capacity utilization measures can vary significantly based on product mix. As the Company reduces production volume in response to reduced requirements, certain manufacturing overhead costs decrease at a slower rate and to a lesser extent than production volume changes, generally resulting in higher costs relative to production levels. During 2002 the Company undertook a number of actions to reduce its costs, including reductions in employment levels, more stringent spending controls and programs to improve manufacturing yields. However, the continued softening of market selling prices is expected to substantially offset the benefits of these actions, resulting in an expected gross margin in 2003 of between negative 2% and break even. The Company expects gross margin to improve during the year as production volumes begin to increase somewhat. Selling, general, administrative and development expenses for 2003 should approximate $40 million. Interest expense in 2003 should approximate $3 million. Minority interest on the Companys Convertible Preferred Securities in 2003 should approximate $14 million, including additional dividend costs related to the deferral of the related dividend payments. The Company anticipates that Boeing will purchase about 0.8 million pounds of product in 2003. At this projected order level, the Company expects to recognize about $25 million of income under the Boeing LTAs take or pay provisions in 2003. Any such earnings will be reported as operating income, but will not be included in sales revenue, sales volume or gross margin. 30 The Companys effective consolidated income tax rate is expected to be significantly below the U.S. statutory rate, as no income tax benefit is expected to be recorded on U.S. or U.K. losses during 2003. During the fourth quarter of 2002, TIMET UK began to generate net deferred tax assets, and the Company determined that future realization of its UK deferred tax assets did not meet the "more likely than not" recognition criteria. Therefore, no income tax benefit is expected to be recorded on UK losses during 2003. The Company operates in several tax jurisdictions and is subject to varying income tax rates. As a result, the geographic mix of pre tax income (loss) can significantly impact the Companys overall effective tax rate. The Company presently expects an operating loss in 2003 of $15 million to $25 million and a net loss of $35 million to $45 million, before any potential restructuring or other special charges or changes in accounting principle. The Company presently anticipates its results in the last half of 2003 will be improved compared to the first half due to the improvement in gross margins and because the estimated $25 million expected to be earned under the take or pay provision of the Boeing LTA will be recognized in the last half of the year. The Company expects to generate $20 million to $30 million in cash flow from operations during 2003. This is principally driven by reductions in working capital, especially inventory, and the deferral of the dividends on the Convertible Preferred Securities. The Company received the 2003 advance of $27.7 million ($28.5 million less $0.8 million for 2002 subcontractor purchases) from Boeing in early January 2003. Capital expenditures in 2003 should approximate $10 million, principally covering capital maintenance, safety and environmental programs. Depreciation and amortization should approximate $36 million. Bank debt is expected to decrease in 2003 as compared to year end 2002 levels. At December 31, 2002, the Company had over $130 million of borrowing availability under its various worldwide credit agreements. The Company believes its cash, cash flow from operations and borrowing availability will satisfy its expected working capital, capital expenditures and other requirements in 2003. The Company is not satisfied with the projected results for 2003 and has undertaken further cost reduction measures. The Company is redoubling its efforts to achieve aggressive spending reductions, supplier price concessions and manufacturing process improvements, and additional salaried headcount reductions are expected. On a longer term basis, the Company is continuing to evaluate product line and facilities consolidations that may permit it to meaningfully reduce its cost structure in the future while maintaining and even increasing its market share. Accordingly, the Companys results in 2003 could include one or more charges for restructurings, asset impairments or similar charges that might be material. Likewise, to the extent that cost reductions meet or exceed target goals, results may be somewhat better than currently forecast. In 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations. Under SFAS No. 143, the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation covered under the scope of SFAS No. 143 is recognized in the period in which the liability is incurred, with an offsetting increase in the carrying amount of the related long lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted to its present value, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. Upon settlement of the liability, an entity either settles the obligation for its recorded amount or incurs a gain or loss upon settlement. The Company expects to recognize a cummulative effect loss of approximately $0.2 million and an asset retirement obligation of approximately $0.4 million upon adoption of SFAS No. 143 on January 1, 2003. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 31 In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others. The Company has adopted the disclosure requirements of the Interpretation as of December 31, 2002. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements related to discussion of the Companys workers compensation surety bond guarantees. The Company will adopt the recognition and initial measurement provisions of this Interpretation on a prospective basis for any guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities. Except for TIMET Capital Trust I (discussed in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), the Company does not believe it has any variable interest entity covered by the scope of FASB Interpretation No. 46. The Company has consolidated TIMET Capital Trust I since its formation, as the Company owns 100% of the trusts outstanding voting securities. The Company will adopt this Interpretation no later than the quarter ended September 30, 2003. The adoption of this Interpretation is not expected to have a material effect on the Company. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The Companys consolidated cash flows provided by operating, investing and financing activities for each of the past three years are presented below. The following should be read in conjunction with the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto. Year ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 (In thousands) Cash provided (used) by: Operating activities: Excluding changes in assets and liabilities $ (4,100) $ 97,908 $ (7,851) Changes in assets and liabilities (9,495) (35,334) 73,313 (13,595) 62,574 65,462 Investing activities (7,467) (16,093) (4,218) Financing activities 3,523 (31,358) (72,812) Net cash (used) provided by operating, investing and financing activities $ (17,539) $ 15,123 $ (11,568) Operating activities. Cash (used) provided by operating activities, excluding changes in assets and liabilities, during the past three years generally follows the trend in operating results. Changes in assets and liabilities reflect the timing of purchases, production and sales, and can vary significantly from period to period. Accounts receivable decreased during 2002 primarily as a result of reduced sales, partially offset by an increase in days sales outstanding as certain customers extended their payment terms to the Company. Accounts receivable increased in 2001, principally as a result of increased sales. Accounts receivable decreased during 2000, reflecting the decrease in sales levels as well as an improvement in collections as reflected by a decrease in the average number of days that receivables were outstanding. The significant reduction in receivables in 2000 was also attributable to $16 million of customer payments received in the first quarter of 2000 related to a bill and hold arrangement entered into near the end of 1999. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 32 Inventories decreased during 2002 primarily as a result of reduced production in the fourth quarter of 2002 and an increase in the Companys reserves for excess inventories, which the Company recorded in response to decreased demand for its products and other changes in business conditions. Inventories increased in 2001, reflecting material purchases and production rates that were based on expected sales levels higher than actual sales levels achieved. Due to the impact of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, a number of customer order deferrals and cancellations were received late in 2001, contributing to the inventory increase. The Company reduced inventories during 2000 as excess raw materials and other inventory items were consumed and inventory reduction and control efforts were put in place. In April 2001, the Company reached a settlement of the litigation between TIMET and Boeing. Pursuant to the settlement, the Company received a cash payment of $82 million ($73 million net of legal fees) and in December 2001 received a $28.5 million customer advance from Boeing related to fiscal 2002 purchases. This advance was reduced to $0.8 million at the end of 2002 as a result of shipments and orders from Boeing as well as the recognition of take or pay income. Through 2007 the Company will receive a similar annual advance in January of the year to which the advance is related. See Notes 10 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Net accounts with related parties decreased during 2002 primarily as a result of cash received from Tremont related to an intercorporate services agreement and from a reduction in sales to VALTIMET. Changes in net accounts with related parties during 2001 and 2000 resulted primarily from relative changes in receivable levels with joint ventures. Prepaid expenses and other current assets decreased during 2002 due to the receipt of raw materials for which the Company had made advance payments during 2001 and the ongoing usage of other prepaid assets. Dividends for the period October 1998 through December 1999 on the Companys investment in SMC 6.625% convertible preferred securities were deferred by SMC. In April 2000, SMC resumed current dividend payments of $1.3 million each quarter; however, dividends and interest in arrears were not paid. On October 11, 2001, the Company was notified by SMC of SMCs intention to again defer the payment of dividends effective with the dividend due on October 28, 2001. The SMC convertible preferred securities held by TIMET are not publicly traded and, accordingly, quoted market prices are unavailable. As more fully discussed in "Results of Operations Non operating income (expense), net", the Company recorded a pre tax impairment charge of $61.5 million related to these securities, including accrued dividends and interest, in the fourth quarter of 2001 and ceased accruing dividend income on these securities at that time. Additionally, the Company recorded a charge of $27.5 million related to these securities in the first quarter of 2002 that reduced the carrying amount of these securities to zero. The ultimate amount, if any, which the Company may realize from its investment in the SMC securities is unknown due to the uncertainties associated with SMCs bankruptcy proceedings; however, the Company believes it is unlikely that it will recover any amount from this investment. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Deferred income tax benefits in 2002 primarily reflect benefits recognized related to European losses, as the Company did not record any benefits related to its U.S. losses. Beginning in 2003, the Company will also not record any benefits related to its U.K. losses. Deferred income taxes in 2001 were primarily due to an increase in the Companys deferred tax asset valuation allowance to offset previously recorded tax benefits which did not meet the "more likely than not" recognition criteria. Deferred income taxes in 2000 primarily reflect net tax refunds of $8 million. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 33 As more fully discussed in "Results of Operations Minority interest," in October 2002 the Company exercised its right to defer future dividend payments on its Convertible Preferred Securities, although dividends will continue to accrue at the coupon rate on the principal and unpaid dividends. This deferral was effective beginning with the Companys December 1, 2002 scheduled dividend payment. The Company will consider resuming payment of dividends on the Convertible Preferred Securities once the outlook for the Companys business improves substantially. Since the Company exercised its right to defer dividend payments, it is unable under the terms of these securities to, among other things, pay dividends on or reacquire its capital stock during the deferral period. However, the Company is permitted to reacquire the Convertible Preferred Securities during the deferral period, subject to certain U.S. credit facility limitations. In April 2000, the Company similarly exercised its right to defer future dividend payments on its Convertible Preferred Securities. In the second quarter of 2001, a portion of the Boeing settlement, described above, was used to pay the previously deferred aggregate dividends of $13.9 million and resume the payment of the regularly scheduled dividends. Changes in accrued dividends on Convertible Preferred Securities reflect this activity. Investing activities. The Companys capital expenditures were $7.8 million in 2002, $16.1 million in 2001 and $11.2 million in 2000. Capital spending for 2002 and 2001 was principally for safety and maintaining capacity. Capital spending for 2000 was principally for capacity enhancements, capital maintenance, and safety and environmental projects. Proceeds of $7.0 million from the sale of the Companys castings joint venture in 2000 represent the proceeds from the Companys sale to Wyman Gordon of the Companys 20% interest in Wyman Gordon Titanium Castings, LLC. This transaction is more fully described in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Financing activities. Net borrowings of $6.3 million during 2002 are primarily attributable to increases in working capital (exclusive of cash). TIMET Savoie made a $1.1 million dividend payment to CEZUS in the second quarter of 2002. The Company incurred approximately $1.1 million in financing costs in conjunction with the Companys amendment of its U.S. revolving credit agreement in 2002. These costs are deferred and amortized over the life of the agreement, which matures in February 2006. See further discussion in "Borrowing arrangements." Net repayments of $32 million in 2001 are principally the result of the Companys litigation settlement with Boeing. Net repayments of $70 million in 2000 reflect reductions of outstanding borrowings principally in the U.S. resulting from collection of receivables, reduction in inventories, tax refunds, proceeds from the sale of the Companys casting joint venture and deferral of dividend payments on the Companys Convertible Preferred Securities. In addition, the Company incurred approximately $2.1 million in financing costs in 2000 in conjunction with the Companys completion of a new U.S. revolving credit agreement. Borrowing arrangements. At December 31, 2002, the Companys net debt (cash and cash equivalents less indebtedness, excluding capital lease obligations, Convertible Preferred Securities and accrued dividends thereon) was approximately $13.2 million, consisting of $6.2 million of cash and equivalents and $19.4 million of debt (principally borrowings under the Companys U.S. and U.K. credit agreements). This compares to a net cash position of approximately $12.1 million as of December 31, 2001. During January 2003, the Company received approximately $27.7 million from Boeing under the terms of the parties amended LTA, which was used to reduce outstanding borrowings under the Companys U.S. credit agreement. 34 On October 23, 2002, the Company amended its existing U.S. asset based revolving credit agreement, extending the maturity date to February 2006. Under the terms of the amendment, borrowings are limited to the lesser of $105 million or a formula determined borrowing base derived from the value of accounts receivable, inventory and equipment ("borrowing availability"). This facility requires the Companys U.S. daily cash receipts to be used to reduce outstanding borrowings, which may then be reborrowed, subject to the terms of the agreement. Interest generally accrues at rates that vary from LIBOR plus 2% to LIBOR plus 2.5%. Borrowings are collateralized by substantially all of the Companys U.S. assets. The credit agreement prohibits the payment of dividends on TIMETs Convertible Preferred Securities if "excess availability," as defined, is less than $25 million, limits additional indebtedness, prohibits the payment of dividends on the Companys common stock if excess availability is less than $40 million, requires compliance with certain financial covenants and contains other covenants customary in lending transactions of this type. The Company was in compliance in all material respects with all covenants for all periods during the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001. Excess availability is essentially unused borrowing availability and is defined as borrowing availability less outstanding borrowings and certain contractual commitments such as letters of credit. As of December 31, 2002, excess availability was approximately $85 million. The weighted average interest rate on borrowings outstanding under these credit agreements was 3.7% and 5.3% as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The Companys U.S. credit agreement allows the lender to modify the borrowing base formulas at its discretion, subject to certain conditions. During the second quarter of 2002, the Companys lender elected to exercise such discretion and modified the Companys borrowing base formulas, which reduced the amount that the Company could have borrowed against its inventory and equipment by approximately $7 million. In the event the lender exercises such discretion in the future, such event could have a material adverse impact on the Companys liquidity. Borrowings outstanding under this U.S. facility are classified as a current liability. The Companys subsidiary, TIMET UK, has a credit agreement that provides for borrowings limited to the lesser of (pound)22.5 million or a formula determined borrowing base derived from the value of accounts receivable, inventory and equipment ("borrowing availability"). The credit agreement includes a revolving and term loan facility and an overdraft facility (the "U.K. facilities"). On December 20, 2002, the Company renewed and amended its existing U.K. facilities, extending the maturity date to December 20, 2005 and reducing the maximum borrowing base from (pound)30.0 million to (pound)22.5 million to more appropriately match TIMET UKs collateral base. Borrowings under the U.K. facilities can be in various currencies including U.S. dollars, British pounds sterling and euros; accrue interest at rates that vary from LIBOR plus 1% to LIBOR plus 1.25%; and are collateralized by substantially all of TIMET UKs assets. The U.K. facilities require the maintenance of certain financial ratios and amounts and other covenants customary in lending transactions of this type. TIMET UK was in compliance in all material respects with all covenants for all periods during the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001. The U.K. overdraft facility is subject to annual review in December of each year. In the event the overdraft facility is not renewed, the Company believes it could refinance any outstanding overdraft borrowings under either the revolving or term loan features of the U.K. facilities. Unused borrowing availability as of December 31, 2002 under the U.K. facilities was approximately $30 million. The weighted average interest rate on borrowings outstanding under these credit agreements was 4.6% and 3.6% as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. 35 The Company also has overdraft and other credit facilities at certain of its other European subsidiaries. These facilities accrue interest at various rates and are payable on demand. Unused borrowing availability as of December 31, 2002 under these facilities was approximately $16 million. The weighted average interest rate on borrowings outstanding under these credit agreements was 3.7% and 3.6% as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Although excess availability under TIMETs U.S. credit agreement remains above $40 million, no dividends were paid by TIMET on its common shares during 2002, 2001 or 2000. TIMET does not anticipate paying dividends on its common shares during 2003 and, as previously discussed, is not permitted to pay such dividends while deferring dividend payments on its Convertible Preferred Securities. Contractual commitments. As more fully described in Notes 11, 12, 18 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company is a party to various debt, lease and other agreements at December 31, 2002 that contractually and unconditionally commit the Company to pay certain amounts in the future. The following table summarizes such contractual commitments that are unconditional both in terms of timing and amount by the type and date of payment. Unconditional Payment Due Date 2004/ 2006/ 2008 & 2003 2005 2007 After Total Contractual Commitment (In thousands) Indebtedness $ 12,994 $ 6,401 $ $ $ 19,395 Capital leases 642 885 411 8,279 10,217 Operating leases 3,384 2,336 947 339 7,006 Obligations to Basic Management, Inc. 1,324 1,922 1,063 1,107 5,416 Minimum sponge purchase commitments (1) 9,975 19,950 19,950 49,875 Company obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trust holding solely subordinated debt securities ("BUCS") 201,241 201,241 Accrued dividends on BUCS (2) 4,462 4,462 $ 28,319 $ 31,494 $ 22,371 $ 215,428 $ 297,612 (1) Commitments based on an assumed constant mix of products purchased. (2) Represents total dividends accrued on the BUCS at December 31, 2002, including dividends due on December 1, 2002 and deferred as of that date. Based on the deferral, the deferred dividends are not contractually due until March 1, 2008. 36 Defined benefit pension plans. The Company maintains two defined benefit pension plans in the U.S., one in the U.K. and one in France. The majority of the discussion below relates to the U.S. and U.K. plans, as the French plan is not material to the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets, Statements of Operations or Cash Flows. The Company recorded consolidated pension expense of $4.9 million, $1.5 million and $1.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Pension expense for these periods was calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, most significant of which are the discount rate and the expected long term rate of return on plan assets. The discount rate the Company utilizes for determining pension expense and pension obligations is based on a review of long term bonds (10 to 15 year maturities) that receive one of the two highest ratings given by recognized rating agencies (generally Merrill Lynch, Moodys, Solomon Smith Barney and UBS Warburg) as well as composite indices provided by the Companys actuaries. Changes in the Companys discount rate over the past three years reflect the decline in such bond rates during that time period. The Company establishes a rate that is used to determine obligations as of the year end date and expense for the subsequent year. The Company used the following discount rates for its pension plans: Discount rates used for: Obligation at Obligation at Obligation at December 31,2002 December 31,2001 December 31, 2000 and expense in 2003 and expense in 2002 and expense in 2001 U.S. Plans 6.25% 7.00% 7.25% U.K. Plan 5.70% 6.00% 6.00% In developing the Companys expected long term rate of return assumption, the Company evaluated historical market rates of return and input from its actuaries, including a review of asset class return expectations as well as long term inflation assumptions. Projected returns are based on broad equity (large cap, small cap and international) and bond (corporate and government) indices as well as an anticipation that the plans active investment managers will generate premiums above the standard market projections. The Companys assumed rate of return for 2002 was 9.00% for its U.S. plans and 7.50% for its U.K. plan based upon these projections. Lowering the expected long term rate of return on the Companys U.S. plans assets by 0.25% (from 9.00% to 8.75%) would have increased 2002 pension expense by approximately $0.1 million, and lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 7.00% to 6.75%) would have increased the Companys U.S. plans 2002 pension expense by approximately $0.1 million. Lowering the expected long term rate of return on the Companys U.K. plans assets by 0.25% (from 7.50% to 7.25%) would have increased 2002 pension expense by approximately $0.2 million, and lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% would have increased the Companys U.K. plans 2002 pension expense by approximately $0.5 million. 37 Based on continued market declines and losses on the plan assets during 2002, as well as future projected asset mix, the Company reduced its assumed long term rate of return for 2003 to 8.50% for its U.S. plans and 6.70% for its U.K. plan. The Companys future expected long term rate of return on plan assets for its U.S. and U.K. plans is based on an asset allocation assumption of 50% equity securities and 50% fixed income securities. Because of market fluctuations and prior funding strategies, actual asset allocation as of December 31, 2002 was 61% equity securities and 39% fixed income securities for the U.S. plans and 90% equity securities and 10% fixed income securities for the U.K. plan. The Company believes, however, that the plans future long term asset allocation on average will approximate the assumed 50/50 allocation. Although the expected rate of return is a long term measure, the Company will continue to evaluate its expected rate of return, at least annually, and will adjust it as considered necessary. Among other things, the Company bases its determination of pension expense for all plans on the fair value of plan assets. The expected return on the fair value of the plan assets, determined based on the expected long term rate of return, is a component of pension expense. This methodology further recognizes actual investment gains or losses (i.e. the difference between the expected and actual returns based on the market value of assets) in pension expense through amortization in future periods based upon the expected average remaining service life of the plan participants. Based on an expected rate of return on plan assets of 8.50%, a discount rate of 6.25% and various other assumptions, the Company estimates that pension expense for its U.S. plans will approximate $3.2 million in 2003, $2.6 million in 2004 and $2.0 million in 2005. A 0.25% increase (decrease) in the discount rate would decrease (increase) projected pension expense by approximately $0.1 million in 2003, 2004 and 2005. A 0.25% increase (decrease) in the long term rate of return would similarly decrease (increase) projected pension expense by approximately $0.1 million in 2003 and 2004 and by $0.2 million in 2005. Based on an expected rate of return on plan assets of 6.70%, a discount rate of 5.70% and various other assumptions (including an exchange rate of $1.55/(pound)1.00), the Company estimates that pension expense for its U.K. plan will approximate $6.5 million in 2003, $6.1 million in 2004 and $5.6 million in 2005. A 0.25% increase (decrease) in the discount rate would decrease (increase) projected pension expense by approximately $0.5 million in 2003 and in 2004 and $0.6 million in 2005. A 0.25% increase (decrease) in the long term rate of return would decrease (increase) projected pension expense by approximately $0.2 million in 2003 and 2004 and $0.3 million in 2005. Actual future pension expense will depend on future actual investment performance, changes in future discount rates and various other factors related to the populations participating in the Companys pension plans. The Company made cash contributions of approximately $1.2 million in 2002 and $2.7 million in 2001 to the U.S. plans and cash contributions of approximately $6.1 million in 2002 and $3.6 million in 2001 to the U.K. plan. Based upon the current underfunded status of the plans and the actuarial assumptions being used for 2003, the Company believes that it will be required to make cash contributions of approximately $3.8 million in 2003, $7.0 million in 2004 and $4.4 million in 2005 to the U.S. plans and approximately $6.5 million in 2003, $6.7 million in 2004 and $6.8 million in 2005 to the U.K. plan. Certain employee contributions are also required by the U.K. plan. 38 The value of the plans assets has decreased the past three years based mainly on poor performance from equity securities. The U.S. plans assets were $48.2 million, $56.5 million and $57.2 million at December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and the U.K. plans assets were $69.8 million, $79.0 million and $92.2 million at December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The combination of negative actual investment returns and declining discount rates have increased the Companys underfunded plan status (plan assets compared to accumulated benefit obligations) from $7.7 million at December 31, 2001 to $21.1 million at December 31, 2002 for the U.S. plans and from $12.2 million at December 31, 2001 to $40.0 million at December 31, 2002 for the U.K. plan. Because of this underfunded status, the Company was required to record an additional minimum pension liability charge to equity of $13 million related to the U.S. plans and $28 million (net of $1.6 million in taxes) related to the U.K. plan in 2002. Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions. The Company provides certain postretirement healthcare and life insurance ("OPEB") benefits to the majority of its U.S. employees upon retirement. The Company funds such OPEB benefits as they are incurred, net of any retiree contributions. The Company paid OPEB benefits, net of retiree contributions, in the amount of $4.6 million and $4.0 million during 2002 and 2001, respectively. The Company recorded consolidated OPEB expense of $2.9 million, $1.8 million and $1.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. OPEB expense for these periods was calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, most significant of which are the discount rate and the expected long term health care trend rate. The discount rate the Company utilizes for determining OPEB expense and OPEB obligations is the same as that used for the Companys U.S. pension plans. Lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 7.00% to 6.75%) would have increased the Companys 2002 OPEB expense by less than $0.1 million. The Company estimates the expected long term health care trend rate based upon input from specialists in this area, as provided by the Companys actuaries. In estimating the health care trend rate, the Company considers industry trends, the Companys actual healthcare cost experience and the Companys future benefit structure. For 2002, the Company used a beginning health care trend rate of 11.15%, which is projected to reduce to an ultimate rate of 5.00% in 2010. If the health care trend rate changed by 1.00% for each year, OPEB expense would have increased/decreased by approximately $0.3 million in 2002. For 2003, the Company is using a beginning health care trend rate of 11.35%, which is projected to reduce to an ultimate rate of 4.25% in 2010. The Company increased its beginning rate based upon actual plan and industry experience during 2002. However, the Company continues to believe the ultimate trend rate of 2010 is appropriate at this time. Based on a discount rate of 6.25%, a health care trend rate as discussed above and various other assumptions, the Company estimates that OPEB expense will approximate $2.7 million in 2003 and 2004 and $2.6 million in 2005. A 0.25% increase (decrease) in the discount rate would decrease (increase) projected OPEB expense by approximately $0.1 million in 2003, 2004 and 2005. A 1.0% increase (decrease) in the health care trend rate for each year would increase (decrease) projected OPEB expense by approximately $0.3 million in 2003, 2004 and 2005. 39 Environmental matters. See "Business Regulatory and environmental matters" in Item 1 and Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of environmental matters. Other. On September 9, 2002, Moodys Investor Service lowered its rating on the Companys Convertible Preferred Securities to Caa2 from B3. Standard & Poors Ratings Services ("S&P") lowered its rating on the Companys Convertible Preferred Securities to CCC from CCC on September 10, 2002, to C from CCC on October 29, 2002 and to D from CCC on December 2, 2002. The Companys ability to obtain additional capital in the future could be negatively affected by these rating actions. The Company periodically evaluates its liquidity requirements, capital needs and availability of resources in view of, among other things, its alternative uses of capital, debt service requirements, the cost of debt and equity capital and estimated future operating cash flows. As a result of this process, the Company has in the past, or in light of its current outlook, may in the future, seek to raise additional capital, modify its common and preferred dividend policies, restructure ownership interests, incur, refinance or restructure indebtedness, repurchase shares of common stock or Convertible Preferred Securities, sell assets, or take a combination of such steps or other steps to increase or manage its liquidity and capital resources. In the normal course of business, the Company investigates, evaluates, discusses and engages in acquisition, joint venture, strategic relationship and other business combination opportunities in the titanium, specialty metal and other industries. In the event of any future acquisition or joint venture opportunities, the Company may consider using then available liquidity, issuing equity securities or incurring additional indebtedness. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The Companys consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments, and select from a range of possible estimates and assumptions, that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reported period. On an on going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable, inventory allowances, impairments of investments in preferred securities and investments accounted for by the equity method, the recoverability of other long lived assets, including property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets, pension and other post retirement benefit obligations and the related underlying actuarial assumptions, the realization of deferred income tax assets, and accruals for environmental remediation, litigation, income tax and other contingencies. The Company bases its estimates and judgments, to varying degrees, on historical experience, advice of external specialists and various other factors it believes to be prudent under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from previously estimated amounts and such estimates, assumptions and judgments are regularly subject to revision. The policies and estimates discussed below are considered by management to be critical to an understanding of the Companys financial statements because their application requires the most significant judgments from management in estimating matters for financial reporting that are inherently uncertain. See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these policies and estimates, as well as discussion of additional accounting policies and estimates. 40 Impairments of long lived assets. Generally, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of long lived assets, including property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets, may not be recoverable, the Company prepares an evaluation of the assets or asset group. If this evaluation indicates that the carrying amount of the asset or asset group is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment would typically be calculated using discounted expected future cash flows or appraised values. All relevant factors are considered in determining whether an impairment exists. The Company completed an entity wide impairment assessment under SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets during the fourth quarter of 2002 in response to continued poor conditions in the commercial aerospace market. In order to complete this assessment, the Company identified its lowest level of identifiable cash flows, resulting in the identification of four asset groups U.S., U.K., France and Italy. Of these asset groups, Italy is not reliant on sales into the commercial aerospace market and therefore an analysis of its potential impairment was not considered necessary. The result of this assessment led the Company to conclude that there was no impairment related to the long lived assets in the three asset groups tested, as the undiscounted cash flows exceeded the net carrying value of the applicable net assets in each of the three asset groups. Although management utilizes certain external information sources such as The Airline Monitor as the basis for aerospace sales volume projections, significant management judgment is required in estimating other factors that are material to future cash flows including, but not limited to, customer demand, the Companys market position, selling prices, competitive forces and manufacturing costs. Future cash flows are inherently uncertain, and there can be no assurance that the Company will achieve the future cash flows reflected in its projections. The Company also completed an impairment assessment of its goodwill and intangible assets under SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, during 2002, as more fully discussed in "Results of Operations Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle." Management judgment was required in order to identify the Companys reporting units, determine the carrying amount of each reporting unit by assigning its assets and liabilities, including existing goodwill and intangible assets, to those reporting units as of January 1, 2002, and determine the implied fair value of its goodwill. This evaluation, which was completed with the assistance of an external valuation specialist and considered a combination of fair value indicators including quoted market prices, prices of comparable businesses and discounted projected cash flows, indicated that the Companys recorded goodwill might be impaired and required the Company to complete the second step of the impairment test. Based on the results of the impairment test, the Company recorded a non cash goodwill impairment charge of $44.3 million, representing the entire balance of the Companys recorded goodwill at January 1, 2002. 41 Valuation and impairment of securities. In accordance with SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, the Company evaluates its investments in debt and equity securities whenever events or conditions occur to indicate that the fair value of such investments has declined below their carrying amounts. If the decline in fair value is judged to be other than temporary, the carrying amount of the security is written down to fair value. In response to certain events previously described in this MD&A, the Company undertook assessments in the fourth quarter of 2001 and the first quarter of 2002 of its investment in SMC with the assistance of an external valuation specialist. Those assessments indicated that it was unlikely that the Company would recover its then existing carrying amount of the SMC securities in accordance with the securities contractual terms and that an other than temporary decline in the fair value of its investment had occurred. Accordingly, the Company recorded impairment charges of $61.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2001 and $27.5 million in the first quarter of 2002. The SMC convertible preferred securities held by the Company are not publicly traded and, accordingly, quoted market prices are unavailable. The estimate of fair value requires significant judgment and considered a number of factors including, but not limited to, the financial health and prospects of the issuer and market yields of comparable securities. The ultimate amount, if any, which the Company may ultimately realize from its investment in the SMC securities is unknown due to the uncertainties associated with its bankruptcy proceedings; however, the Company believes it is unlikely that it will recover any amount from this investment. Deferred income tax valuation allowances. Under SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, and related guidance, the Company is required to record a valuation allowance if realization of deferred tax assets is not "more likely than not." Substantial weight must be given to recent historical results and near term projections and management must assess the availability of tax planning strategies that might impact either the need for, or amount of, any valuation allowance. As more fully discussed in "Results of Operations Income taxes," based on the Companys recent history of losses, its near term outlook and managements evaluation of available tax planning strategies, in the fourth quarter of 2001 the Company concluded that realization of its previously recorded U.S. deferred tax assets did not continue to meet the "more likely than not" recognition criteria. Accordingly, during 2001 the Company increased its deferred tax valuation allowance by $35.5 million to offset deferred tax benefits related to net U.S. deferred tax assets, primarily net operating loss and minimum tax credit carryforwards, and determined that it would not recognize deferred tax benefits related to future U.S. losses continuing for an uncertain period of time. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company determined that it would not recognize a deferred tax asset related to its U.K. net deferred tax assets because it did not meet the "more likely than not" recognition criteria. Accordingly, the Company recorded a deferred tax asset valuation allowance of $7.2 million through other comprehensive loss in the fourth quarter of 2002 to offset the related U.K. deferred tax asset that arose due to an increase in U.K. minimum pension liabilities and determined that it would not recognize deferred tax assets related to either future U.K. losses or future increases in U.K. minimum pension liabilities continuing for an uncertain period of time. Regular reviews of the "more likely than not" criteria and availability of tax planning strategies will continue to require significant management judgment. 42 Inventory allowances. The Company values approximately one half of its inventory using the last in, first out ("LIFO") method with the remainder primarily stated using an average cost method. The Company periodically reviews its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory and records any write down equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and its estimated net realizable value based upon assumptions about alternative uses, market conditions and other factors. Pension and OPEB expenses and obligations. The Companys pension and OPEB expenses and obligations are calculated based on several estimates, including discount rates, expected rates of returns on plan assets and expected health care trend rates. The Company reviews these rates annually with the assistance of its actuaries. See further discussion of the factors considered and potential effect of these estimates in "Liquidity and Capital Resources Pension plans" and "Liquidity and Capital Resources Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions." Revenue recognition. Sales revenue is generally recognized when the Company has certified that its product meets the related customer specifications, the product has been shipped, and title and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the customer. Payments received from customers in advance of these criteria being met are recorded as customer advances until earned. The Company believes that its revenue recognition policies are in compliance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements. Other loss contingencies. Accruals for estimated loss contingencies, including, but not limited to, product related liabilities, environmental remediation, and litigation, are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Disclosure is made when there is a reasonable possibility that a loss may have been incurred. Contingent liabilities are often resolved over long time periods. Estimating probable losses often requires analysis of various projections that are dependent upon the future outcome of multiple factors, including costs, the findings of investigations, and actions by the Company and third parties. 43 ITEM 7A: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest rates. The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates related to indebtedness. The Company typically does not enter into interest rate swaps or other types of contracts in order to manage its interest rate market risk. At December 31, 2002 substantially all of the Companys indebtedness was denominated in U.S. dollars, British pounds sterling or euros and bore interest at variable rates, primarily related to spreads over LIBOR. Because the Companys indebtedness reprices with changes in market interest rates, the carrying amount of such debt is believed to approximate fair value. The following table summarizes the Companys indebtedness and related maturities as of December 31, 2002. Contractual maturity date (1) Interest 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 rate (2) (In millions) Variable rate debt: U. S. dollars $ 11.9 $ $ 2.0 $ $ 3.7% British pounds sterling 4.4 5.3% Euros 1.0 3.7% (1) Non U. S. dollar denominated amounts are translated at year end rates of exchange. (2) Weighted average. The Companys indebtedness as of December 31, 2001 is summarized below. Contractual maturity date (1) Interest 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 rate (2) (In millions) Variable rate debt: U. S. dollars $ $ $ 8.1 $ $ 3.0% British pounds sterling 2.6 5.3% Euros 1.7 3.9% (1) Non U. S. dollar denominated amounts are translated at year end rates of exchange. (2) Weighted average. Foreign currency exchange rates. The Company is exposed to market risk arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of its international operations. The Company typically does not enter into currency forward contracts to manage its foreign exchange market risk associated with receivables, payables and indebtedness denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the particular entity. See "Results of Operations European operations" in Item 7 (MD&A) for further discussion. Commodity prices. The Company is exposed to market risk arising from changes in commodity prices as a result of its long term purchase and supply agreements with certain suppliers and customers. These agreements, which offer various fixed or formula determined pricing arrangements, effectively obligate the Company to bear (i) the risk of increased raw material and other costs to the Company which cannot be passed on to the Companys customers through increased titanium product prices (in whole or in part) or (ii) the risk of decreasing raw material costs to the Companys suppliers which are not passed on to the Company in the form of lower raw material prices. 44 Other. The Company holds convertible preferred securities of Special Metals Corporation with a principal amount of $80 million and an estimated fair value of zero. These securities are not publicly traded, and, accordingly, quoted market prices are unavailable. These securities are accounted for at estimated fair value and are considered "available for sale" securities. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources Operating activities" in Item 7 (MD&A) and Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 
 
