Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A"), are forward looking statements that represent managements beliefs and assumptions based on currently available information. Forward looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as "believes," "intends," "may," "will," "looks," "should," "could," "anticipates," "expects" or comparable terminology or by discussions of strategies or trends. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward looking statements are reasonable, it cannot give any assurances that these expectations will prove to be correct. Such statements by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results. Actual future results could differ materially from those described in such forward looking statements, and the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Annual Report, including risks and uncertainties in those portions referenced above and those described from time to time in the Companys other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") which include, but are not limited to, the cyclicality of the commercial aerospace industry, the performance of aerospace manufacturers and the Company under their long term agreements, the renewal of certain long term agreements, the difficulty in forecasting demand for titanium products, global economic and political conditions, global productive capacity for titanium, changes in product pricing and costs, the impact of long term contracts with vendors on the ability of the Company to reduce or increase supply or achieve lower costs, the possibility of labor disruptions, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, fluctuations in the market price of marketable securities, control by certain stockholders and possible conflicts of interest, uncertainties associated with new product development, the supply of raw materials and services, changes in raw material and other operating costs (including energy costs), possible disruption of business or increases in the cost of doing business resulting from terrorist activities or global conflicts, the Companys ability to achieve reductions in its cost structure, the potential for adjustment of the Companys deferred income tax asset valuation allowance and other risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks materialize (or the consequences of such a development worsen), or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from those forecasted or expected. PART I ITEM 1: BUSINESS General. Titanium Metals Corporation ("TIMET" or the "Company") was originally formed in 1950 and was incorporated in Delaware in 1955. TIMET is one of the worlds leading producers of titanium melted and mill products. The Company is the only producer with major titanium production facilities in both the United States and Europe, the worlds principal markets for titanium consumption. TIMET is currently the only major producer of titanium sponge, a key raw material, in the United States. Titanium was first manufactured for commercial use in the 1950s. Titaniums unique combination of corrosion resistance, elevated temperature performance and high strength to weight ratio makes it particularly desirable for use in commercial and military aerospace applications where these qualities are essential design requirements for certain critical parts such as wing supports and jet engine components. While aerospace applications have historically accounted for a substantial portion of the worldwide demand for titanium, the number of non aerospace end use markets for titanium has expanded substantially. Today, numerous industrial uses for titanium exist, including chemical plants, power plants, desalination plants and pollution control equipment. Demand for titanium is also increasing in emerging markets with such diverse uses as offshore oil and gas production installations, military armor, automotive, geothermal facilities and architectural applications. TIMETs products include titanium sponge, melted products, mill products and industrial fabrications. The titanium industry is comprised of several manufacturers that, like TIMET, produce a relatively complete range of titanium products and a significant number of producers worldwide that manufacture a limited range of titanium mill products. Based on the Companys industry experience and information obtained from publicly available external resources (e.g., United States Geological Survey, International Titanium Association and Japan Titanium Society), the Company estimates that it accounted for approximately 18% of worldwide industry shipments of titanium mill products in 2004 and 2003 and approximately 10% and 8% of worldwide titanium sponge production in 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Companys long term strategy is to maximize the value of its core aerospace business while also developing new markets, applications and products to help reduce its traditional dependence on the aerospace industry. In the near term, the Company continues to focus on maintaining a lean cost structure, managing its raw material requirements, improving the quality of its products and processes and taking other actions to continue to generate positive cash flow and further expand its profitability. Industry. The titanium industry historically has derived a substantial portion of its business from the aerospace industry. Aerospace demand for titanium products, which includes both jet engine components (e.g., blades, discs, rings and engine cases) and air frame components (e.g., bulkheads, tail sections, landing gear, wing supports and fasteners) can be broken down into commercial and military sectors. The commercial aerospace sector has a significant influence on titanium companies, particularly mill product producers such as TIMET. Military aerospace sector shipments are largely driven by government defense spending in North America and Europe. The following table illustrates the Companys estimates of titanium industry mill product shipments during 2004 and 2003: Year ended December 31, % 2004 2003 change (metric tons) Mill product shipments to: Commercial aerospace sector 20,900 16,000 +31% Military aerospace sector 4,000 4,100 2% Total aerospace industry 24,900 20,100 +24% Aggregate mill product shipments to all industries 61,800 50,200 +23% The Companys business is more dependent on aerospace demand than is the overall titanium industry, as approximately 70% of the Companys mill product shipment volume in 2004 was to the aerospace industry (58% commercial aerospace and 12% military aerospace), whereas approximately 40% of the overall titanium industrys shipment volume in 2004 was to the aerospace industry, as indicated by the above table. The cyclical nature of the aerospace industry has been the principal driver of the historical fluctuations in the performance of most titanium companies. Over the past 20 years, the titanium industry had cyclical peaks in mill product shipments in 1989, 1997 and 2001 and cyclical lows in 1983, 1991, 1999 and 2002. Prior to 2004, demand for titanium reached its highest level in 1997 when industry mill product shipments reached approximately 60,700 metric tons. However, since 1997, industry mill product shipments have fluctuated significantly, primarily due to a continued change in demand for titanium from the commercial aerospace sector. The Company estimates that industry shipments approximated 50,200 metric tons in 2003 and 61,800 metric tons in 2004. The Company currently expects total industry mill product shipments will increase from 2004 levels to approximately 71,000 metric tons in 2005. The Airline Monitor, a leading aerospace publication, traditionally issues forecasts for commercial aircraft deliveries each January and July. According to The Airline Monitor, large commercial aircraft deliveries for the 1996 to 2004 period peaked in 1999 with 889 aircraft, including 254 wide body aircraft that use substantially more titanium than their narrow body counterparts. Large commercial aircraft deliveries totaled 602 (including 147 wide bodies) in 2004. The following table summarizes The Airline Monitors most recently issued forecast (January 2005) for large commercial aircraft deliveries over the next five years: % increase (decrease) Forecasted deliveries over previous year Year Total Wide bodies Total Wide bodies 2005 680 172 13% 17% 2006 720 171 6% (1%) 2007 760 200 6% 17% 2008 805 240 6% 20% 2009 795 255 (1%) 6% 2 Deliveries of titanium generally precede aircraft deliveries by about one year, although this varies considerably by titanium product. This correlates to the Companys cycle, which historically precedes the cycle of the aircraft industry and related deliveries. Although global traffic increased in 2004 compared to 2003, persistently high oil prices had an adverse impact on the commercial airline industry. According to The Airline Monitor, the worldwide commercial airline industrys estimated operating loss for 2004 was $5.9 billion, and the projected 2005 operating loss is $2.9 billion. According to ROM Associates, Inc., a leading aerospace research company, global airline passenger traffic returned to pre September 11, 2001 levels in October 2003. The Company estimates that industry mill product shipments into the commercial aerospace sector will approximate 26,000 metric tons in 2005. Military aerospace programs were the first to utilize titaniums unique properties on a large scale, beginning in the 1950s. Titanium shipments to military aerospace markets reached a peak in the 1980s before falling to historical lows in the early 1990s after the end of the Cold War. However, the importance of military markets to the titanium industry is expected to rise in coming years as defense spending budgets increase in reaction to terrorist activities and global conflicts. Several of todays active U.S. military programs, including the C 17, F/A 18, F 16 and F 15 began during the Cold War and are forecast to continue production through the end of the current decade. In addition to these established U.S. programs, new U.S. programs offer growth opportunities for increased titanium consumption. The F/A 22 Raptor is currently in low rate initial production, and the U.S. Air Force currently plans to purchase between 276 and 300 aircraft over the life of the program, depending on funding levels. The recent budget proposed by President Bush provides for an overall increase in spending compared to current levels, principally to continue funding military ground efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan. The current budget proposal also calls for an end to procurement of the F/A 22 in 2008, with total F/A 22 production capped at 179 aircraft. However, final procurement decisions must receive Congressional approval. In October 2001, Lockheed Martin Corporation was awarded the contract for construction of the F 35 Joint Strike Fighter ("JSF"). The JSF is expected to enter low rate initial production in 2006, and although no specific delivery patterns have been established, procurement is expected to extend over the next 30 to 40 years and to include as many as 3,000 to 4,000 planes. European military programs also have active aerospace programs offering the possibility for increased titanium consumption. Production levels for the Saab Gripen, Eurofighter Typhoon, Dassault Rafale and Dassault Mirage 2000 are all forecasted to remain steady through the end of the decade. Since titaniums initial applications in the aerospace sector, the number of end use markets for titanium has significantly expanded. Established industrial uses for titanium include chemical plants, power plants, desalination plants and pollution control equipment. Rapid growth of the Chinese and other Southeast Asian economies has brought unprecedented demand for titanium intensive industrial equipment. Titanium continues to gain acceptance in many emerging market applications, including automotive, military armor, energy and architecture. Although titanium is generally higher cost than other competing metals, in many cases customers find the physical properties of titanium to be attractive from the standpoint of weight, performance, longevity, design alternatives, life cycle value and other factors. Although the Company estimates that emerging market demand presently represents only about 5% of the 2004 total industry demand for titanium mill products, the Company believes emerging market demand, in the aggregate, could grow at double digit rates over the next several years. The Company is actively pursuing these markets. 3 The automotive market continues to be an attractive emerging market segment due to its potential for sustainable long term growth. For this reason, in 2002, TIMET established TiMET Automotive, which is focused on developing and marketing proprietary alloys and processes specifically suited for automotive applications. Titanium is now used in several consumer car applications as well as in numerous motorcycles. At the present time, titanium is primarily used for exhaust systems, suspension springs and engine valves in consumer vehicles. In exhaust systems, titanium provides for significant weight savings, while its corrosion resistance provides life of vehicle durability. In suspension spring applications, titaniums low modulus of elasticity allows the springs height to be reduced by 20% to 40% compared to a steel spring, which, when combined with the titaniums low density, permits 30% to 60% weight savings over steel spring suspension systems. Titanium suspension springs and exhaust applications are also attractive compared to alternative lightweight technologies because the titanium component can often be formed and fabricated on the same tooling used for the steel component it is typically replacing. Titanium is also making inroads into other automotive applications, including turbo charger wheels, brake parts and connecting rods. Titanium engine components provide mass reduction benefits that directly improve vehicle performance and fuel economy. The decision to select titanium components for consumer car, truck and motorcycle components remains highly cost sensitive; however, the Company believes titaniums acceptance in consumer vehicles will expand as the automotive industry continues to better understand the benefits titanium offers. Utilization of titanium on military ground combat vehicles for armor applique and integrated armor or structural components continues to gain acceptance within the military market segment. Titanium armor components provide the necessary ballistic performance while achieving a mission critical vehicle performance objective of reduced weight. In order to counteract increased threat levels, titanium is being utilized on vehicle upgrade programs in addition to new builds. Based on active programs, as well as programs currently under evaluation, the Company believes there will be additional usage of titanium on ground combat vehicles that will provide continued growth in the military market segment. The oil and gas market utilizes titanium for down hole logging tools, critical riser components, fire water systems and saltwater cooling systems. Additionally, as offshore development of new oil and gas fields moves into the ultra deep water depths, market demand for titaniums light weight, high strength and corrosion resistance properties is creating new opportunities for the material. The Company has a group dedicated to developing the expansion of titanium use in this market and in other non aerospace applications. Products and operations. The Company is a vertically integrated titanium manufacturer whose products include: (i) titanium sponge, the basic form of titanium metal used in processed titanium products; (ii) melted products (ingot and slab), the result of melting sponge and titanium scrap, either alone or with various alloys; (iii)mill products that are forged and rolled from ingot or slab, including long products (billet and bar), flat products (plate, sheet and strip) and pipe; and (iv) fabrications (spools, pipefittings, manifolds, vessels, etc.) that are cut, formed, welded and assembled from titanium mill products. 4 During the past three years, all of TIMETs net sales were generated by the Companys integrated titanium operations (its "Titanium melted and mill products" segment), its only business segment. Business and geographic segment financial information is included in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Titanium sponge (so called because of its appearance) is the commercially pure, elemental form of titanium metal. The first step in TIMETs sponge production involves the chlorination of titanium containing rutile ores (derived from beach sand) with chlorine and petroleum coke to produce titanium tetrachloride. Titanium tetrachloride is purified and then reacted with magnesium in a closed system, producing titanium sponge and magnesium chloride as co products. The Companys titanium sponge production facility in Henderson, Nevada incorporates vacuum distillation process ("VDP") technology, which removes the magnesium and magnesium chloride residues by applying heat to the sponge mass while maintaining a vacuum in the chamber. The combination of heat and vacuum boils the residues from the sponge mass, and then the mass is mechanically pushed out of the distillation vessel, sheared and crushed, while the residual magnesium chloride is electrolytically separated and recycled. Titanium ingot is a cylindrical solid shape that, in TIMETs case, weighs up to 8 metric tons. Titanium slab is a rectangular solid shape that, in TIMETs case, weighs up to 16 metric tons. Each ingot or slab is formed by melting titanium sponge, scrap or both, usually with various other alloys such as vanadium, aluminum, molybdenum, tin and zirconium. Titanium scrap is a by product of the forging, rolling, milling and machining operations, and significant quantities of scrap are generated in the production process for finished titanium products and components. The melting process for ingot and slab is closely controlled and monitored utilizing computer control systems to maintain product quality and consistency and to meet customer specifications. In most cases, TIMET uses its ingot and slab as the starting material for further processing into mill products. However, it also sells ingot and slab to third parties. The Company sends certain products either to the Companys service centers or to outside vendors for further processing before being shipped to customers. The Companys customers either process the Companys products for their ultimate end use or for sale to third parties. During the production process and following the completion of manufacturing, the Company performs extensive testing on its products. The inspection process is critical to ensuring that the Companys products meet the high quality requirements of its customers, particularly in aerospace component production. The Company certifies that its products meet customer specification at the time of shipment for substantially all customer orders. The Company currently is reliant on several outside processors (one of which is owned by a competitor) to perform certain rolling, finishing and other processing steps in the U.S., and certain melting and forging steps in France. In France, the processor is also a joint venture partner in the Companys 70% owned subsidiary, TIMET Savoie, S.A. ("TIMET Savoie"). During the past several years, the Company has made significant strides toward reducing the reliance on competitor owned sources for these services, so that any interruption in these functions should not have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. 5 Distribution. The Company sells its products through its own sales force based in the U.S. and Europe and through independent agents and distributors worldwide. The Companys distribution system also includes eight Company owned service centers (five in the U.S. and three in Europe), which sell the Companys products on a just in time basis. The service centers primarily sell value added and customized mill products, including bar, flat rolled sheet and strip. The Company believes its service centers provide a competitive advantage because of their ability to foster customer relationships, customize products to suit specific customer requirements and respond quickly to customer needs. Raw materials. The principal raw materials used in the production of titanium ingot, slab and mill products are titanium sponge, titanium scrap and alloys. The following table summarizes the Companys 2004 raw material usage requirements for its melted and mill products: Percentage of total raw material requirements Internally produced sponge 30% Purchased sponge 32% Titanium scrap 31% Alloys 7% 100% The primary raw materials used in the production of titanium sponge are titanium containing rutile ore, chlorine, magnesium and petroleum coke. Rutile ore is currently available from a limited number of suppliers around the world, principally located in Australia, South Africa and Sri Lanka. The Company purchases the majority of its supply of rutile ore from Australia. The Company believes the availability of rutile ore will be adequate for the foreseeable future and does not anticipate any interruptions of its rutile supplies. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience interruptions. Chlorine is currently obtained from a single supplier near the Companys sponge plant in Henderson, Nevada. While the Company does not presently anticipate any chlorine supply problems, there can be no assurances the chlorine supply will not be interrupted. In the event of supply disruption, the Company has taken steps to mitigate this risk, including establishing the feasibility of certain equipment modifications to enable it to utilize material from alternative chlorine suppliers or to purchase and utilize an intermediate product which will allow the Company to eliminate the purchase of chlorine if needed. Magnesium and petroleum coke are generally available from a number of suppliers. During 2004, the Company was the only major U.S. producer of titanium sponge and one of only five major worldwide producers (the others are located in Russia, Kazakhstan and two in Japan). However, it cannot supply all of its needs for all grades of titanium sponge internally and is dependent, therefore, on third parties for a substantial portion of its sponge requirements. Titanium melted and mill products require varying grades of sponge and or scrap depending on the customers specifications and expected end use. Presently, TIMET and certain companies in Japan are the only producers of premium quality sponge that currently have complete approval for all significant demanding aerospace applications. Over the past few years, sponge producers in Russia and Kazakhstan have progressed in their efforts to obtain approval for the use of their sponge into all aerospace applications. This qualification process is likely to continue for several more years. 6 Historically, the Company has purchased sponge predominantly from producers in Kazakhstan and Japan. In September 2002, the Company entered into a sponge supply agreement, effective from January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2007, which requires minimum annual purchases by the Company. The Company has no other long term sponge supply agreements. Since 2000, the Company has also purchased sponge from the U.S. Defense Logistics Agency ("DLA") stockpile; however, the DLA stockpile is expected to become fully depleted during 2005. The Company expects to continue to purchase sponge from a variety of sources during 2005. The Company utilizes a combination of internally produced, customer returned and externally purchased titanium scrap at its melting locations. Such scrap consists of alloyed and commercially pure solids and turnings. Internally produced scrap is generated in the Companys factories during both melting and mill product processing. Customer returned scrap is generally part of a supply agreement with a customer, which provides a "closed loop" arrangement resulting in supply and cost stability. Externally purchased scrap comes from a wide range of sources, including customers, collectors, processors and brokers. The Company anticipates that 50% to 60% of the scrap it will utilize during 2005 will be purchased from external suppliers, as compared to 52% for 2004. The Company also occasionally sells scrap, usually in a form or grade it cannot economically recycle. Market forces can significantly impact the supply or cost of externally produced scrap. The amount of scrap generated in the supply chain varies during the titanium business cycles. During the middle of the cycle, scrap generation and consumption are in relative equilibrium, minimizing disruptions in supply or significant changes in market prices for scrap. Increasing or decreasing cycles tend to cause significant changes in the market price of scrap. Early in the titanium cycle, when the demand for titanium melted and mill products begins to increase, the Companys requirements (and those of other titanium manufacturers) precede the increase in scrap generation by downstream customers and the supply chain, placing upward pressure on the market price of scrap. The opposite situation occurs when demand for titanium melted and mill products begins to decline, placing downward pressure on the market price of scrap. As a net purchaser of scrap, the Company is susceptible to price increases during periods of increasing demand. Although this phenomenon normally results in higher selling prices for melted and mill products, which tends to offset the increased material costs, the Company is somewhat limited in its ability to raise prices by the portion of its business that is under long term pricing agreements. All of the Companys major competitors utilize scrap as a raw material in their melt operations. In addition to use by titanium manufacturers, titanium scrap is used in steel making operations during production of interstitial free steels, stainless steels and high strength low alloy steels. Recent strong demand for these steel products, especially from China, has produced a significant increase in demand for titanium scrap at a time when titanium scrap generation rates are at low levels, partly due to lower commercial aircraft build rates. These events created a significantly tightened supply of titanium scrap during 2004, and the Company expects this trend to continue and worsen during 2005. For TIMET, this will translate to lower availability and higher cost for externally purchased scrap in the near term. The Companys ability to recover these material costs via higher selling prices to its customers is uncertain. The expected increase in commercial aircraft build rates over the next several years, as previously discussed, could have the effect of relieving the shortage of titanium scrap. 7 Various alloys used in the production of titanium products are also available from a number of suppliers. However, the recent high level of global demand for steel products also has resulted in a significant increase in the prices for several alloys, such as vanadium and molybdenum. Although availability is not expected to be a problem, the Companys cost for these alloys during 2005 could be as much as double that of 2004. Customer agreements. The Company has long term agreements ("LTAs") with certain major aerospace customers, including, among others, The Boeing Company ("Boeing"), Rolls Royce plc and its German and U.S. affiliates ("Rolls Royce"), United Technologies Corporation (Pratt & Whitney and related companies) and Wyman Gordon Company ("Wyman Gordon," a unit of Precision Castparts Corporation ("PCC")). Most of these LTAs expire from 2005 through 2008, subject to certain conditions, and generally provide for (i) minimum market shares of the customers titanium requirements or firm annual volume commitments and (ii) fixed or formula determined prices (although some contain elements based on market pricing). Generally, the LTAs require the Companys service and product performance to meet specified criteria and contain a number of other terms and conditions customary in transactions of these types. Certain provisions of these LTAs have been amended in the past and may be amended in the future to meet changing business conditions. In certain events of nonperformance by the Company or the customer, the LTAs may be terminated early. Although it is possible that some portion of the business would continue on a non LTA basis, the termination of one or more of the LTAs could result in a material effect on the Companys business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. The LTAs were designed to limit selling price volatility to the customer, while providing TIMET with a committed base of volume throughout the aerospace business cycles. To varying degrees, these LTAs effectively obligate TIMET to bear the majority of the risks of increases in raw material and other costs, but also allow TIMET to benefit from decreases in such costs. During the third quarter of 2003, the Company and Wyman Gordon agreed to terminate the 1998 purchase and sale agreement associated with the formation of the titanium castings joint venture previously owned by the two parties. The Company paid Wyman Gordon a total of $6.8 million in three quarterly installments in connection with this termination, which included the termination of certain favorable purchase terms. The Company recorded a one time charge for the entire $6.8 million as a reduction to sales in the third quarter of 2003. Concurrently, the Company entered into new long term purchase and sale agreements with Wyman Gordon that expire in 2008. During 2001, the Company reached a settlement of certain litigation between TIMET and Boeing related to the parties LTA entered into in 1997. Pursuant to the settlement, the Company received a cash payment of $82 million from Boeing. Under the terms of the LTA, as amended, in 2002 through 2007, Boeing advances TIMET $28.5 million annually less $3.80 per pound of titanium product purchased by Boeing subcontractors under the Boeing LTA during the preceding year. Effectively, the Company collects $3.80 less from Boeing than the LTA selling price for each pound of titanium product sold directly to Boeing and reduces the related customer advance recorded by the Company. For titanium products sold to Boeing subcontractors, the Company collects the full LTA selling price, but gives Boeing credit by reducing the next years annual advance by $3.80 per pound. The Boeing customer advance is also reduced as the Company recognizes income under the take or pay provisions of the LTA, as described in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Under a separate agreement, TIMET must establish and hold buffer stock for Boeing at TIMETs facilities, for which Boeing will be invoiced for an LTA sale by TIMET when such material is produced into a mill product by TIMET. See Item 7 MD&A for additional information regarding the Boeing LTA. 8 The Company also has an LTA with VALTIMET SAS ("VALTIMET"), a manufacturer of welded stainless steel and titanium tubing that is principally sold into the industrial markets. VALTIMET is a 44% owned affiliate of TIMET. The LTA was entered into in 1997 and expires in 2007. Under the LTA, TIMET has agreed to provide a certain percentage of VALTIMETs titanium requirements at formula determined selling prices, subject to certain conditions. Certain provisions of this contract have been amended in the past and may be amended in the future to meet changing business conditions. Markets and customer base. The following table summarizes the Companys sales revenue by geographical location: Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (Percentage of total sales revenue) Sales revenue to customers within: North America 55% 55% 53% Europe 40% 38% 40% Other 5% 7% 7% 100% 100% 100% Further information regarding the Companys external sales, net income, long lived assets and total assets by segment can be found in the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Operations and Notes 6 and 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Substantially all of the Companys sales and operating income are derived from operations based in the U.S., the U.K., France and Italy. As shown in the below table, the Company generates over two thirds of its sales revenue from sales to the aerospace industry (commercial and military sectors). The Company expects that a similar percentage of its 2005 sales revenue will be to the aerospace industry. As previously noted, the Company has LTAs with certain major aerospace customers, including Boeing, Rolls Royce, UTC and Wyman Gordon. This concentration of customers may impact the Companys overall exposure to credit and other risks, either positively or negatively, in that all of these customers may be similarly affected by the same economic or other conditions. The following table provides supplemental sales revenue information regarding the Companys dependence on certain industries and customer relationships: 9 Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (Percentage of total sales revenue) Sales revenue to: Aerospace industry: Commercial aerospace sector 57% 57% 56% Military aerospace sector 13% 11% 11% Total aerospace industry 70% 68% 67% Customers under LTAs 44% 41% 37% Significant customers under LTAs: (1) Rolls Royce and other Rolls Royce suppliers (2) 15% 15% 12% Ten largest customers 48% 44% 43% Significant customers: (1) PCC and related entities 13% 13% 9% (1) Greater than 10% of net sales. (2) Includes direct sales to certain of the PCC related entities under the terms of the Rolls Royce LTAs. The primary market for titanium products in the commercial aerospace industry consists of two major manufacturers of large (over 100 seats) commercial airframes Boeing Commercial Airplanes Group (a unit of Boeing) and Airbus (80% owned by European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company and 20% owned by BAE Systems). In addition to the airframe manufacturers, the following four manufacturers of large civil aircraft engines are also significant titanium users Rolls Royce, General Electric Aircraft Engines, Pratt & Whitney and Societe Nationale dEtude et de Construction de Moteurs dAviation ("Snecma"). The Companys sales are made both directly to these major manufacturers and to companies (including forgers such as Wyman Gordon) that use the Companys titanium to produce parts and other materials for such manufacturers. If any of the major aerospace manufacturers were to significantly reduce aircraft and or jet engine build rates from those currently expected, there could be a material adverse effect, both directly and indirectly, on the Company. The backlogs for Boeing and Airbus reflect orders for aircraft to be delivered over several years. Changes in the economic environment and the financial condition of airlines can result in rescheduling or cancellation of contractual orders. Accordingly, aircraft manufacturer backlogs are not necessarily a reliable indicator of near term business activity, but may be indicative of potential business levels over a longer term horizon. The following table shows the estimated firm order backlogs for Boeing and Airbus, as reported by The Airline Monitor: 10 At December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Firm order backlog all planes: Airbus 1,500 1,454 1,505 Boeing 1,089 1,101 1,144 2,589 2,555 2,649 Firm order backlog wide body planes: Airbus 466 471 423 Boeing 287 230 286 753 701 709 Wide body planes as % of total firm order backlog 29% 27% 27% Wide body planes (e.g., Boeing 747, 767, 777 and 787 and Airbus A330, A340 and A380) tend to use a higher percentage of titanium in their airframes, engines and parts than narrow body planes (e.g., Boeing 737 and 757 and Airbus A318, A319 and A320), and newer models of planes tend to use a higher percentage of titanium than older models. Additionally, Boeing generally uses a higher percentage of titanium in its airframes than Airbus. For example, the Company estimates that approximately 58 metric tons, 43 metric tons and 18 metric tons of titanium are purchased for the manufacture of each Boeing 777, 747 and 737, respectively, including both the airframes and engines. The Company estimates that approximately 24 metric tons, 17 metric tons and 12 metric tons of titanium are purchased for the manufacture of each Airbus A340, A330 and A320, respectively, including both the airframes and engines. At year end 2004, a total of 139 firm orders had been placed for the Airbus A380 superjumbo jet, a program officially launched in 2000 with anticipated first deliveries in 2006. Current estimates are that approximately 77 metric tons of titanium (50 metric tons for the airframe and 27 metric tons for the engines) will be purchased for each A380 manufactured. Additionally, at year end 2004, a total of 56 firm orders have been placed for the Boeing 787 Dreamliner, a program officially launched in April 2004 with anticipated first deliveries in 2008. Although the 787 will contain more composite materials than a typical Boeing airplane, the Companys preliminary estimates are that approximately 91 metric tons of titanium (80 metric tons for the airframe and 11 metric tons for the engines) will be purchased for each 787 manufactured. However, the final titanium buy weight is likely to vary because the 787 is still in the design phase. Outside of aerospace markets, the Company manufactures a wide range of products for customers in the chemical process, oil and gas, consumer, sporting goods, automotive, power generation and armor/armament industries. Approximately 17% of the Companys sales revenue in 2004, 19% in 2003 and 18% in 2002 was generated by sales into industrial and emerging markets, including sales to VALTIMET for the production of welded tubing. For the oil and gas industry, the Company provides seamless pipe for downhole casing, risers, tapered stress joints and other offshore oil and gas production equipment, along with firewater piping systems. In armor and armament, the Company sells plate products for fabrication into applique plate for protection of the entire ground combat vehicle as well as the primary vehicle structure. 11 In addition to melted and mill products, which are sold into the aerospace, industrial and emerging markets, the Company sells certain other products such as titanium sponge, titanium tetrachloride and titanium fabrications. Sales of these other products represented 13% of the Companys sales revenue in both 2004 and 2003 and 15% in 2002. During 2004, the Company modified its method of calculating its backlog to include replenishment purchase orders placed under consignment relationships. The Company believes inclusion of these orders provides a more accurate reflection of the Companys overall backlog. Using the modified methodology for all periods, the Companys backlog of unfilled orders was approximately $450 million at December 31, 2004, compared to $205 million at December 31, 2003 and $185 million at December 31, 2002. Over 94% of the 2004 year end backlog is scheduled for shipment during 2005. The Companys order backlog may not be a reliable indicator of future business activity. The Company has explored and will continue to explore strategic arrangements in the areas of product development, production and distribution. The Company will also continue to work with existing and potential customers to identify and develop new or improved applications for titanium that take advantage of its unique qualities. Competition. The titanium metals industry is highly competitive on a worldwide basis. Producers of melted and mill products are located primarily in the United States, Japan, France, Germany, Italy, Russia, China and the United Kingdom. In addition, producers of other metal products, such as steel and aluminum, maintain forging, rolling and finishing facilities that could be used or modified without substantial capital expenditures to process titanium products. There are currently five major, and several minor, producers of titanium sponge in the world. Three of the major producers have announced plans to increase sponge production capacity. TIMET is currently the only major U.S. sponge producer. The Company believes that entry as a producer of titanium sponge would require a significant capital investment and substantial technical expertise. The Companys principal competitors in the aerospace titanium market are Allegheny Technologies Incorporated ("ATI") and RTI International Metals, Inc. ("RTI"), both based in the United States, and Verkhnaya Salda Metallurgical Production Organization ("VSMPO"), based in Russia. UNITI (a joint venture between ATI and VSMPO), RTI and certain Japanese producers are the Companys principal competitors in the industrial and emerging markets. The Company competes primarily on the basis of price, quality of products, technical support and the availability of products to meet customers delivery schedules. In the U.S. market, the increasing presence of non U.S. participants has become a significant competitive factor. Until 1993, imports of foreign titanium products into the U.S. had not been significant. This was primarily attributable to relative currency exchange rates and, with respect to Japan, Russia, Kazakhstan and Ukraine, import duties (including antidumping duties). However, since 1993, imports of titanium sponge, ingot and mill products, principally from Russia and Kazakhstan, have increased and have had a significant competitive impact on the U.S. titanium industry. To the extent the Company is able to take advantage of this situation by purchasing sponge from such countries for use in its own operations, the negative effect of these imports on the Company can be somewhat mitigated. 12 Generally, imports of titanium products into the U.S. are subject to a 15% "normal trade relations" tariff. For tariff purposes, titanium products are broadly classified as either wrought (billet, bar, sheet, strip, plate and tubing) or unwrought (sponge, ingot and slab). The United States maintains a trade program, referred to as the "generalized system of preferences" or "GSP" program, designed to promote the economies of a number of lesser developed countries (referred to as "beneficiary developing countries") by eliminating duties on a specific list of products imported from any of these beneficiary developing countries. Of the key titanium producing countries outside the U.S., Russia and Kazakhstan are currently regarded as beneficiary developing countries under the GSP program. For most periods since 1993, imports of titanium wrought products from any beneficiary developing country (notably Russia, as a producer of wrought products) were exempted from U.S. import duties under the GSP program. In 2002, TIMET filed a petition seeking the removal of duty free treatment under the GSP program for imports of titanium wrought products into the U.S. from Russia. During the third quarter of 2004, President Bush approved the petition. This action resulted in a return to the normal 15% tariff on imports of titanium wrought product from Russia. In 2002, Kazakhstan filed a petition seeking GSP status on imports of titanium sponge into the U.S., which, if granted, would have eliminated the 15% tariff currently imposed on titanium sponge imported into the U.S. from any beneficiary developing country (notably Russia and Kazakhstan, as producers of titanium sponge). Kazakhstans petition was denied in 2003. The Japanese government has recently raised the elimination or harmonization of tariffs on titanium products, including titanium sponge, for consideration in the next round of multi lateral trade negotiations through the World Trade Organization (the so called "Doha Round"), scheduled to start in late 2005. A U.S. competitor has recommended the elimination of U.S. tariffs on titanium sponge imports for consideration in the Doha Round. The Company has urged that no change be made to these tariffs, either on wrought or unwrought products. TIMET has successfully resisted, and will continue to resist, efforts to eliminate duties on sponge and unwrought titanium products (whether through the GSP program or otherwise), although no assurances can be made that the Company will continue to be successful in these activities. Further reductions in, or the complete elimination of, any or all of these tariffs could lead to increased imports of foreign sponge, ingot and mill products into the U.S. and an increase in the amount of such products on the market generally, which could adversely affect pricing for titanium sponge, ingot and mill products and thus the Companys business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Research and development. The Companys research and development activities are directed toward expanding the use of titanium and titanium alloys in all market sectors. Key research activities include the development of new alloys, development of technology required to enhance the performance of TIMETs products in the traditional industrial and aerospace markets and applications development for automotive and other emerging markets. The Company conducts the majority of its research and development activities at its Henderson Technical Laboratory in Henderson, Nevada, with additional activities at its Witton, England facility. The Company incurred research and development costs of $2.9 million in 2004, $2.8 million in 2003 and $3.3 million in 2002. 13 In April 2003, the Company was selected by the United States Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency ("DARPA") to lead a program aimed at commercializing the "FFC Cambridge Process." Development work is continuing at the Henderson Technical Laboratory and progress has been made in establishing the fundamentals of the process. While much work remains to be done and success is not certain, research into alternative low cost extraction technologies is one of the Companys core research and development areas. The Company believes that a meaningful reduction in the cost of producing titanium metal would not only make titanium a more attractive material choice within the aerospace industry, but also could provide further opportunities to use titanium in non aerospace applications where its current cost might be an obstacle. Patents and trademarks. The Company holds U.S. and non U.S. patents applicable to certain of its titanium alloys and manufacturing technology. The Company continually seeks patent protection with respect to its technical base and has occasionally entered into cross licensing arrangements with third parties. The Company believes the trademarks TIMET(R) and TIMETAL(R), which are protected by registration in the U.S. and other countries, are important to its business. Further, TIMET feels its proprietary TIMETAL Exhaust Grade, patented TIMETAL 62S connecting rod alloy, patented TIMETAL LCB spring alloy and patented TIMETAL Ti 1100 engine valve alloy give it competitive advantages in the automotive market. However, most of the titanium alloys and manufacturing technology used by the Company do not benefit from patent or other intellectual property protection. These patents expire at various times from 2007 through 2013. Employees. The following table shows the number of employees at year end for the past 3 years. The cyclical nature of the aerospace industry and its impact on the Companys business is the principal reason the Company periodically implements cost reduction restructurings, reorganizations and other changes that impact the Companys employment levels. The increases during 2003 and 2004 reflect the increase in demand for titanium products during the second half of 2003 and during 2004, somewhat offset by the Companys continued efforts to operate at more efficient levels. The Company currently expects employment to slightly increase throughout 2005 as production continues to increase. Employees at December 31, 2004 2003 2002 U.S. 1,376 1,266 1,184 Europe 851 789 772 2,227 2,055 1,956 The Companys production, maintenance, clerical and technical workers in Toronto, Ohio, and its production and maintenance workers in Henderson, Nevada are represented by the United Steelworkers of America under contracts expiring in July 2008 and January 2008, respectively. Employees at the Companys other U.S. facilities are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 60% of the salaried and hourly employees at the Companys European facilities are represented by various European labor unions. The Company currently has a labor agreement in place with the Companys U.K. employees through 2005. The Companys labor agreement with its French employees is renewed annually. The Company currently considers its employee relations to be satisfactory. However, it is possible that there could be future work stoppages or other labor disruptions that could materially and adversely affect the Companys business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. 14 Regulatory and environmental matters. The Companys operations are governed by various Federal, state, local and foreign environmental and worker safety laws and regulations. In the U.S., such laws include the Occupational, Safety and Health Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. The Company uses and manufactures substantial quantities of substances that are considered hazardous, extremely hazardous or toxic under environmental and worker safety and health laws and regulations. The Company has used and manufactured such substances throughout the history of its operations. As a result, risk of environmental, health and safety issues is inherent in the Companys operations. The Companys operations pose a continuing risk of accidental releases of, and worker exposure to, hazardous or toxic substances. There is also a risk that government environmental requirements, or enforcement thereof, may become more stringent in the future. There can be no assurance that some, or all, of the risks discussed under this heading will not result in liabilities that would be material to the Companys business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. The Company believes that its operations are in compliance in all material respects with applicable requirements of environmental and worker health and safety laws. The Companys policy is to continually strive to improve environmental, health and safety performance. The Company incurred capital expenditures related to health, safety and environmental compliance and improvement of approximately $5.1 million in 2004, $1.9 million in 2003 and $1.4 million in 2002. The 2004 amount includes $3.9 million related to the construction of a wastewater treatment facility at its Henderson, Nevada location. The Companys capital budget provides for approximately $16 million for environmental, health and safety capital expenditures in 2005, including approximately $13 million for completion of the wastewater treatment facility. From time to time, the Company may be subject to health, safety or environmental regulatory enforcement under various statutes, resolution of which typically involves the establishment of compliance programs. Occasionally, resolution of these matters may result in the payment of penalties. However, the imposition of more strict standards or requirements under environmental, health or safety laws and regulations could result in expenditures in excess of amounts currently estimated to be required for such matters. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Related parties. At December 31, 2004, Valhi, Inc. ("Valhi") and other entities related to Harold C. Simmons held approximately 52.9% of TIMETs outstanding common stock and 41.3% of the Companys Series A Preferred Stock. See Notes 1 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Available information. The Company maintains an Internet website at www.timet.com. The Companys Annual Reports on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q and Current Reports on Form 8 K, and any amendments thereto, are or will be available free of charge at such website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed or furnished, as applicable, with the SEC. Additionally, the Companys (i) Corporate Governance Guidelines, (ii) Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and (iii) Audit Committee, Management Development and Compensation Committee and Pension and Employee Benefits Committee charters are also available on the Companys website. Such documents will also be provided to shareholders upon request. Such requests should be directed to the attention of TIMETs Investor Relations Department at TIMETs corporate offices located at 1999 Broadway, Suite 4300, Denver, Colorado 80202. 15 The general public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549, and may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. The Company is an electronic filer, and the SEC maintains an Internet website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. ITEM 2: PROPERTIES Set forth below is a listing of the Companys major production facilities. In addition to its U.S. sponge capacity discussed below, the Companys worldwide melting capacity presently aggregates approximately 44,000 metric tons (estimated 28% of world capacity), and its mill product capacity aggregates approximately 19,000 metric tons (estimated 15% of world apacity). Of the Companys worldwide melting capacity, 36% is represented by electron beam cold hearth melting ("EB") furnaces, 62% by vacuum arc remelting ("VAR") furnaces and 2% by a vacuum induction melting ("VIM") furnace. Annual Practical Capacities (3) Melted Mill Manufacturing Location Products Manufactured Products Products (metric tons) Henderson, Nevada (1) Sponge, Ingot 12,250 Morgantown, Pennsylvania (1) Slab, Ingot, Raw materials processing 20,000 Toronto, Ohio (1) Billet, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Strip 9,900 Vallejo, California (2) Ingot (including non titanium superalloys) 1,600 Ugine, France (2) (4) Ingot, Billet 1,800 1,300 Waunarlwydd (Swansea), Wales(1) Bar, Plate, Sheet 3,900 Witton, England (2) Ingot, Billet, Bar 8,700 8,000 (1) Owned facility. (2) Leased facility. (3) Practical capacities are variable based on production mix and are not additive. (4) Practical capacities are based on the approximate maximum equivalent product that CEZUS is contractually obligated to provide. The Company has operated its major production facilities at varying levels of practical capacity during the past three years. In 2004, the plants operated at approximately 73% of practical capacity, as compared to 56% in 2003 and 55% in 2002. In 2005, the Companys plants are expected to operate at approximately 75% to 80% of practical capacity. However, practical capacity and utilization measures can vary significantly based upon the mix of products produced. United States production. The Companys VDP sponge facility is expected to operate at its full annual practical capacity of 8,600 metric tons during 2005, which is comparable to 2004. VDP sponge is used principally as a raw material for the Companys melting facilities in the U.S. and Europe. The raw materials processing facility in Morgantown, Pennsylvania primarily processes scrap used as melting feedstock, either in combination with sponge or separately. 16 The Companys U.S. melting facilities in Henderson, Nevada, Morgantown, Pennsylvania and Vallejo, California produce ingot and slab, which are either used as feedstock for the Companys mill products operations or sold to third parties. These melting facilities are expected to operate at approximately 85% of aggregate annual practical capacity in 2005, up from 76% in 2004. Titanium mill products are produced by TIMET in the U.S. at its forging and rolling facility in Toronto, Ohio, which receives ingot or slab principally from the Companys U.S. melting facilities. The Companys U.S. forging and rolling facility is expected to operate at approximately 83% of annual practical capacity in 2005, up from 66% in 2004. Capacity utilization across the Companys individual mill product lines varies. European production. The Company conducts its operations in Europe primarily through its wholly owned subsidiaries TIMET UK, Ltd. ("TIMET UK") and Loterios S.p.A. ("Loterios") and its 70% owned subsidiary TIMET Savoie. TIMET UKs Witton, England laboratory and manufacturing facilities are leased pursuant to long term operating leases expiring in 2014 and 2024, respectively. TIMET Savoie has the right to utilize portions of the Ugine, France plant of Compagnie Europeenne du Zirconium CEZUS, S.A. ("CEZUS"), the 30% minority partner in TIMET Savoie, pursuant to an agreement expiring in August 2006. The Company and CEZUS have reached an agreement in principle to extend this operating agreement through 2011. TIMET UKs melting facility in Witton, England produces VAR ingot used primarily as feedstock for its Witton forging operations. The forging operations process the ingot into billet product for sale to third parties or into an intermediate product for further processing into bar or plate at its facility in Waunarlwydd, Wales. TIMET UKs melting and mill products production in 2005 is expected to operate at approximately 76% and 59%, respectively, of annual practical capacity, compared to 73% and 54%, respectively, in 2004. The capacity of TIMET Savoie in Ugine, France is to a certain extent dependent upon the level of activity in CEZUS zirconium business, which may from time to time provide TIMET Savoie with capacity in excess of that which CEZUS is contractually required to provide. During 2004, TIMET Savoie utilized 107% of the maximum annual capacity CEZUS is contractually required to provide and the Company expects this amount to increase to 123% for 2005. Sponge for melting requirements at both TIMET UK and TIMET Savoie that is not supplied by the Companys Henderson, Nevada plant is purchased principally from suppliers in Kazakhstan and Japan. ITEM 3: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS From time to time, the Company is involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of its operations in the normal course of business. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 4: SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders of the Company during the quarter ended December 31, 2004 or through March 14, 2005. 17 PART II ITEM 5: MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES TIMETs common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: "TIE"). The high and low sales prices for the Companys common stock during 2003 and 2004 are set forth below. All prices have been adjusted to reflect the five for one stock split, which became effective after the close of trading on August 27, 2004, and the one for ten reverse stock split, which became effective after the close of trading on February 14, 2003. Year ended December 31, 2004: High Low First quarter $ 20.70 $ 8.48 Second quarter $ 21.58 $ 14.35 Third quarter $ 24.90 $ 18.40 Fourth quarter $ 26.60 $ 18.51 Year ended December 31, 2003: First quarter $ 4.88 $ 3.12 Second quarter $ 7.00 $ 4.19 Third quarter $ 7.68 $ 5.83 Fourth quarter $ 12.04 $ 6.70 On March 14, 2005, the closing price of TIMET common stock was $36.14 per share. As of March 14, 2005, there were 279 shareholders of record of TIMET common stock, which the Company estimates represent approximately 6,900 actual shareholders. In October 2002, the Company exercised its right to defer future interest payments on TIMETs 6.625% Convertible Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2026 ("Subordinated Debentures") held by the TIMET Capital Trust I (the "Capital Trust"), effective for the December 1, 2002 scheduled interest payment. Interest continued to accrue at the 6.625% coupon rate on the principal and unpaid interest until the Companys Board of Directors approved resumption of scheduled quarterly interest payments on the Subordinated Debentures beginning with the payment on June 1, 2004. The Companys Board also approved payment of all previously deferred interest on the Subordinated Debentures. On April 15, 2004, the Company paid the deferred interest in the amount of $21.7 million, $21.0 million of which related to the 6.625% mandatorily redeemable convertible preferred securities, beneficial unsecured convertible securities ("BUCS") issued by the Capital Trust. 18 In August 2004, the Company completed an exchange offer pursuant to which the Company had offered to exchange all of the 4,024,820 outstanding BUCS issued by the Capital Trust for shares of the Companys 6.75% Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (the "Series A Preferred Stock") at the exchange rate of one share of Series A Preferred Stock for each BUCS. Based upon the 3,909,103 BUCS tendered and accepted for exchange as of the close of the offer on August 31, 2004, the Company issued 3,909,103 shares of Series A Preferred Stock in exchange for such BUCS. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to receive cumulative cash dividends at the rate of 6.75% of the $50 per share liquidation preference per annum per share (equivalent to $3.375 per annum per share), when, as and if declared by the Companys board of directors. During the third quarter of 2004, the Company recognized a $15.5 million non cash, non operating gain related to the BUCS exchange. See Notes 12 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Companys U.S. credit agreement prohibits the payment of dividends on the Companys common stock or the payment of distributions on the BUCS if excess availability, as determined under the agreement, is less than $25 million. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 19 ITEM 6: SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The selected financial data set forth below should be read in conjunction with the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7 MD&A. Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 ($ in millions, except per share and selling price data) STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA: Net sales $ 501.8 $ 385.3 $ 366.5 $ 486.9 $ 426.8 Gross margin $ 55.9 $ 17.0 $ (3.1) $ 39.9 $ 3.9 Operating income (loss) (1) $ 35.3 $ 5.4 $ (20.8) $ 64.5 $ (41.7) Interest expense $ 12.5 $ 16.4 $ 17.1 $ 18.3 $ 21.5 Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders(1) $ 35.5 $ (13.1) $ (111.5) $ (41.8) $ (38.9) Earnings (loss) per share: Basic (1)(2) $ 2.24 $ (0.82) $ (7.06) $ (2.65) $ (2.48) Diluted (1)(2) $ 2.20 $ (0.82) $ (7.06) $ (2.65) $ (2.48) BALANCE SHEET DATA: Cash and cash equivalents (3) $ 7.9 $ 37.3 $ 6.4 $ 24.5 $ 9.8 Total assets (1) $ 665.5 $ 567.4 $ 570.1 $ 705.6 $ 765.7 Bank indebtedness (4) $ 43.2 $ $ 19.4 $ 12.4 $ 44.9 Capital lease obligations $ 0.2 $ 10.3 $ 10.2 $ 8.9 $ 8.8 Debt payable to Capital Trust $ 12.0 $ 207.5 $ 207.5 $ 207.5 $ 207.5 Stockholders equity $ 379.7 $ 158.8 $ 159.4 $ 298.1 $ 357.5 OTHER OPERATING DATA: Cash flows provided (used) by: Operating activities $ (22.4) $ 65.8 $ (13.6) $ 62.6 $ 65.4 Investing activities (44.5) (14.5) (7.5) (16.1) (4.2) Financing activities 38.7 (22.1) 3.6 (31.4) (72.8) Net cash (used) provided $ (28.2) $ 29.2 $ (17.5) $ 15.1 $ (11.6) Melted product shipments (5) 5.4 4.7 2.4 4.4 3.5 Average melted product prices (5) $ 13.45 $ 12.15 $ 14.50 $ 14.50 $ 13.65 Mill product shipments (5) 11.4 8.9 8.9 12.2 11.4 Average mill product prices (5) $ 32.05 $ 31.50 $ 31.40 $ 29.80 $ 28.70 Active employees at December 31 2,227 2,055 1,956 2,410 2,220 Order backlog at December 31(6) $ 450.0 $ 205.0 $ 185.0 $ 240.0 $ 265.0 Capital expenditures $ 23.6 $ 12.5 $ 7.8 $ 16.1 $ 11.2 (1) See the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7 MD&A for items that materially affect the 2004, 2003 and 2002 periods. In 2001, the Company recorded (i) net other operating income of $73 million related to the settlement of litigation between TIMET and The Boeing Company, (ii) a $10.8 million pre tax equipment impairment charge to cost of sales, (iii) a $3.3 million charge to cost of sales for costs related to a tungsten inclusion matter and (iv) a $61.5 million pre tax impairment charge to other non operating expense related to the Companys investment in Special Metals Corporation preferred securities. In 2000, the Company recorded (i) a $2.0 million gain on the termination of a sponge purchase agreement with Union Titanium Sponge Corporation at the operating income (loss) level, (ii) a $1.2 million gain on the sale of a castings joint venture at the non operating income (loss) level and (iii) a $1.3 million loss on early extinguishment of debt at the non operating income (loss) level. (2) Amounts have been adjusted to reflect the Companys five for one stock split, which became effective after the close of trading on August 27, 2004 and the Companys one for ten reverse stock split, which became effective after the close of trading on February 14, 2003. (3) Includes restricted cash and cash equivalents of $0.7 million in 2004, $2.2 million in 2003 and $0.1 million in each of 2002, 2001 and 2000. (4) Bank indebtedness represents notes payable and current and noncurrent debt. (5) Shipments in thousands of metric tons. Average selling prices stated per kilogram. (6) Order backlog is defined as unfilled purchase orders (including those under consignment arrangements) which are generally subject to deferral or cancellation by the customer under certain conditions. 20 ITEM 7: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview. The Company estimates that aggregate shipment volumes for titanium mill products in 2004 was derived from the following markets: TIMET Titanium Industry (1) Mill product Mill product shipments % of total shipments % of total (Metric tons) (Metric tons) Aerospace: Commercial aerospace 6,575 58% 20,900 34% Military aerospace 1,395 12% 4,000 6% Total aerospace 7,970 70% 24,900 40% Industrial 2,770 24% 33,900 55% Emerging 625 6% 3,000 5% 11,365 100% 61,800 100% (1) Estimates based on the Companys industry experience and information obtained from publicly available external resources (e.g., United States Geological Survey, International Titanium Association and Japan Titanium Society). The titanium industry derives a substantial portion of its demand from the aerospace industry, particularly the highly cyclical commercial aerospace sector. As shown in the table, the Companys business is more dependent on aerospace demand than is the overall titanium industry, and the Companys sales growth during 2004 has benefited from growth in the commercial aerospace sector during this same period. Increased sales revenue, however, has been somewhat offset by increased costs. As a result of higher raw material costs and increasing book inventories during 2004, partially offset by increased capacity utilization, the Companys LIFO inventory reserve increased at the end of 2004 as compared to 2003, resulting in a charge to cost of sales of $7.8 million for the full year 2004. Conversely, during 2003, the Companys successful cost reduction efforts and increased capacity utilization provided for lower unit costs, which, when coupled with decreasing book inventories, reduced the Companys LIFO inventory reserve at the end of 2003 as compared to the end of 2002, resulting in a reduction to cost of sales of $11.4 million in 2003. In August 2004, the Company completed an exchange offer, pursuant to which the Company had offered to exchange all of the 4,024,820 outstanding BUCS issued by the Capital Trust for shares of the Companys Series A Preferred Stock at the exchange rate of one share of Series A Preferred Stock for each BUCS. Based upon the 3,909,103 BUCS tendered and accepted for exchange as of the close of the offer on August 31, 2004, the Company issued 3,909,103 shares of Series A Preferred Stock in exchange for such BUCS. During the third quarter of 2004, the Company recognized a $15.5 million non cash, non operating gain related to the BUCS exchange. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 21 During 2004, the Company recorded $13.6 million ($10.8 million to cost of sales and $2.8 million to selling, general, administrative and development expense) related to certain employee incentive compensation payments expected to be made in 2005 for service in 2004. Comparably, the Company accrued $0.4 million in 2003 related to incentive compensation payments made in 2004 for service in 2003. The increase in incentive compensation expenses in 2004 is primarily due to the Companys improved financial performance during the year. Summarized financial information. The following table summarizes certain information regarding the Companys results of operations for the past three years. Average selling prices, as reported by the Company, are a reflection not just of actual selling prices received by the Company, but also include other related factors such as currency exchange rates and customer and product mix in a given period. Consequently, changes in average selling prices from period to period will be impacted by changes occurring not just in actual prices, but by these other factors as well. The percentage change information presented below represents changes from the respective prior year. See "Results of Operations Outlook" for further discussion of the Companys business expectations for 2005. Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 ($ in thousands, except product shipment data) Net sales: Melted products $ 72,092 $ 57,409 $ 34,800 Mill products 364,248 279,563 278,204 Other products 65,488 55,132 53,497 Other (1) (6,800) Net sales $ 501,828 $ 385,304 $ 366,501 Gross margin 55,918 17,030 (3,123) Gross margin percent of net sales 11% 4% 1% Melted products shipments: Volume (metric tons) 5,360 4,725 2,400 Average selling prices ($ per kilogram) $ 13.45 $ 12.15 $ 14.50 Mill products shipments: Volume (metric tons) 11,365 8,875 8,860 Average selling prices ($ per kilogram) $ 32.05 $ 31.50 $ 31.40 Percentage change in: Sales volume: Melted products +13 +97 46 Mill products +28 27 Average selling prices: Melted products +11 16 Mill products +2 +5 Selling prices excludes changes in product mix: Melted products +7 12 1 Mill products in U.S. dollars +6 3 +4 Mill products in billing currencies (2) +2 7 +3 (1) Represents the effect of a $6.8 million reduction to sales related to the termination of a purchase and sale agreement with Wyman Gordon. See "Results of Operations 2004 operations." (2) Excludes the effect of changes in foreign currencies. 22 Based upon the terms of the Companys LTA with Boeing, the Company receives an annual $28.5 million (less $3.80 per pound of titanium product sold to Boeing subcontractors in the preceding year) customer advance from Boeing in January of each year related to Boeings purchases from TIMET for that year. This advance continues through 2007. The terms of the LTA allow Boeing to purchase up to 7.5 million pounds of titanium product annually from TIMET through 2007, but limit TIMETs maximum quarterly volume obligation to 3.0 million pounds, only 40% of which may be ingot. The LTA is structured as a take or pay agreement such that, beginning in calendar year 2002, Boeing forfeits $3.80 per pound of its advance payment in the event that its orders for delivery are less than 7.5 million pounds in any given calendar year. The Company recognizes income to the extent Boeings year to date orders for delivery plus TIMETs maximum quarterly volume obligations for the remainder of the year total less than 7.5 million pounds. This income is recognized as other operating income and is not included in sales revenue, sales volume or gross margin. Based on actual purchases of approximately 1.7 million pounds during 2004, the Company recognized $22.1 million of take or pay income for the year ended December 31, 2004. The Company recognized $23.1 million and $23.4 million of such income during 2003 and 2002, respectively. Had the Company not benefited from such provisions, the Companys results would have been as follows: Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Operating income (loss), as reported $ 35,277 $ 5,432 $ (20,849) Less take or pay income 22,093 23,083 23,408 Operating income (loss), excluding take or pay $ 13,184 $ (17,651) $ (44,257) Net income (loss) attributable to common $ 35,540 $ (13,057) $ (111,530) stockholders, as reported Less take or pay income 22,093 23,083 23,408 Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders, excluding take or pay $ 13,447 $ (36,140) $ (134,938) 2004 operations. Melted product sales increased 26% and mill product sales increased 30% during 2004 as compared to 2003, principally as a result of increased sales volume due to greater market demand and or share gains across all markets. More specifically, large commercial aircraft deliveries increased from 575 in 2003 to 602 in 2004, and 2005 deliveries are expected to be 680 aircraft. As previously discussed, a substantial portion of the Companys business is tied to the commercial aerospace industry, and sales of titanium generally precede aircraft deliveries by about one year. Therefore, the Companys 2004 net sales have significantly benefited from the increase in production of large commercial aircraft scheduled for delivery in 2005. Average selling prices use actual customer and product mix and foreign currency exchange rates prevailing during the respective periods. The Companys melted products are generally sold only in U.S. dollars. Melted product average selling prices during 2004, as compared to 2003, were positively affected by current market conditions and changes in customer and product mix. Mill product average selling prices during 2004, as compared to 2003, were positively affected by the weakening of the U.S. dollar compared to both the British pound sterling and the euro and negatively affected by changes in customer and product mix. 23 Gross margin (net sales less cost of sales) increased during 2004 as compared to 2003 primarily as a result of improved plant operating rates (from 56% during 2003 to 73% during 2004), partially offset by increased raw material costs and higher energy costs. Gross margin during 2004 was also impacted by: o A $1.6 million reduction in cost of sales related to the modification of the Companys vacation policy. On January 1, 2004, the Company modified its vacation policy for its U.S. salaried employees, whereby such employees no longer accrue their entire years vacation entitlement on January 1, but rather accrue the current years vacation entitlement over the course of the year; o A $10.8 million charge to cost of sales related to the accrual of previously discussed employee incentive compensation payments expected to be made for 2004; and o A $7.8 million charge to cost of sales related to the previously discussed increase in the Companys LIFO inventory reserve. Comparatively, gross margin during 2003 was impacted by: o An $11.4 million reduction in cost of sales related to the previously discussed decrease in the Companys LIFO inventory reserve; o A $1.7 million reduction in cost of sales related to a revision of the Companys estimate of probable loss associated with a previously reported tungsten inclusion matter; and o A $6.8 million reduction in sales related to the termination of a purchase and sale agreement with Wyman Gordon. Concurrently, the Company and Wyman Gordon entered into new long term purchase and sale agreements covering the sale of TIMET products to various Wyman Gordon locations through 2008. Selling, general, administrative and development expenses increased 23%, from $36.4 million during 2003 to $44.9 million during 2004, principally as a result of (i) a $2.8 million accrual related to certain employee incentive compensation payments expected to be made in 2005, (ii) $2.0 million of additional auditing and consulting costs relative to the Companys compliance with the Sarbanes Oxley Acts internal control requirements and (iii) $1.0 million of increased costs related to the Companys intercompany services agreement with Contran Corporation ("Contran"). Equity in earnings of joint ventures increased 183%, from $0.5 million during 2003 to $1.3 million during 2004, due to an increase in the operating results of VALTIMET, the Companys minority owned welded tube joint venture. Net other operating income (expense) decreased 6% from income of $24.4 million during 2003 to income of $23.0 million during 2004, principally due to a decrease in the amount of previously discussed take or pay income recognized by the Company during 2004. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 24 2003 operations. Melted product sales increased 65%, principally as a result of new customer relationships, share gains and changes in product mix during 2003 as compared to 2002. Mill product sales remained relatively flat during 2003 as compared to 2002, as average selling prices and sales volumes were relatively unchanged. Mill product average selling prices were positively affected during 2003 by the weakening of the U.S. dollar compared to the British pound sterling and the euro. Gross margin increased during 2003 as compared to 2002 primarily as a result of the Companys cost reduction efforts, slightly improved plant operating rates (from 55% during 2002 to 56% during 2003) and favorable raw material mix. Additionally, as previously discussed, the Companys LIFO inventory reserve decreased at the end of 2003 as compared to the end of 2002, resulting in a reduction in cost of sales of $11.4 million in 2003. This compared with an increase in the Companys LIFO inventory reserve at the end of 2002 compared to the end of 2001, for which the Company increased cost of sales by $9.3 million in 2002. Gross margin during 2003 was also positively impacted by the previously discussed $1.7 million reduction in cost of sales related to a tungsten inclusion matter. Gross margin during 2003 was adversely impacted by the previously discussed $6.8 million reduction in sales relating to the termination of the Wyman Gordon agreement. Selling, general, administrative and development expenses decreased 15% from $43.0 million during 2002 to $36.4 million during 2003, principally as a result of lower personnel and travel costs, as well as focused cost control in other administrative areas. Equity in earnings of joint ventures decreased 77% from $2.0 million during 2002 to $0.5 million during 2003, principally due to a decrease in the operating results of VALTIMET. Net other operating income (expense) increased 5% from income of $23.3 million during 2002 to income of $24.4 million during 2003, principally due to gains of $0.5 million and $0.6 million related to the settlement of certain litigation in the first quarter and fourth quarters, respectively, of 2003. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Non operating income (expense). Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (In thousands) Interest expense on bank debt $ (2,649) $ (2,017) $ (3,381) Interest expense on debt payable to the Capital Trust (9,802) (14,402) (13,763) $ (12,451) $ (16,419) $ (17,144) Dividends and interest income $ 687 $ 383 $ 118 Equity in earnings of common securities of the Capital Trust 424 432 413 Gain on BUCS exchange, net 15,465 Impairment of investment in Special Metals Corporation ("SMC") preferred securities (27,500) Surety bond guarantee credit (expense) 221 (449) (1,575) Foreign exchange loss, net (477) (189) (587) Other, net (121) (471) (762) $ 16,199 $ (294) $ (29,893) 25 Interest expense on bank debt for 2004 increased 31% compared to 2003 primarily due to higher average outstanding borrowings during 2004 compared to 2003, which the Company used primarily to support its accumulation of inventory to meet expected customer demand during 2005. Interest expense on bank debt for 2003 decreased 40% compared to 2002, primarily due to lower average outstanding borrowings, as the Company generated positive cash flow from operations and was able to reduce its bank borrowings to zero by year end 2003. Prior to 2004, annual interest expense on the Companys debt payable to the Capital Trust approximated $13.7 million, exclusive of any accrued interest on deferred interest payments. On September 1, 2004, the Company exchanged 97.1% of its outstanding BUCS for its Series A Preferred Stock, resulting in a $15.5 million non cash, non operating gain (see "Liquidity and Capital Resources Other" and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Interest expense related to the remaining debt payable to the Capital Trust ($12.0 million at December 31, 2004) is approximately $0.8 million per year. Dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock will approximate the reduction of interest expense on debt payable to the Capital Trust in determining income attributable to common stockholders. During 2002, the Company exercised its right to defer interest payments on the Subordinated Debentures, effective for the December 1, 2002 scheduled interest payment. Interest continued to accrue at the 6.625% coupon rate on the principal and unpaid interest until the Companys Board of Directors approved resumption of scheduled quarterly interest payments on the Subordinated Debentures beginning with the payment on June 1, 2004. The Companys Board also approved payment of all previously deferred interest on the Subordinated Debentures. On April 15, 2004, the Company paid the deferred interest in the amount of $21.7 million, $21.0 million of which related to the BUCS. Dividends and interest income during 2004 consisted of dividends received on the Companys investments in marketable securities and interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents. Dividends and interest income during 2003 and 2002 consisted solely of interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents. In March 2002, SMC and its U.S. subsidiaries filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. As a result, the Company undertook a further assessment of its investment in SMC and subsequently recorded a $27.5 million impairment charge during the first quarter of 2002, which reduced the Companys carrying amount of its investment in the SMC securities to zero. This charge was classified as other non operating expense. Under the terms of SMCs Second Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization, approved by the Bankruptcy Court in 2003, the convertible preferred securities were cancelled. Although the Company does have certain rights as an unsecured creditor under the SMC Plan of Reorganization related to the unpaid dividends, the Company does not believe that it will recover any material amount from this investment. TIMET is the primary obligor on two $1.5 million workers compensation bonds issued on behalf of a former subsidiary, Freedom Forge Corporation ("Freedom Forge"), which TIMET sold in 1989. Freedom Forge filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in 2001, and discontinued payment on the underlying workers compensation claims. During 2002, TIMET received notices that the issuers of the bonds were required to make payments on the first bond with respect to certain of these claims and were requesting reimbursement from TIMET. As of December 31, 2004, the Company has made aggregate payments under the two bonds of $1.1 million, and $0.6 million remains accrued for future payments. TIMET may revise its estimated liability under these bonds in the future as additional facts become known or claims develop. 26 Income taxes. The Company operates in several tax jurisdictions and is subject to varying income tax rates. As a result, the geographic mix of pretax income or loss can impact the Companys overall effective tax rate. For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Companys income tax rate varied from the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to changes in the deferred income tax valuation allowance related to the Companys tax attributes with respect to the "more likely than not" recognition criteria during those periods. The Company did not recognize a deferred tax benefit related to its 2002 or 2003 U.S. losses and, accordingly, increased its U.S. deferred tax valuation allowance by $40.2 million in 2002 and by $0.2 million in 2003. During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company recorded a charge to other comprehensive loss to reflect an increase in its U.K. minimum pension liability. The related tax effect of this charge resulted in the Companys shifting from a net deferred tax liability position to a net deferred tax asset position. Based on the Companys recent history of U.K. losses, its near term outlook and managements evaluation of available tax planning strategies, the Company determined that it would not recognize this deferred tax asset because it did not meet the "more likely than not" recognition criteria and recorded a U.K. deferred tax asset valuation allowance of $7.2 million through other comprehensive income. Additionally, the Company determined that it would not recognize deferred tax benefits related either to future U.K. losses or future increases in U.K. minimum pension liabilities for an uncertain period of time. Accordingly, the Company increased its U.K. deferred tax valuation allowance by $5.5 million in 2003. During 2004, the Companys deferred income tax asset valuation allowance related to income from continuing operations decreased by $13.7 million primarily due to the utilization of the U.S. and U.K. net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards, the benefit of which had previously not met the "more likely than not" recognition criteria. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had cumulative valuation allowances in the U.S. and U.K. of approximately $80.8 million offsetting its deferred income tax assets, primarily related to net operating loss carryforwards, capital loss carryforwards, minimum pension liability and other temporary differences. The Company has concluded that the benefit from these items does not currently meet the "more likely than not" recognition criteria, in part because the Company has not demonstrated a recent pattern of taxable income for a time period sufficient to overcome the negative evidence generated by prior operating losses. The Company will continue to monitor and evaluate these deferred income tax asset valuation allowances in light of all available evidence, and it is possible that at some point in the future the Company will conclude that the weight of positive evidence is sufficient to support reversal of some or all of its valuation allowances. The Company periodically reviews its deferred income tax assets to determine if future realization is more likely than not. During the third quarter of 2004, due to a change in estimate of the Companys ability to utilize the benefits of its NOL carryforwards in Germany, the Company determined that its deferred income tax asset in Germany now meets the "more likely than not" recognition criteria. Accordingly, the Company reversed the $0.7 million valuation allowance attributable to such deferred income tax asset. During the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company recognized a deferred income tax benefit related to a $4.2 million decrease in the Companys U.S. deferred income tax asset valuation allowance attributable to the Companys recognition, for U.S. income tax purposes only, of a capital gain on the fourth quarter sale of certain property located at the Companys Henderson, Nevada facility (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The Company expects to recognize a corresponding deferred income tax expense in 2005, when the gain is recognized under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. 27 In October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 was enacted into law. The new law provides for a special 85% deduction for certain dividends received in 2005 from controlled foreign corporations. Because certain details in the new law lack clarification, and the impact of the special dividend received deduction to the Company is dependent, in part, on the Companys 2005 foreign and domestic taxable income, the Company has not yet determined whether it will benefit from the new law. In 2005, the Company plans to evaluate both clarifying guidance on the new law from the Internal Revenue Service and its year to date taxable income activity to determine the level of benefit, if any, the Company will derive from the special dividend received deduction. Beginning in 2005, the new law also provides for a special deduction from U.S. taxable income equal to a stipulated percentage of a U.S. companys qualified income from domestic manufacturing activities (as defined). Although the Company believes that the majority of its operations meet the definition of qualified domestic manufacturing activities, the Company does not expect to benefit from the special manufacturing deduction in 2005, primarily because the Company projects its U.S. taxable income in 2005 will be fully offset by its existing U.S. NOL carryforwards. During the first quarter of 2002, the Job Creation and Worker Assistance Act of 2002 (the "JCWA Act") was signed into law. The Company benefited from provisions of the JCWA Act, which liberalized certain net operating loss and alternative minimum tax restrictions. As a result, the Company recognized $1.8 million of refundable U.S. income taxes during the first quarter of 2002. The Company received $0.8 million of this refund in the fourth quarter of 2002 and the remaining $1.0 million in the third quarter of 2003. See also Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Dividends on Series A Preferred Stock. Shares of the Companys Series A Preferred Stock are convertible, at any time, at the option of the holder thereof, into one and two thirds shares of the Companys common stock, subject to adjustment in certain events. The Series A Preferred Stock is not mandatorily redeemable, but is redeemable at the option of the Company at any time after the third anniversary of the date of issuance if, prior to the notice of such redemption, the closing price of the Companys common stock exceeds the conversion price for 30 consecutive days. When, as and if declared by the Companys board of directors, holders of the Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to receive cumulative cash dividends at the rate of 6.75% of the $50 per share liquidation preference per annum per share (equivalent to $3.375 per annum per share). The Company paid dividends of $3.3 million to holders of the Series A Preferred Stock during 2004. Subsequent to December 31, 2004, the Companys board of directors declared a dividend of $0.84375 per share, payable on March 15, 2005 to holders of record of Series A Preferred Stock as of the close of trading on March 1, 2005. Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle. On January 1, 2003, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, and recognized (i) an asset retirement cost capitalized as an increase to the carrying value of its property, plant and equipment of approximately $0.2 million, (ii) accumulated depreciation on such capitalized cost of approximately $0.1 million and (iii) a liability for the asset retirement obligation of approximately $0.3 million. The asset retirement obligation recognized relates primarily to landfill closure and leasehold restoration costs. 28 In 2002, the Company completed an impairment assessment of its goodwill and intangible assets upon its adoption of SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, in 2002. Management judgment was used to identify the Companys reporting units, determine the carrying amount of each reporting unit by assigning its assets and liabilities, including existing goodwill and intangible assets, to those reporting units as of January 1, 2002, and determine the implied fair value of its goodwill. This evaluation considered, among other things, a combination of fair value indicators including quoted market prices, prices of comparable businesses and discounted projected cash flows based upon Company forecasts, which considered information obtained from review of The Airline Monitor and from discussions with the Companys customers throughout the first half of 2002, both of which assisted the Company in better estimating the impact of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on its business. As a result of this information, step one of the impairment evaluation completed in the second quarter of 2002 indicated that the Companys recorded goodwill might be impaired, which obligated the Company to complete the second step of the impairment test. Based on the results of the second step of the impairment test completed during the third quarter of 2002, which indicated the Companys goodwill was impaired, the Company recorded a non cash goodwill impairment charge of $44.3 million, representing the entire balance of the Companys recorded goodwill at January 1, 2002. See further discussion regarding the Companys adoption of these accounting principles in Notes 2 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. European operations. The Company has substantial operations located in Europe, principally in the United Kingdom, France and Italy. Approximately 43% of the Companys sales revenue originated in Europe in 2004, of which approximately 61% was denominated in the British pound sterling or the euro. Certain purchases of raw materials, principally titanium sponge and alloys, for the Companys European operations are denominated in U.S. dollars, while labor and other production costs are primarily denominated in local currencies. The functional currencies of the Companys European subsidiaries are those of their respective countries, and the European subsidiaries are subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may impact reported earnings and may affect the comparability of period to period operating results. Borrowings of the Companys European operations may be in U.S. dollars or in functional currencies. The Companys export sales from the U.S. are denominated in U.S. dollars and as such are not subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations. The Company does not use currency contracts to hedge its currency exposures. Net currency transaction losses included in results of operations were $0.5 million in 2004, $0.2 million in 2003 and $0.6 million in 2002. At December 31, 2004, consolidated assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currencies were approximately $39.7 million and $35.0 million, respectively, consisting primarily of U.S. dollar cash, accounts receivable and accounts payable. VALTIMET has entered into certain derivative financial instruments that qualify as cash flow hedges under GAAP. The Companys pro rata share of VALTIMETs unrealized net gains on such derivative financial instruments is included as a component of other comprehensive income. Related party transactions. The Company is a party to certain transactions with related parties. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 29 Outlook. The Outlook section contains a number of forward looking statements, all of which are based on current expectations and exclude the effect of potential future charges related to restructurings, asset impairments, valuation allowances, changes in accounting principles and similar items, unless otherwise noted. Undue reliance should not be placed on these statements, as more fully discussed in the "Forward Looking Information" statement of this Annual Report. Actual results may differ materially. See also Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements regarding commitments, contingencies, legal matters, environmental matters and other matters, including new accounting principles, which could materially affect the Companys future business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. In 2004, TIMET returned to full year profitability for the first time since 1998. This was primarily achieved due to significant increases in demand for the Companys products into all markets, as well as continued focus on controlling costs. The Company is encouraged by what it expects for the near future, with prices for its products continuing to rise, build rates of commercial aircraft forecasted to increase, and greater potential for increases in several emerging markets, including military armor, energy and automotive applications. Over the past several quarters, the Company has seen the availability of raw materials tighten, and, consequently, the prices for such raw materials increase. The Company currently expects that a shortage in raw materials is likely to continue throughout 2005 and into 2006, which could limit the Companys ability to produce enough titanium products to fully meet customer demand. In addition, TIMET has certain customer long term agreements that limit the Companys ability to pass on all of its increased raw material costs. The Company currently expects its 2005 net sales revenue to range from $650 million to $680 million, which is an increase of 30% to 36% from 2004. Mill product sales volume, which was 11,365 metric tons in 2004, is expected to range from 13,600 and 14,300 metric tons in 2005, an increase of 20% to 26%. Melted product sales volume, which was 5,360 metric tons in 2004, is expected to range from 5,400 and 5,700 metric tons in 2005, an increase of 1% to 6%. The Company also expects mill product average selling prices to increase by 10% to 15% in 2005, as compared to 2004, and melted product average selling prices to increase from 17% to 22% in 2005, as compared to 2004. The Companys cost of sales is affected by a number of factors including customer and product mix, material yields, plant operating rates, raw material costs, labor and energy costs. Raw material costs, which include sponge, scrap and alloys, represent the largest portion of the Companys manufacturing cost structure, and, as previously discussed, continued cost increases are expected during 2005. Scrap and certain alloy prices have more than doubled from year ago prices, and increased energy costs also continue to have a negative impact on gross margin. In addition, the Companys cost of sales can be significantly affected by adjustments to its LIFO inventory reserve, as was the case during 2004 and 2003. The Company currently expects production volumes to continue to increase in 2005, with overall capacity utilization expected to approximate 75% to 80% in 2005 (as compared to 73% in 2004). However, practical capacity utilization measures can vary significantly based on product mix. Current expectations are that gross margin during 2005 will range from 11% to 13% of net sales. Selling, general, administrative and development expenses is expected to increase from $45 million during 2004 to approximately $48 million during 2005, or from 7.1% to 7.4% of projected net sales, which is a decrease from 8.9% of net sales in 2004. 30 The Company anticipates that Boeing will purchase a significantly higher amount of titanium during 2005 as compared to 2004 and, therefore, expects the amount of take or pay income recognized during 2005 to decrease to between $15 million and $20 million. The take or pay income will continue to be reported as operating income, but will not be included in sales revenue, sales volume or gross margin. The Company presently expects operating income for 2005 of $50 million to $65 million, which represents a 42% to 84% increase from operating income earned in 2004. Dividends on the Companys Series A Preferred Stock should approximate $13.2 million in 2005. The Company expects net income attributable to common stockholders to range from $35 million to $50 million. These net income estimates include a $12.6 million non operating gain related to the sale of certain property adjacent to the Companys Henderson, Nevada plant site to Basic Management, Inc. and certain affiliates ("BMI"), a 32% owned subsidiary of Valhi. This gain is primarily comprised of (i) $12.0 million in cash received upon closing of the sale (in November 2004) and (ii) the anticipated reversal of a $0.6 million accrual currently recorded by the Company for potential environmental issues related to the property, which obligation will be assumed by BMI. This gain has been deferred and will be recognized when the Company completes its construction of a wastewater treatment facility on its Henderson plant site and can cease use of certain settling ponds located on the property sold to BMI. The Company currently expects the wastewater treatment facility to be completed and operational in the second quarter of 2005. These net income estimates exclude a net income tax benefit of $35 million to $40 million that the Company may recognize during 2005 if a reversal of a portion of the Companys deferred tax asset valuation allowance with respect to its U.S. and U.K. net operating loss carryforwards is determined to be appropriate under the more likely than not recognition criteria. The Company currently expects to generate $50 million to $60 million in cash flow from operations during 2005. Capital expenditures during 2005 are expected to approximate $42 million. The increased spending over 2004 primarily reflects the remaining $13 million related to construction of the wastewater treatment facility, as well as additional capacity improvements as the Company continues to prepare for increased demand by certain customers under long term agreements. Depreciation and amortization should approximate $32 million in 2005. The Company currently expects to make contributions of approximately $8.2 million to its defined benefit pension plans during 2005, and expects pension expense to approximate $8.1 million in 2005. 31 Non GAAP financial measures. In an effort to provide investors with information in addition to the Companys results as determined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"), the Company has provided the following non GAAP financial disclosures that it believes may provide useful information to investors: o The Company discloses percentage changes in its mill and melted product selling prices in U.S. dollars, which have been adjusted to exclude the effects of changes in product mix. The Company believes such disclosure provides useful information to investors by allowing them to analyze such changes without the impact of changes in product mix, thereby facilitating period to period comparisons of the relative changes in average selling prices. Depending on the composition of changes in product mix, the percentage change in selling prices excluding the effect of changes in product mix can be higher or lower than such percentage change would be using the actual product mix prevailing during the respective periods; o In addition to disclosing percentage changes in its mill product selling prices adjusted to exclude the effects of changes in product mix, the Company also discloses such percentage changes in billing currencies, which also excludes the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company believes such disclosure provides useful information to investors by allowing them to analyze such changes without the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period to period comparisons of the relative changes in average selling prices in the various actual billing currencies. Generally, when the U.S. dollar strengthens (weakens) against other currencies, the percentage change in selling prices in billing currencies will be higher (lower) than such percentage changes would be using actual exchange rates prevailing during the respective periods; and o The Company discloses operating income and net income excluding the impact of the Boeing take or pay income. The Company believes this provides investors with useful information to better analyze the Companys business and possible future earnings during periods after December 31, 2007, at which time the Company will no longer receive the positive effects of the take or pay income. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The Companys consolidated cash flows for each of the past three years are presented below. The following should be read in conjunction with the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto. Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (In thousands) Cash (used) provided by: Operating activities $ (22,433) $ 65,821 $ (13,595) Investing activities (44,528) (14,534) (7,467) Financing activities 38,742 (22,068) 3,523 Net cash (used) provided by operating, investing and financing activities $ (28,219) $ 29,219 $ (17,539) 32 Operating activities. The titanium industry historically has derived a substantial portion of its business from the aerospace industry. The aerospace industry is cyclical, and changes in economic conditions within the aerospace industry significantly impact the Companys earnings and operating cash flows. Cash flow from operations has been a primary source of the Companys liquidity. Changes in titanium pricing, production volume and customer demand, among other things, could significantly affect the Companys liquidity. Certain items included in the determination of net loss have an impact on cash flows from operating activities, but the impact of such items on cash may differ from their impact on net loss. For example, pension expense and OPEB expense will generally differ from the outflows of cash for payment of such benefits. In addition, relative changes in assets and liabilities generally result from the timing of production, sales and purchases. Such relative changes can significantly impact the comparability of cash flow from operations from period to period, as the income statement impact of such items may occur in a different period than that in which the underlying cash transaction occurs. For example, raw materials may be purchased in one period, but the cash payment for such raw materials may occur in a subsequent period. Similarly, inventory may be sold in one period, but the cash collection of the receivable may occur in a subsequent period. The Companys bottom line increased from a net loss attributable to common stockholders of $13.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 to net income attributable to common stockholders of $35.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Accounts receivable increased during 2004 primarily due to increased sales, as fourth quarter 2004 net sales, the primary source of the year end accounts receivable balance, increased 36% over the year ago period. Accounts receivable decreased during 2003 primarily due to improved collection efforts with the Companys customers, partially offset by the weakening of the U.S. dollar compared to the British pound sterling and the euro. Accounts receivable decreased significantly during 2002 primarily as a result of reduced sales, partially offset by an increase in aging of accounts as certain customers extended their payment terms to the Company in response to unfavorable economic conditions. Inventories increased during 2004 as a result of increased run rates and related inventory build in order to meet expected customer demand during 2005, as well as the effects of increased raw material costs. These increases were partially offset by a $7.8 million increase in the Companys LIFO reserve at December 31, 2004. Inventories decreased during 2003 primarily due to the Companys concentrated focus on inventory reduction during 2003, partially offset by a decrease in the Companys LIFO inventory reserve of $11.4 million. Inventories decreased during 2002 primarily as a result of reduced production in the fourth quarter of 2002, a $9.3 million increase in the Companys LIFO inventory reserve and an increase in the Companys reserves for excess inventories, which the Company recorded in response to decreased demand for its products and other changes in business conditions. 33 Changes in accounts payable and accrued liabilities reflect, among other things, the timing of payments to suppliers of titanium sponge, titanium scrap and other raw material purchases. Accrued liabilities increased during 2004 primarily due to (i) a $12.0 million net increase in the Companys accrual for incentive compensation for potential employee profit sharing payments to be made in 2005 and (ii) a $1.1 million increase to the Companys accrual for costs expected to be incurred for environmental remediation at the Companys Henderson, Nevada facility. These increases were partially offset by (i) payment of the $2.8 million final installment related to termination of the prior Wyman Gordon agreement, (ii) a $1.9 million reduction of the Companys vacation accrual related to the Companys modification of its vacation policy for its U.S salaried employees and (iii) a $3.5 million reclassification of the Companys U.S. defined benefit pension liability from current to noncurrent, as the Companys short term cash contribution requirements decreased significantly. Pursuant to an agreement between TIMET and Boeing, Boeing advances TIMET $28.5 million annually less $3.80 per pound of titanium product purchased by Boeing subcontractors during the preceding year. The Company received a $27.9 million advance for 2005 in January 2005, a $27.9 million advance for 2004 in January 2004 and a $27.7 million advance for 2003 in January 2003. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. During the first quarter of 2002, the Company recorded a $27.5 million impairment charge to its investment in the preferred securities of SMC, which reduced the carrying amount of such investment to zero. See "Results of Operations Non operating income (expense)" for further discussion of the Companys investment in SMC. See "Results of Operations Income taxes" for discussion of the Companys income taxes. In October 2002, the Company exercised its right to defer future interest payments on its Subordinated Debentures held by the Capital Trust, effective beginning with the Companys December 1, 2002 scheduled interest payment, although interest continued to accrue at the coupon rate on the principal and unpaid interest. On April 15, 2004, the Company paid all previously deferred and accrued interest in the amount of $21.7 million ($21.0 million of which related to the BUCS) and on June 1, 2004, the Company resumed its quarterly interest payments on the Subordinated Debentures. Changes in accrued interest on debt payable to the Capital Trust reflect this activity. Investing activities. During 2004, the Company purchased 2,549,520 shares of CompX International, Inc. ("CompX") Class A common stock for $32.0 million and 222,100 shares of NL Industries, Inc. ("NL") common stock for $2.5 million. See further discussion in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Companys capital expenditures were $23.6 million in 2004, $12.5 million in 2003 and $7.8 million in 2002, principally for replacement of machinery and equipment and for capacity maintenance. Additionally, the 2004 amount includes $3.9 million related to construction in progress on the wastewater treatment facility. See "Results of Operations Outlook" for discussion of the $12 million of proceeds from sale of property in Henderson. 34 During the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company deposited funds into certificates of deposit and other interest bearing accounts as collateral for certain Company obligations in lieu of entering into letters of credit. These deposits, which are restricted as to the Companys use, provide the Company with interest income as opposed to interest expense incurred through the use of letters of credit. During 2004, certain of these deposits were liquidated in favor of entering into letters of credit. Financing activities. Cash provided during 2004 related primarily to the Companys net borrowings of $43.2 million, which the Company primarily used to support the accumulation of inventory in order to meet expected customer demand for 2005 and also support capital expenditures and the acquisition of marketable securities. In addition, the Company paid dividends on its Series A Preferred Stock of $3.3 million and TIMET Savoie made a $0.7 million dividend payment to CEZUS during 2004. Cash used during 2003 related primarily to the Companys $19.3 million of net repayments on its outstanding borrowings upon the Companys receipt of a $27.7 million customer advance in January 2003. Additionally, TIMET Savoie made a $1.9 million dividend payment to CEZUS during 2003. Cash provided during 2002 related primarily to net borrowings of $6.3 million necessary to fulfill the Companys working capital needs. Additionally, TIMET Savoie made a $1.1 million dividend payment to CEZUS during 2002. The Company also incurred approximately $1.1 million in financing costs in conjunction with the Companys amendment of its U.S. revolving credit agreement in 2002. These costs were deferred and are amortized over the life of the agreement, which matures in February 2006. See further discussion below in "Liquidity and Capital Resources Borrowing arrangements." Borrowing arrangements. Under the terms of the Companys U.S. asset based revolving credit agreement, which matures in February 2006, borrowings are limited to the lesser of $105 million or a formula determined borrowing base derived from the value of accounts receivable, inventory and equipment ("borrowing availability"). During the first quarter of 2004, the Company amended its U.S. credit facility to, among other things, allow the Company the flexibility to remove the equipment component from the determination of the Companys borrowing availability in order to avoid the costs of an appraisal. The Company took advantage of this flexibility during the first quarter of 2004, effectively reducing the Companys current borrowing availability in the U.S. by $12 million. However, the Company can regain this availability by completing an updated equipment appraisal. Interest currently accrues at rates based on LIBOR plus 2% and bank prime rate plus 0.5%. The weighted average interest rate on borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2004 was 4.3%. Borrowings are collateralized by substantially all of the Companys U.S. assets. The U.S. credit agreement prohibits the payment of distributions in respect of the Capital Trusts BUCS and dividends on the Companys Series A Preferred Stock if "excess availability" (defined as borrowing availability less outstanding borrowings and certain contractual commitments such as letters of credit) is less than $25 million. Further, the credit agreement limits additional indebtedness, prohibits the payment of dividends on the Companys common stock if excess availability is less than $40 million, requires compliance with certain financial covenants, including a minimum net worth covenant and a fixed charge ratio covenant, and contains other covenants customary in lending transactions of this type. The Company was in compliance with all covenants for all periods during the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had outstanding borrowings under the U.S. credit agreement of $43.2 million, and excess availability was approximately $48 million. Under this agreement, the Company is required to maintain a lock box arrangement whereby daily net cash receipts are used to reduce outstanding borrowings. Accordingly, any outstanding balances under the U.S. credit agreement are classified as a current liability, regardless of the maturity date of the agreement. 35 The Companys subsidiary, TIMET UK, has a credit agreement that provides for borrowings limited to the lesser of (pound)22.5 million or a formula determined borrowing base derived from the value of accounts receivable, inventory and property, plant and equipment ("borrowing availability"). The credit agreement includes revolving and term loan facilities and an overdraft facility (the "U.K. Facilities") and matures in February 2006. Borrowings under the U.K. Facilities can be in various currencies including U.S. dollars, British pounds sterling and euros and are collateralized by substantially all of TIMET UKs assets. Interest generally accrues at LIBOR plus 1.25% for U.S. dollar borrowings and the banks Base Rate plus 1.25% for British pound sterling borrowings. The U.K. Facilities require the maintenance of certain financial ratios and amounts, including a consolidated net worth covenant and other covenants customary in lending transactions of this type. TIMET UK was in compliance with all covenants for all periods during the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. The U.K. overdraft facility is subject to annual review in December of each year and was renewed in December 2004. During the second quarter of 2003, TIMET UK received an interest bearing intercompany loan from a U.S. subsidiary of the Company enabling TIMET UK to reduce its borrowings under the U.K. Facilities to zero. This loan was repaid in full during the third quarter of 2004. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had no borrowings under the U.K. Facilities, and unused borrowing availability was approximately $43 million. The Company also has overdraft and other credit facilities at certain of its other European subsidiaries. These facilities accrue interest at various rates and are payable on demand. As of December 31, 2004, there were no outstanding borrowings under these facilities, and unused borrowing availability was approximately $18 million. No dividends were paid by TIMET on its common stock during 2004, 2003 or 2002. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company paid dividends on its Series A Preferred Stock in the amount of $3.3 million. In addition, subsequent to December 31, 2004, the Companys board of directors declared a dividend of $0.84375 per share, payable on March 15, 2005 to holders of record of Series A Preferred Stock as of the close of trading on March 1, 2005. 36 Contractual commitments. As more fully described in Notes 11, 12, 18 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company was a party to various debt, lease and other agreements at December 31, 2004 that contractually commits the Company to pay certain amounts in the future. The following table summarizes such contractual commitments that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms, including pricing, quantity and date of payment: Payment Due Date 2006/ 2008/ 2010 & 2005 2007 2009 After Total Contractual Commitment (In thousands) Capital leases (1) $ 33 $ 62 $ 62 $ 88 $ 245 Operating leases 2,672 4,855 4,405 22,605 34,537 Notes payable (2) 43,176 43,176 Debt payable to Capital Trust (and accrued interest thereon at December 31, 2004) 66 12,010 12,076 Purchase obligations: Raw materials (3) 82,119 40,897 123,016 Other (4) 27,190 10,461 4,508 6,243 48,402 Other contractual obligations (5) 4,108 175 4,283 $ 159,364 $ 56,450 $ 8,975 $ 40,946 $ 265,735 (1) Includes interest payments due under the capital lease agreements. (2) The Companys U.S. credit agreement matures in 2006. However, this agreement requires the Companys daily net cash receipts to be used to reduce outstanding borrowings and, therefore, the outstanding balance at December 31, 2004 is classified as a current liability. (3) These obligations generally relate to the purchase of titanium sponge pursuant to an LTA that expires on December 31, 2007 (as described in Item 1: Business) and various other open orders for purchase of raw materials. The LTA does not contain automatic renewal provisions; however, the Company may enter into a new agreement to replace the current LTA in the future. (4) These obligations generally relate to contractual operating fees paid to CEZUS for use of a portion of its Ugine, France plant pursuant to an agreement expiring in 2006 (as described in Item 2: Properties), energy purchase obligations with BMI which expire in 2010 (as described in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), contractual obligations related to the construction of the wastewater treatment facility (as described in "Results of Operation Outlook"), an obligation to Contran under an intercorporate services agreement ("ISA") for 2005 (as described in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and various other open orders for purchase of energy and property and equipment. These obligations are generally based on an average price and an assumed constant mix of products purchased, as appropriate. The Company and CEZUS have reached an agreement in principle to extend their operating agreement through 2011. The Company expects to enter into an ISA annually with Contran subsequent to 2005. All open orders are for delivery in 2005. (5) These other obligations are recorded on the Companys balance sheet as of December 31, 2004 and consist of current income taxes payable, a contract for removal of environmental waste and obligations related to workers compensation bonds discussed in "Liquidity and Capital Resources Off balance sheet arrangements." The Company has excluded any potential commitment for funding of retirement and postretirement benefit plans from this table. However, such potential future contributions are discussed below, as appropriate, in "Liquidity and Capital Resources Defined benefit pension plans" and "Liquidity and Capital Resources Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions." 37 Off balance sheet arrangements. As more fully discussed in "Results of Operations Non operating income (expense)," the Company is the primary obligor on two $1.5 million workers compensation bonds issued on behalf of Freedom Forge. The Company has fully expensed the obligation under one of the bonds, but based upon current claims analysis, the Company has expensed only $0.2 million on the other bond, although it is potentially obligated for the remaining $1.3 million. Additionally, the Company has entered into letters of credit to collateralize (i) potential workers compensation claims in Ohio and Nevada and (ii) future usage of electricity in Nevada. The Companys excess availability under its U.S. credit agreement has been reduced by $2.3 million and $1.3 million, respectively, related to such letters of credit. Defined benefit pension plans. As of December 31, 2004, the Company maintains three defined benefit pension plans one each in the U.S., the U.K. and France. Prior to December 31, 2003, the U.S. maintained two plans, which were merged as of that date. The majority of the discussion below relates to the U.S. and U.K. plans, as the French plan is not material to the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets, Statements of Operations or Statements of Cash Flows. The Company recorded consolidated pension expense of $7.7 million, $8.9 million and $4.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Pension expense for these periods was calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, most significant of which are the discount rate and the expected long term rate of return. The discount rate the Company utilizes for determining pension expense and pension obligations is based on a review of long term bonds (10 to 15 year maturities) that receive one of the two highest ratings given by recognized rating agencies (generally Merrill Lynch, Moodys, Solomon Smith Barney and UBS Warburg) as well as composite indices provided by the Companys actuaries. Changes in the Companys discount rate over the past three years reflect the decline in such bond rates during that period. The Company establishes a rate that is used to determine obligations as of the year end date and expense for the subsequent year. The Company used the following discount rate assumptions for its pension plans: Discount rates used for: Obligation at Obligation at Obligation at December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 December 31, 2002 and expense in 2005 and expense in 2004 and expense in 2003 U.S. Plan(s) 5.65% 6.00% 6.25% U.K. Plan 5.30% 5.50% 5.70% In developing the Companys expected long term rate of return assumptions, the Company evaluates historical market rates of return and input from its actuaries, including a review of asset class return expectations as well as long term inflation assumptions. Projected returns are based on broad equity (large cap, small cap and international) and bond (corporate and government) indices as well as anticipation that the plans active investment managers will generate premiums above the standard market projections. The Company used the following long term rate of return assumptions for its pension plans: Long term rates of return used for: Obligation at Obligation at Obligation at December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 December 31, 2002 and expense in 2005 and expense in 2004 and expense in 2003 U.S. Plan(s) 10.00% 10.00% 8.50% U.K. Plan 7.10% 7.10% 6.70% 38 Lowering the expected long term rate of return on the Companys U.S. plans assets by 0.5% (from 10.0% to 9.5%) would have increased 2004 pension expense by approximately $0.3 million, and lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 6.0% to 5.75%) would have increased the Companys U.S. plans 2004 pension expense by approximately $0.1 million. Lowering the expected long term rate of return on the Companys U.K. plans assets by 0.5% (from 7.1% to 6.6%) would have increased 2004 pension expense by approximately $0.5 million, and lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 5.5% to 5.25%) would have increased the Companys U.K. plans 2004 pension expense by approximately $0.8 million. During the second quarter of 2003, the Company transferred all of its U.S. plans assets into the Combined Master Retirement Trust ("CMRT"). The CMRT is a collective investment trust established by Valhi to permit the collective investment by certain master trusts which fund certain employee benefits plans sponsored by Valhi and certain related companies. The CMRT held 12% of TIMET common stock at December 31, 2004; however, the Companys plan assets are invested only in a portion of the CMRT that does not hold TIMET common stock. At December 31, 2004, Valhi and related entities or persons (excluding the CMRT) held approximately 40.8% of TIMETs outstanding common stock and approximately 41.3% of the Companys Series A Preferred Stock. Harold C. Simmons, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Valhi and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of TIMET, is the sole trustee of the CMRT, a member of the trust investment committee for the CMRT. The CMRTs long term investment objective is to provide a rate of return exceeding a composite of broad market equity and fixed income indices (including the S&P 500 and certain Russell indices) utilizing both third party investment managers as well as investments directed by Mr. Simmons. During the 17 year history of the CMRT, the average annual rate of return earned by the CMRT, as calculated based on the average percentage change in the CMRTs net asset value per CMRT unit for each applicable year, was 12.7%. The CMRT earned an annual return of 18.0% in 2004, and the CMRTs last 5 year and 10 year average annual returns were 12.4% and 12.7%, respectively. The CMRTs annual rates of return from inception through December 31, 2004 have varied from a high of a 42.2% return (in 1998) to a low of a 20.7% loss (in 1990). During that same period, the S&P 500s annual rates of return have varied from a high of a 34.1% return (in 1995) to a low of a 23.4% loss (in 2002). At December 31, 2004, the CMRTs asset mix (based on an aggregate asset value of $539 million) was 77.1% U.S. equity securities, 7.2% foreign equity securities, 14.1% debt securities and 1.6% cash and other. The CMRT`s trustee and investment committee actively manage the investments within the CMRT. Such parties have in the past, and may again in the future, periodically change the relative asset mix based upon, among other things, advice they receive from third party advisors and their expectation as to what asset mix will generate the greatest overall return. Based on the above, the Company increased its long term rate of return assumption to 10.0% for December 31, 2003 pension obligations and for 2004 pension expense for its U.S. plan and maintained the assumption for December 31, 2004 pension obligations and 2005 pension expense. 39 Because of market fluctuations and prior funding strategies, actual asset allocation as of December 31, 2004 was 86.9% equity securities and 13.1% fixed income securities for the U.K. plan. During 2003, the trustees for the U.K. plan selected a new investment advisor (effective in 2004) for the U.K. plan and modified its asset allocation goals. The Companys future expected long term rate of return on plan assets for its U.K. plan is based on an asset allocation assumption of 80% equity securities and 20% fixed income securities by the end of 2005 and 60% equity securities and 40% fixed income securities by the end of 2007, and all current contributions to the plan are invested wholly in fixed income securities in order to gradually effect the shift. Based on various factors, including improved economic and market conditions, gains on the plan assets during 2003 and projected asset mix, the Company increased its assumed long term rate of return for December 31, 2003 pension obligations and for 2004 pension expense to 7.10% for its U.K. plan and maintained the assumption for December 31, 2004 pension obligations and for 2005 pension expense. Although the expected rate of return is a long term measure, the Company will continue to evaluate its expected rate of return, at least annually, and will adjust it as considered necessary. The expected return on the fair value of the plan assets, determined based on the expected long term rate of return, is a component of pension expense. This methodology further recognizes actual investment gains or losses (i.e., the difference between the expected and actual returns based on the market value of assets) in pension expense through amortization in future periods based upon the expected average remaining service life of the plan participants. Unrealized gains or losses may impact future periods to the extent the accumulated gains or losses are outside the "corridor" as defined by SFAS No. 87. Based on an expected rate of return on plan assets of 10.0%, a discount rate of 5.65% and various other assumptions, the Company estimates that its U.S. plan will have pension expense of approximately $0.3 million in 2005 and approximately $11,000 in 2006 and pension income of approximately $0.4 million in 2007. A 0.25% increase (decrease) in the discount rate would decrease (increase) projected pension expense by approximately $0.1 million in 2005 and 2006 and increase (decease) projected pension income by approximately $0.1 million in 2007. A 0.5% increase (decrease) in the long term rate of return would decrease (increase) projected pension expense by approximately $0.3 million in 2005 and approximately $0.4 million in 2006 and increase (decrease) projected pension income by approximately $0.4 million in 2007. Based on an expected rate of return on plan assets of 7.1%, a discount rate of 5.3% and various other assumptions (including an exchange rate of $1.90/(pound)1.00), the Company estimates that pension expense for its U.K. plan will approximate $7.8 million in 2005, $7.0 million in 2006 and $6.3 million in 2007. A 0.25% increase (decrease) in the discount rate would decrease (increase) projected pension expense by approximately $0.8 million in 2005, $0.7 million in 2006 and $0.7 million in 2007. A 0.5% increase (decrease) in the long term rate of return would decrease (increase) projected pension expense by approximately $0.6 million in 2005, $0.7 million in 2006 and $0.9 million in 2007. Actual future pension expense will depend on actual future investment performance, changes in future discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in the Companys pension plans. 40 The Company made cash contributions of approximately $1.8 million in 2004, $4.4 million in 2003 and $1.2 million in 2002 to the U.S. plans and cash contributions of approximately $8.2 million in 2004, $7.3 million in 2003 and $6.1 million in 2002 to the U.K. plan. Based upon the current underfunded status of the plans and the actuarial assumptions being used for 2005, the Company believes that it will be required to make the following cash contributions (exclusive of any required employee contributions) over the next five years: Projected cash contributions U.S. Plan U.K.Plan Total (In millions, and using an exchange rate of$1.90/(pound)1.00 for U.K. plan ) Year ending December 31, 2005 $ $ 8.2 $ 8.2 2006 $ 0.2 $ 8.5 $ 8.7 2007 $ 0.3 $ 8.7 $ 9.0 2008 $ 3.1 $ 9.0 $ 12.1 2009 $ $ 9.3 $ 9.3 The U.S. plan(s) paid benefits of approximately $5.7 million in 2004, $5.6 million in 2003 and $5.4 million in 2002, and the U.K. plan paid benefits of approximately $4.7 million in 2004, $4.3 million in 2003 and $4.1 million in 2002. Based upon current projections, the Company believes the plans will be required to pay the following benefits over the next ten years: Projected retirement benefits U.S. Plan U.K.Plan Total (In millions, and using an exchange rate of$1.90/(pound)1.00 for U.K. plan ) Year ending December 31, 2005 $ 5.8 $ 4.9 $ 10.7 2006 $ 5.9 $ 5.1 $ 11.0 2007 $ 5.9 $ 5.2 $ 11.1 2008 $ 5.9 $ 5.4 $ 11.3 2009 $ 5.9 $ 5.5 $ 11.4 2010 through 2014 $ 29.3 $ 29.9 $ 59.2 The value of the plans assets has fluctuated dramatically over the past three years based mainly on performance of the plans equity securities. The U.S. plans assets were $67.2 million, $60.7 million and $48.2 million at December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and the U.K. plans assets were $121.0 million, $97.8 million and $69.8 million at December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. 41 The combination of actual investment returns, changing discount rates and changes in other assumptions has a significant effect on the Companys funded plan status (plan assets compared to projected benefit obligations). In 2004, the effect of positive investment returns and cash contributions was more than offset by the decline in the discount rate and certain changes in mortality and other retirement assumptions, thereby increasing the under funded status of the U.S. plan by $1.3 million to $11.4 million at December 31, 2004. In 2004, the effect of positive investment returns in the U.K. plan was also more than offset by the decline in the discount rate and certain changes in mortality and retirement assumptions, as well as the effect of the weakening dollar compared to the British pound sterling, thereby increasing the underfunded status of the U.K. plan by $8.4 million to $62.0 million at December 31, 2004. The U.S. and U.K. plans were underfunded by $10.1 million and $53.6 million, respectively, at December 31, 2003. Based upon the change in the funded status of the plans during 2004, the Company was required to record a net additional minimum pension liability charge (net of tax) to equity of $8.9 million, reflecting additional comprehensive loss of $2.5 million for the U.S. plan and $6.4 million related to the U.K. plan. Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions. The Company provides limited postretirement healthcare and life insurance ("OPEB") benefits to a portion of its U.S. employees upon retirement. The Company funds such OPEB benefits as they are incurred, net of any retiree contributions. The Company paid OPEB benefits, net of retiree contributions, of $2.5 million in 2004, $3.1 million in 2003 and $4.6 million in 2002. The Company recorded consolidated OPEB expense of $3.0 million in 2004, $2.7 million in 2003 and $2.9 million in 2002. OPEB expense for these periods was calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, most significant of which are the discount rate and the expected long term health care trend rate. The discount rate the Company utilizes for determining OPEB expense and OPEB obligations is the same as that used for the Companys U.S. pension plans. Lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 6.0% to 5.75%) would have increased the Companys 2004 OPEB expense by less than $0.1 million. The Company estimates the expected long term health care trend rate based upon input from specialists in this area, as provided by the Companys actuaries. In estimating the health care trend rate, the Company considers industry trends, the Companys actual healthcare cost experience and the Companys future benefit structure. For 2004, the Company used a beginning health care trend rate of 10.35%, which is projected to reduce to an ultimate rate of 4.0% in 2010. If the health care trend rate changed by 1.00% for each year, OPEB expense would have increased/decreased by approximately $0.3 million in 2004. For 2005, the Company is using a beginning health care trend rate of 9.29%, which is projected to reduce to an ultimate rate of 4.0% in 2010. Based on a discount rate of 5.65%, a health care trend rate as discussed above and various other assumptions, the Company estimates that OPEB expense will approximate $3.4 million in 2005, $3.3 million in 2006 and $3.2 million in 2007. A 0.25% increase (decrease) in the discount rate would decrease (increase) projected OPEB expense by less than $0.1 million in 2005, 2006 and 2007. A 1.0% increase (decrease) in the health care trend rate for each year would increase (decrease) the projected service and interest cost components of OPEB expense by approximately $0.3 million in 2005, 2006 and 2007. 42 Based upon current projections, the Company will be required to pay the following OPEB benefits, net of retiree contributions, over the next ten years: Projected OPEB payments (In millions) Year ending December 31, 2005 $ 2.8 2006 $ 2.9 2007 $ 3.0 2008 $ 3.1 2009 $ 3.3 2010 through 2014 $ 18.1 Environmental matters. See "Business Regulatory and environmental matters" in Item 1 and Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of environmental matters. Other. The Company periodically evaluates its liquidity requirements, capital needs and availability of resources in view of, among other things, its alternative uses of capital, debt service requirements, the cost of debt and equity capital and estimated future operating cash flows. As a result of this process, the Company has in the past, or in light of its current outlook, may in the future, seek to raise additional capital, modify its common and preferred dividend policies, restructure ownership interests, incur, refinance or restructure indebtedness, repurchase shares of common stock, purchase or redeem BUCS or Series A Preferred Stock, sell assets, or take a combination of such steps or other steps to increase or manage its liquidity and capital resources. In the normal course of business, the Company investigates, evaluates, discusses and engages in acquisition, joint venture, strategic relationship and other business combination opportunities in the titanium, specialty metal and other industries. In the event of any future acquisition or joint venture opportunities, the Company may consider using then available liquidity, issuing equity securities or incurring additional indebtedness. Corporations that may be deemed to be controlled by or affiliated with Mr. Simmons sometimes engage in (i) intercorporate transactions such as guarantees, management and expense sharing arrangements, shared fee arrangements, joint ventures, partnerships, loans, options, advances of funds on open account, and sales, leases and exchanges of assets, including securities issued by both related and unrelated parties, and (ii) common investment and acquisition strategies, business combinations, reorganizations, recapitalizations, securities repurchases, and purchases and sales (and other acquisitions and dispositions) of subsidiaries, divisions or other business units, which transactions have involved both related and unrelated parties and have included transactions which resulted in the acquisition by one related party of a publicly held minority equity interest in another related party. The Company continuously considers, reviews and evaluates such transactions, and understands that Contran, Valhi and related entities consider, review and evaluate such transactions. Depending upon the business, tax and other objectives then relevant, it is possible that the Company might be a party to one or more such transactions in the future. 43 During the first nine months of 2004, the Company purchased 2,212,820 shares of CompX Class A common shares, representing approximately 14.6% of the total number of shares of all classes of CompX common stock outstanding. As of September 30, 2004, NL, a subsidiary of Valhi, held an additional 68.4% of CompX. Effective on October 1, 2004, the Company and NL contributed 100% of their respective holdings on that date of all classes of CompX common stock to CompX Group, Inc. ("CGI") in return for a 17.6% and 82.4% ownership interest in CGI, respectively, and CGI became the owner of the 83.0% of CompX that the Company and NL had previously held in the aggregate. The CompX shares are the sole assets of CGI. The Companys shares of CGI are redeemable at the option of the Company based upon the market value of the underlying CompX stock held by CGI. The fair value of the Companys investment in CGI is based on the market value of the underlying CompX shares. During the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company purchased an additional 336,700 shares of CompX and as of December 31, 2004, the Company held (directly and through its investment in CGI) approximately 16.8% of the total number of shares of all classes of CompX common stock outstanding. None of the shares purchased subsequent to September 30, 2004 have been, or are expected to be, contributed to CGI. Depending upon the Companys evaluation of the business and prospects of CompX, and upon future developments (including, but not limited to, performance of the Class A Shares in the market, availability of funds, alternative uses of funds, and money, stock market and general economic conditions), TIMET may from time to time purchase, dispose of, or cease buying or selling Class A Shares. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The Companys Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments, and select from a range of possible estimates and assumptions, that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reported period. On an on going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable, inventory allowances, asset lives, impairments of investments in marketable securities and investments accounted for by the equity method, the recoverability of other long lived assets, including property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets, pension and other post retirement benefit obligations and the related underlying actuarial assumptions, the realization of deferred income tax assets, and accruals for asset retirement obligations, environmental remediation, litigation, income tax and other contingencies. The Company bases its estimates and judgments, to varying degrees, on historical experience, advice of external specialists and various other factors it believes to be prudent under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from previously estimated amounts and such estimates, assumptions and judgments are regularly subject to revision. The policies and estimates discussed below are considered by management to be critical to an understanding of the Companys financial statements because their application requires the most significant judgments from management in estimating matters for financial reporting that are inherently uncertain. See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these policies and estimates, as well as discussion of additional accounting policies and estimates. 44 Inventory allowances. The Company values approximately 40% of its inventory using the LIFO method, with the remainder stated primarily using an average cost method. The Company periodically reviews its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory and records any write down equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and its estimated net realizable value based upon assumptions about alternative uses, market conditions and other factors. Impairment of long lived assets. Generally, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of long lived assets, including property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets, may not be recoverable, the Company undertakes an evaluation of the assets or asset group. If this evaluation indicates that the carrying amount of the asset or asset group is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment would typically be calculated using discounted expected future cash flows or appraised values. All relevant factors are considered in determining whether an impairment exists. In 2004, no such events or circumstances indicated the need to perform such evaluation. During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company completed an entity wide impairment assessment in response to continued poor conditions in the commercial aerospace market. In order to complete this assessment, the Company identified its lowest level of identifiable cash flows, resulting in the identification of four asset groups U.S., U.K., France and Italy. Of these asset groups, Italy is not reliant on sales into the commercial aerospace market and therefore an analysis of the potential impairment of this asset group was not considered necessary, so only the U.S., U.K. and France asset groups were evaluated. The result of this assessment led the Company to conclude that there was no impairment related to the long lived assets in these three asset groups tested, as the undiscounted cash flows exceeded the net carrying value of the applicable net assets in each of the three asset groups. Although management utilizes certain external information sources such as The Airline Monitor as the basis for aerospace sales volume projections, significant management judgment is required in estimating other factors that are material to future cash flows including, but not limited to, customer demand, the Companys market position, selling prices, competitive forces and manufacturing costs. Future cash flows are inherently uncertain, and there can be no assurance that the Company will achieve the future cash flows reflected in its projections. The Company also completed an impairment assessment of its goodwill and intangible assets upon its adoption of SFAS No. 142 in 2002, which resulted in a non cash goodwill impairment charge of $44.3 million. See "Results of Operations Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle" and Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Valuation and impairment of securities. In accordance with SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, the Companys marketable securities acquired in 2004, including the shares of CompX contributed by the Company and held by CGI (based upon the Companys redemption option), are classified as available for sale securities and are carried at fair value based upon quoted market prices, with unrealized gains and or losses included in stockholders equity as a component of other comprehensive income. The Company evaluates its investments in marketable securities whenever events or conditions occur to indicate that the fair value of such investments has declined below their carrying amounts. If the decline in fair value is judged to be other than temporary, the carrying amount of the security is written down to fair value. In 2004, no such events or circumstances indicated the need to perform such evaluation. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 45 In the fourth quarter of 2001 and the first quarter of 2002, the Company undertook assessments of its investment in SMC. Those assessments indicated that it was unlikely that the Company would recover its then existing carrying amount of the SMC securities in accordance with the securities contractual terms and that an other than temporary decline in the fair value of its investment had occurred. Accordingly, the Company recorded impairment charges of $61.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2001 and $27.5 million in the first quarter of 2002. The securities were not publicly traded and, accordingly, quoted market prices were unavailable. The estimate of fair value required significant judgment and considered a number of factors including, but not limited to, the financial health and prospects of SMC and market yields of comparable securities. Deferred income tax valuation allowances. Under SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, and related guidance, the Company is required to record a valuation allowance if realization of deferred tax assets is not "more likely than not." Substantial weight must be given to recent historical results and near term projections, and management must assess the availability of tax planning strategies that might impact either the need for, or amount of, any valuation allowance. See "Results of Operations Income taxes" for discussion of the Companys analysis of its deferred income tax valuation allowances. Pension and OPEB expenses and obligations. The Companys pension and OPEB expenses and obligations are calculated based on several estimates, including discount rates, expected rates of returns on plan assets and expected health care trend rates. The Company reviews these rates annually with the assistance of its actuaries. See further discussion of the factors considered and potential effect of these estimates in "Liquidity and Capital Resources Defined benefit pension plans" and "Liquidity and Capital Resources Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions." Revenue recognition. Sales revenue is generally recognized when the Company has certified that its product meets the related customer specifications, the product has been shipped, and title and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the customer. Payments received from customers in advance of these criteria being met are recorded as customer advances until earned. Amounts charged to customers for shipping and handling are included in net sales. Sales revenue is stated net of price and early payment discounts. Other loss contingencies. Accruals for estimated loss contingencies, including, but not limited to, product related liabilities, environmental remediation and litigation, are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Disclosure is made when there is a reasonable possibility that a loss may have been incurred. Contingent liabilities are often resolved over long time periods. Estimating probable losses often requires analysis of various projections that are dependent upon the future outcome of multiple factors, including costs, the findings of investigations and actions by the Company and third parties. 46 ITEM 7A: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest rates. The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates related to indebtedness. The Company typically does not enter into interest rate swaps or other types of contracts in order to manage its interest rate market risk. At December 31, 2004, all of the Companys bank indebtedness was denominated in U.S. dollars and bore interest at variable rates, generally related to spreads over bank prime rates and LIBOR. Because the Companys bank indebtedness reprices with changes in market interest rates, the carrying amount of such debt is believed to approximate fair value. At December 31, 2003, the Company had no bank indebtedness. The following table summarizes the Companys bank variable rate indebtedness and related maturities as of December 31, 2004: Contractual maturity date Interest 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 rate (1) (In millions) U. S. dollars $ 43.2 $ $ $ $ 4.3% (1) Weighted average. The Subordinated Debentures held by the Capital Trust provide a fixed 6.625% coupon and are exposed to market risk from changing interest rates. The BUCS issued by the Capital Trust are publicly traded and may provide the best available proxy for the fair value of the underlying Subordinated Debentures. Based upon the last traded value of the BUCS on or before December 31, 2004 ($16.00 per BUCS), the fair value of the outstanding Subordinated Debentures related to the 115,717 outstanding BUCS approximated $1.9 million at December 31, 2004. Foreign currency exchange rates. The Company is exposed to market risk arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of its international operations. The Company does not enter into currency forward contracts to manage its foreign exchange market risk associated with receivables, payables or indebtedness denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the particular entity. See "Results of Operations European operations" in Item 7 MD&A for further discussion. Commodity prices. The Company is exposed to market risk arising from changes in commodity prices as a result of its long term purchase and supply agreements with certain suppliers and customers. These agreements, which offer various fixed or formula determined pricing arrangements, effectively obligate the Company to bear (i) the risk of increased raw material and other costs to the Company that cannot be passed on to the Companys customers through increased titanium product prices (in whole or in part) or (ii) the risk of decreasing raw material costs to the Companys suppliers that are not passed on to the Company in the form of lower raw material prices. Securities prices. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company acquired certain publicly traded equity securities that are exposed to market risk due to changes in prices of the securities as reported on the New York Stock Exchange. The aggregate market value of these equity securities at December 31, 2004 was $47.2 million, as compared to a cost basis of $34.6 million. The potential change in the aggregate market value of these securities, assuming a 10% change in prices, would be $4.7 million at December 31, 2004. See also Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 47 
 
ITEM 7: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview. The Company estimates that aggregate shipment volumes for titanium mill products in 2004 was derived from the following markets: TIMET Titanium Industry (1) Mill product Mill product shipments % of total shipments % of total (Metric tons) (Metric tons) Aerospace: Commercial aerospace 6,575 58% 20,900 34% Military aerospace 1,395 12% 4,000 6% Total aerospace 7,970 70% 24,900 40% Industrial 2,770 24% 33,900 55% Emerging 625 6% 3,000 5% 11,365 100% 61,800 100% (1) Estimates based on the Companys industry experience and information obtained from publicly available external resources (e.g., United States Geological Survey, International Titanium Association and Japan Titanium Society). The titanium industry derives a substantial portion of its demand from the aerospace industry, particularly the highly cyclical commercial aerospace sector. As shown in the table, the Companys business is more dependent on aerospace demand than is the overall titanium industry, and the Companys sales growth during 2004 has benefited from growth in the commercial aerospace sector during this same period. Increased sales revenue, however, has been somewhat offset by increased costs. As a result of higher raw material costs and increasing book inventories during 2004, partially offset by increased capacity utilization, the Companys LIFO inventory reserve increased at the end of 2004 as compared to 2003, resulting in a charge to cost of sales of $7.8 million for the full year 2004. Conversely, during 2003, the Companys successful cost reduction efforts and increased capacity utilization provided for lower unit costs, which, when coupled with decreasing book inventories, reduced the Companys LIFO inventory reserve at the end of 2003 as compared to the end of 2002, resulting in a reduction to cost of sales of $11.4 million in 2003. In August 2004, the Company completed an exchange offer, pursuant to which the Company had offered to exchange all of the 4,024,820 outstanding BUCS issued by the Capital Trust for shares of the Companys Series A Preferred Stock at the exchange rate of one share of Series A Preferred Stock for each BUCS. Based upon the 3,909,103 BUCS tendered and accepted for exchange as of the close of the offer on August 31, 2004, the Company issued 3,909,103 shares of Series A Preferred Stock in exchange for such BUCS. During the third quarter of 2004, the Company recognized a $15.5 million non cash, non operating gain related to the BUCS exchange. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 21 During 2004, the Company recorded $13.6 million ($10.8 million to cost of sales and $2.8 million to selling, general, administrative and development expense) related to certain employee incentive compensation payments expected to be made in 2005 for service in 2004. Comparably, the Company accrued $0.4 million in 2003 related to incentive compensation payments made in 2004 for service in 2003. The increase in incentive compensation expenses in 2004 is primarily due to the Companys improved financial performance during the year. Summarized financial information. The following table summarizes certain information regarding the Companys results of operations for the past three years. Average selling prices, as reported by the Company, are a reflection not just of actual selling prices received by the Company, but also include other related factors such as currency exchange rates and customer and product mix in a given period. Consequently, changes in average selling prices from period to period will be impacted by changes occurring not just in actual prices, but by these other factors as well. The percentage change information presented below represents changes from the respective prior year. See "Results of Operations Outlook" for further discussion of the Companys business expectations for 2005. Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 ($ in thousands, except product shipment data) Net sales: Melted products $ 72,092 $ 57,409 $ 34,800 Mill products 364,248 279,563 278,204 Other products 65,488 55,132 53,497 Other (1) (6,800) Net sales $ 501,828 $ 385,304 $ 366,501 Gross margin 55,918 17,030 (3,123) Gross margin percent of net sales 11% 4% 1% Melted products shipments: Volume (metric tons) 5,360 4,725 2,400 Average selling prices ($ per kilogram) $ 13.45 $ 12.15 $ 14.50 Mill products shipments: Volume (metric tons) 11,365 8,875 8,860 Average selling prices ($ per kilogram) $ 32.05 $ 31.50 $ 31.40 Percentage change in: Sales volume: Melted products +13 +97 46 Mill products +28 27 Average selling prices: Melted products +11 16 Mill products +2 +5 Selling prices excludes changes in product mix: Melted products +7 12 1 Mill products in U.S. dollars +6 3 +4 Mill products in billing currencies (2) +2 7 +3 (1) Represents the effect of a $6.8 million reduction to sales related to the termination of a purchase and sale agreement with Wyman Gordon. See "Results of Operations 2004 operations." (2) Excludes the effect of changes in foreign currencies. 22 Based upon the terms of the Companys LTA with Boeing, the Company receives an annual $28.5 million (less $3.80 per pound of titanium product sold to Boeing subcontractors in the preceding year) customer advance from Boeing in January of each year related to Boeings purchases from TIMET for that year. This advance continues through 2007. The terms of the LTA allow Boeing to purchase up to 7.5 million pounds of titanium product annually from TIMET through 2007, but limit TIMETs maximum quarterly volume obligation to 3.0 million pounds, only 40% of which may be ingot. The LTA is structured as a take or pay agreement such that, beginning in calendar year 2002, Boeing forfeits $3.80 per pound of its advance payment in the event that its orders for delivery are less than 7.5 million pounds in any given calendar year. The Company recognizes income to the extent Boeings year to date orders for delivery plus TIMETs maximum quarterly volume obligations for the remainder of the year total less than 7.5 million pounds. This income is recognized as other operating income and is not included in sales revenue, sales volume or gross margin. Based on actual purchases of approximately 1.7 million pounds during 2004, the Company recognized $22.1 million of take or pay income for the year ended December 31, 2004. The Company recognized $23.1 million and $23.4 million of such income during 2003 and 2002, respectively. Had the Company not benefited from such provisions, the Companys results would have been as follows: Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Operating income (loss), as reported $ 35,277 $ 5,432 $ (20,849) Less take or pay income 22,093 23,083 23,408 Operating income (loss), excluding take or pay $ 13,184 $ (17,651) $ (44,257) Net income (loss) attributable to common $ 35,540 $ (13,057) $ (111,530) stockholders, as reported Less take or pay income 22,093 23,083 23,408 Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders, excluding take or pay $ 13,447 $ (36,140) $ (134,938) 2004 operations. Melted product sales increased 26% and mill product sales increased 30% during 2004 as compared to 2003, principally as a result of increased sales volume due to greater market demand and or share gains across all markets. More specifically, large commercial aircraft deliveries increased from 575 in 2003 to 602 in 2004, and 2005 deliveries are expected to be 680 aircraft. As previously discussed, a substantial portion of the Companys business is tied to the commercial aerospace industry, and sales of titanium generally precede aircraft deliveries by about one year. Therefore, the Companys 2004 net sales have significantly benefited from the increase in production of large commercial aircraft scheduled for delivery in 2005. Average selling prices use actual customer and product mix and foreign currency exchange rates prevailing during the respective periods. The Companys melted products are generally sold only in U.S. dollars. Melted product average selling prices during 2004, as compared to 2003, were positively affected by current market conditions and changes in customer and product mix. Mill product average selling prices during 2004, as compared to 2003, were positively affected by the weakening of the U.S. dollar compared to both the British pound sterling and the euro and negatively affected by changes in customer and product mix. 23 Gross margin (net sales less cost of sales) increased during 2004 as compared to 2003 primarily as a result of improved plant operating rates (from 56% during 2003 to 73% during 2004), partially offset by increased raw material costs and higher energy costs. Gross margin during 2004 was also impacted by: o A $1.6 million reduction in cost of sales related to the modification of the Companys vacation policy. On January 1, 2004, the Company modified its vacation policy for its U.S. salaried employees, whereby such employees no longer accrue their entire years vacation entitlement on January 1, but rather accrue the current years vacation entitlement over the course of the year; o A $10.8 million charge to cost of sales related to the accrual of previously discussed employee incentive compensation payments expected to be made for 2004; and o A $7.8 million charge to cost of sales related to the previously discussed increase in the Companys LIFO inventory reserve. Comparatively, gross margin during 2003 was impacted by: o An $11.4 million reduction in cost of sales related to the previously discussed decrease in the Companys LIFO inventory reserve; o A $1.7 million reduction in cost of sales related to a revision of the Companys estimate of probable loss associated with a previously reported tungsten inclusion matter; and o A $6.8 million reduction in sales related to the termination of a purchase and sale agreement with Wyman Gordon. Concurrently, the Company and Wyman Gordon entered into new long term purchase and sale agreements covering the sale of TIMET products to various Wyman Gordon locations through 2008. Selling, general, administrative and development expenses increased 23%, from $36.4 million during 2003 to $44.9 million during 2004, principally as a result of (i) a $2.8 million accrual related to certain employee incentive compensation payments expected to be made in 2005, (ii) $2.0 million of additional auditing and consulting costs relative to the Companys compliance with the Sarbanes Oxley Acts internal control requirements and (iii) $1.0 million of increased costs related to the Companys intercompany services agreement with Contran Corporation ("Contran"). Equity in earnings of joint ventures increased 183%, from $0.5 million during 2003 to $1.3 million during 2004, due to an increase in the operating results of VALTIMET, the Companys minority owned welded tube joint venture. Net other operating income (expense) decreased 6% from income of $24.4 million during 2003 to income of $23.0 million during 2004, principally due to a decrease in the amount of previously discussed take or pay income recognized by the Company during 2004. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 24 2003 operations. Melted product sales increased 65%, principally as a result of new customer relationships, share gains and changes in product mix during 2003 as compared to 2002. Mill product sales remained relatively flat during 2003 as compared to 2002, as average selling prices and sales volumes were relatively unchanged. Mill product average selling prices were positively affected during 2003 by the weakening of the U.S. dollar compared to the British pound sterling and the euro. Gross margin increased during 2003 as compared to 2002 primarily as a result of the Companys cost reduction efforts, slightly improved plant operating rates (from 55% during 2002 to 56% during 2003) and favorable raw material mix. Additionally, as previously discussed, the Companys LIFO inventory reserve decreased at the end of 2003 as compared to the end of 2002, resulting in a reduction in cost of sales of $11.4 million in 2003. This compared with an increase in the Companys LIFO inventory reserve at the end of 2002 compared to the end of 2001, for which the Company increased cost of sales by $9.3 million in 2002. Gross margin during 2003 was also positively impacted by the previously discussed $1.7 million reduction in cost of sales related to a tungsten inclusion matter. Gross margin during 2003 was adversely impacted by the previously discussed $6.8 million reduction in sales relating to the termination of the Wyman Gordon agreement. Selling, general, administrative and development expenses decreased 15% from $43.0 million during 2002 to $36.4 million during 2003, principally as a result of lower personnel and travel costs, as well as focused cost control in other administrative areas. Equity in earnings of joint ventures decreased 77% from $2.0 million during 2002 to $0.5 million during 2003, principally due to a decrease in the operating results of VALTIMET. Net other operating income (expense) increased 5% from income of $23.3 million during 2002 to income of $24.4 million during 2003, principally due to gains of $0.5 million and $0.6 million related to the settlement of certain litigation in the first quarter and fourth quarters, respectively, of 2003. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Non operating income (expense). Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (In thousands) Interest expense on bank debt $ (2,649) $ (2,017) $ (3,381) Interest expense on debt payable to the Capital Trust (9,802) (14,402) (13,763) $ (12,451) $ (16,419) $ (17,144) Dividends and interest income $ 687 $ 383 $ 118 Equity in earnings of common securities of the Capital Trust 424 432 413 Gain on BUCS exchange, net 15,465 Impairment of investment in Special Metals Corporation ("SMC") preferred securities (27,500) Surety bond guarantee credit (expense) 221 (449) (1,575) Foreign exchange loss, net (477) (189) (587) Other, net (121) (471) (762) $ 16,199 $ (294) $ (29,893) 25 Interest expense on bank debt for 2004 increased 31% compared to 2003 primarily due to higher average outstanding borrowings during 2004 compared to 2003, which the Company used primarily to support its accumulation of inventory to meet expected customer demand during 2005. Interest expense on bank debt for 2003 decreased 40% compared to 2002, primarily due to lower average outstanding borrowings, as the Company generated positive cash flow from operations and was able to reduce its bank borrowings to zero by year end 2003. Prior to 2004, annual interest expense on the Companys debt payable to the Capital Trust approximated $13.7 million, exclusive of any accrued interest on deferred interest payments. On September 1, 2004, the Company exchanged 97.1% of its outstanding BUCS for its Series A Preferred Stock, resulting in a $15.5 million non cash, non operating gain (see "Liquidity and Capital Resources Other" and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Interest expense related to the remaining debt payable to the Capital Trust ($12.0 million at December 31, 2004) is approximately $0.8 million per year. Dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock will approximate the reduction of interest expense on debt payable to the Capital Trust in determining income attributable to common stockholders. During 2002, the Company exercised its right to defer interest payments on the Subordinated Debentures, effective for the December 1, 2002 scheduled interest payment. Interest continued to accrue at the 6.625% coupon rate on the principal and unpaid interest until the Companys Board of Directors approved resumption of scheduled quarterly interest payments on the Subordinated Debentures beginning with the payment on June 1, 2004. The Companys Board also approved payment of all previously deferred interest on the Subordinated Debentures. On April 15, 2004, the Company paid the deferred interest in the amount of $21.7 million, $21.0 million of which related to the BUCS. Dividends and interest income during 2004 consisted of dividends received on the Companys investments in marketable securities and interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents. Dividends and interest income during 2003 and 2002 consisted solely of interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents. In March 2002, SMC and its U.S. subsidiaries filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. As a result, the Company undertook a further assessment of its investment in SMC and subsequently recorded a $27.5 million impairment charge during the first quarter of 2002, which reduced the Companys carrying amount of its investment in the SMC securities to zero. This charge was classified as other non operating expense. Under the terms of SMCs Second Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization, approved by the Bankruptcy Court in 2003, the convertible preferred securities were cancelled. Although the Company does have certain rights as an unsecured creditor under the SMC Plan of Reorganization related to the unpaid dividends, the Company does not believe that it will recover any material amount from this investment. TIMET is the primary obligor on two $1.5 million workers compensation bonds issued on behalf of a former subsidiary, Freedom Forge Corporation ("Freedom Forge"), which TIMET sold in 1989. Freedom Forge filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in 2001, and discontinued payment on the underlying workers compensation claims. During 2002, TIMET received notices that the issuers of the bonds were required to make payments on the first bond with respect to certain of these claims and were requesting reimbursement from TIMET. As of December 31, 2004, the Company has made aggregate payments under the two bonds of $1.1 million, and $0.6 million remains accrued for future payments. TIMET may revise its estimated liability under these bonds in the future as additional facts become known or claims develop. 26 Income taxes. The Company operates in several tax jurisdictions and is subject to varying income tax rates. As a result, the geographic mix of pretax income or loss can impact the Companys overall effective tax rate. For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Companys income tax rate varied from the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to changes in the deferred income tax valuation allowance related to the Companys tax attributes with respect to the "more likely than not" recognition criteria during those periods. The Company did not recognize a deferred tax benefit related to its 2002 or 2003 U.S. losses and, accordingly, increased its U.S. deferred tax valuation allowance by $40.2 million in 2002 and by $0.2 million in 2003. During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company recorded a charge to other comprehensive loss to reflect an increase in its U.K. minimum pension liability. The related tax effect of this charge resulted in the Companys shifting from a net deferred tax liability position to a net deferred tax asset position. Based on the Companys recent history of U.K. losses, its near term outlook and managements evaluation of available tax planning strategies, the Company determined that it would not recognize this deferred tax asset because it did not meet the "more likely than not" recognition criteria and recorded a U.K. deferred tax asset valuation allowance of $7.2 million through other comprehensive income. Additionally, the Company determined that it would not recognize deferred tax benefits related either to future U.K. losses or future increases in U.K. minimum pension liabilities for an uncertain period of time. Accordingly, the Company increased its U.K. deferred tax valuation allowance by $5.5 million in 2003. During 2004, the Companys deferred income tax asset valuation allowance related to income from continuing operations decreased by $13.7 million primarily due to the utilization of the U.S. and U.K. net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards, the benefit of which had previously not met the "more likely than not" recognition criteria. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had cumulative valuation allowances in the U.S. and U.K. of approximately $80.8 million offsetting its deferred income tax assets, primarily related to net operating loss carryforwards, capital loss carryforwards, minimum pension liability and other temporary differences. The Company has concluded that the benefit from these items does not currently meet the "more likely than not" recognition criteria, in part because the Company has not demonstrated a recent pattern of taxable income for a time period sufficient to overcome the negative evidence generated by prior operating losses. The Company will continue to monitor and evaluate these deferred income tax asset valuation allowances in light of all available evidence, and it is possible that at some point in the future the Company will conclude that the weight of positive evidence is sufficient to support reversal of some or all of its valuation allowances. The Company periodically reviews its deferred income tax assets to determine if future realization is more likely than not. During the third quarter of 2004, due to a change in estimate of the Companys ability to utilize the benefits of its NOL carryforwards in Germany, the Company determined that its deferred income tax asset in Germany now meets the "more likely than not" recognition criteria. Accordingly, the Company reversed the $0.7 million valuation allowance attributable to such deferred income tax asset. During the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company recognized a deferred income tax benefit related to a $4.2 million decrease in the Companys U.S. deferred income tax asset valuation allowance attributable to the Companys recognition, for U.S. income tax purposes only, of a capital gain on the fourth quarter sale of certain property located at the Companys Henderson, Nevada facility (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The Company expects to recognize a corresponding deferred income tax expense in 2005, when the gain is recognized under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. 27 In October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 was enacted into law. The new law provides for a special 85% deduction for certain dividends received in 2005 from controlled foreign corporations. Because certain details in the new law lack clarification, and the impact of the special dividend received deduction to the Company is dependent, in part, on the Companys 2005 foreign and domestic taxable income, the Company has not yet determined whether it will benefit from the new law. In 2005, the Company plans to evaluate both clarifying guidance on the new law from the Internal Revenue Service and its year to date taxable income activity to determine the level of benefit, if any, the Company will derive from the special dividend received deduction. Beginning in 2005, the new law also provides for a special deduction from U.S. taxable income equal to a stipulated percentage of a U.S. companys qualified income from domestic manufacturing activities (as defined). Although the Company believes that the majority of its operations meet the definition of qualified domestic manufacturing activities, the Company does not expect to benefit from the special manufacturing deduction in 2005, primarily because the Company projects its U.S. taxable income in 2005 will be fully offset by its existing U.S. NOL carryforwards. During the first quarter of 2002, the Job Creation and Worker Assistance Act of 2002 (the "JCWA Act") was signed into law. The Company benefited from provisions of the JCWA Act, which liberalized certain net operating loss and alternative minimum tax restrictions. As a result, the Company recognized $1.8 million of refundable U.S. income taxes during the first quarter of 2002. The Company received $0.8 million of this refund in the fourth quarter of 2002 and the remaining $1.0 million in the third quarter of 2003. See also Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Dividends on Series A Preferred Stock. Shares of the Companys Series A Preferred Stock are convertible, at any time, at the option of the holder thereof, into one and two thirds shares of the Companys common stock, subject to adjustment in certain events. The Series A Preferred Stock is not mandatorily redeemable, but is redeemable at the option of the Company at any time after the third anniversary of the date of issuance if, prior to the notice of such redemption, the closing price of the Companys common stock exceeds the conversion price for 30 consecutive days. When, as and if declared by the Companys board of directors, holders of the Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to receive cumulative cash dividends at the rate of 6.75% of the $50 per share liquidation preference per annum per share (equivalent to $3.375 per annum per share). The Company paid dividends of $3.3 million to holders of the Series A Preferred Stock during 2004. Subsequent to December 31, 2004, the Companys board of directors declared a dividend of $0.84375 per share, payable on March 15, 2005 to holders of record of Series A Preferred Stock as of the close of trading on March 1, 2005. Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle. On January 1, 2003, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, and recognized (i) an asset retirement cost capitalized as an increase to the carrying value of its property, plant and equipment of approximately $0.2 million, (ii) accumulated depreciation on such capitalized cost of approximately $0.1 million and (iii) a liability for the asset retirement obligation of approximately $0.3 million. The asset retirement obligation recognized relates primarily to landfill closure and leasehold restoration costs. 28 In 2002, the Company completed an impairment assessment of its goodwill and intangible assets upon its adoption of SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, in 2002. Management judgment was used to identify the Companys reporting units, determine the carrying amount of each reporting unit by assigning its assets and liabilities, including existing goodwill and intangible assets, to those reporting units as of January 1, 2002, and determine the implied fair value of its goodwill. This evaluation considered, among other things, a combination of fair value indicators including quoted market prices, prices of comparable businesses and discounted projected cash flows based upon Company forecasts, which considered information obtained from review of The Airline Monitor and from discussions with the Companys customers throughout the first half of 2002, both of which assisted the Company in better estimating the impact of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on its business. As a result of this information, step one of the impairment evaluation completed in the second quarter of 2002 indicated that the Companys recorded goodwill might be impaired, which obligated the Company to complete the second step of the impairment test. Based on the results of the second step of the impairment test completed during the third quarter of 2002, which indicated the Companys goodwill was impaired, the Company recorded a non cash goodwill impairment charge of $44.3 million, representing the entire balance of the Companys recorded goodwill at January 1, 2002. See further discussion regarding the Companys adoption of these accounting principles in Notes 2 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. European operations. The Company has substantial operations located in Europe, principally in the United Kingdom, France and Italy. Approximately 43% of the Companys sales revenue originated in Europe in 2004, of which approximately 61% was denominated in the British pound sterling or the euro. Certain purchases of raw materials, principally titanium sponge and alloys, for the Companys European operations are denominated in U.S. dollars, while labor and other production costs are primarily denominated in local currencies. The functional currencies of the Companys European subsidiaries are those of their respective countries, and the European subsidiaries are subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may impact reported earnings and may affect the comparability of period to period operating results. Borrowings of the Companys European operations may be in U.S. dollars or in functional currencies. The Companys export sales from the U.S. are denominated in U.S. dollars and as such are not subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations. The Company does not use currency contracts to hedge its currency exposures. Net currency transaction losses included in results of operations were $0.5 million in 2004, $0.2 million in 2003 and $0.6 million in 2002. At December 31, 2004, consolidated assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currencies were approximately $39.7 million and $35.0 million, respectively, consisting primarily of U.S. dollar cash, accounts receivable and accounts payable. VALTIMET has entered into certain derivative financial instruments that qualify as cash flow hedges under GAAP. The Companys pro rata share of VALTIMETs unrealized net gains on such derivative financial instruments is included as a component of other comprehensive income. Related party transactions. The Company is a party to certain transactions with related parties. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 29 Outlook. The Outlook section contains a number of forward looking statements, all of which are based on current expectations and exclude the effect of potential future charges related to restructurings, asset impairments, valuation allowances, changes in accounting principles and similar items, unless otherwise noted. Undue reliance should not be placed on these statements, as more fully discussed in the "Forward Looking Information" statement of this Annual Report. Actual results may differ materially. See also Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements regarding commitments, contingencies, legal matters, environmental matters and other matters, including new accounting principles, which could materially affect the Companys future business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. In 2004, TIMET returned to full year profitability for the first time since 1998. This was primarily achieved due to significant increases in demand for the Companys products into all markets, as well as continued focus on controlling costs. The Company is encouraged by what it expects for the near future, with prices for its products continuing to rise, build rates of commercial aircraft forecasted to increase, and greater potential for increases in several emerging markets, including military armor, energy and automotive applications. Over the past several quarters, the Company has seen the availability of raw materials tighten, and, consequently, the prices for such raw materials increase. The Company currently expects that a shortage in raw materials is likely to continue throughout 2005 and into 2006, which could limit the Companys ability to produce enough titanium products to fully meet customer demand. In addition, TIMET has certain customer long term agreements that limit the Companys ability to pass on all of its increased raw material costs. The Company currently expects its 2005 net sales revenue to range from $650 million to $680 million, which is an increase of 30% to 36% from 2004. Mill product sales volume, which was 11,365 metric tons in 2004, is expected to range from 13,600 and 14,300 metric tons in 2005, an increase of 20% to 26%. Melted product sales volume, which was 5,360 metric tons in 2004, is expected to range from 5,400 and 5,700 metric tons in 2005, an increase of 1% to 6%. The Company also expects mill product average selling prices to increase by 10% to 15% in 2005, as compared to 2004, and melted product average selling prices to increase from 17% to 22% in 2005, as compared to 2004. The Companys cost of sales is affected by a number of factors including customer and product mix, material yields, plant operating rates, raw material costs, labor and energy costs. Raw material costs, which include sponge, scrap and alloys, represent the largest portion of the Companys manufacturing cost structure, and, as previously discussed, continued cost increases are expected during 2005. Scrap and certain alloy prices have more than doubled from year ago prices, and increased energy costs also continue to have a negative impact on gross margin. In addition, the Companys cost of sales can be significantly affected by adjustments to its LIFO inventory reserve, as was the case during 2004 and 2003. The Company currently expects production volumes to continue to increase in 2005, with overall capacity utilization expected to approximate 75% to 80% in 2005 (as compared to 73% in 2004). However, practical capacity utilization measures can vary significantly based on product mix. Current expectations are that gross margin during 2005 will range from 11% to 13% of net sales. Selling, general, administrative and development expenses is expected to increase from $45 million during 2004 to approximately $48 million during 2005, or from 7.1% to 7.4% of projected net sales, which is a decrease from 8.9% of net sales in 2004. 30 The Company anticipates that Boeing will purchase a significantly higher amount of titanium during 2005 as compared to 2004 and, therefore, expects the amount of take or pay income recognized during 2005 to decrease to between $15 million and $20 million. The take or pay income will continue to be reported as operating income, but will not be included in sales revenue, sales volume or gross margin. The Company presently expects operating income for 2005 of $50 million to $65 million, which represents a 42% to 84% increase from operating income earned in 2004. Dividends on the Companys Series A Preferred Stock should approximate $13.2 million in 2005. The Company expects net income attributable to common stockholders to range from $35 million to $50 million. These net income estimates include a $12.6 million non operating gain related to the sale of certain property adjacent to the Companys Henderson, Nevada plant site to Basic Management, Inc. and certain affiliates ("BMI"), a 32% owned subsidiary of Valhi. This gain is primarily comprised of (i) $12.0 million in cash received upon closing of the sale (in November 2004) and (ii) the anticipated reversal of a $0.6 million accrual currently recorded by the Company for potential environmental issues related to the property, which obligation will be assumed by BMI. This gain has been deferred and will be recognized when the Company completes its construction of a wastewater treatment facility on its Henderson plant site and can cease use of certain settling ponds located on the property sold to BMI. The Company currently expects the wastewater treatment facility to be completed and operational in the second quarter of 2005. These net income estimates exclude a net income tax benefit of $35 million to $40 million that the Company may recognize during 2005 if a reversal of a portion of the Companys deferred tax asset valuation allowance with respect to its U.S. and U.K. net operating loss carryforwards is determined to be appropriate under the more likely than not recognition criteria. The Company currently expects to generate $50 million to $60 million in cash flow from operations during 2005. Capital expenditures during 2005 are expected to approximate $42 million. The increased spending over 2004 primarily reflects the remaining $13 million related to construction of the wastewater treatment facility, as well as additional capacity improvements as the Company continues to prepare for increased demand by certain customers under long term agreements. Depreciation and amortization should approximate $32 million in 2005. The Company currently expects to make contributions of approximately $8.2 million to its defined benefit pension plans during 2005, and expects pension expense to approximate $8.1 million in 2005. 31 Non GAAP financial measures. In an effort to provide investors with information in addition to the Companys results as determined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"), the Company has provided the following non GAAP financial disclosures that it believes may provide useful information to investors: o The Company discloses percentage changes in its mill and melted product selling prices in U.S. dollars, which have been adjusted to exclude the effects of changes in product mix. The Company believes such disclosure provides useful information to investors by allowing them to analyze such changes without the impact of changes in product mix, thereby facilitating period to period comparisons of the relative changes in average selling prices. Depending on the composition of changes in product mix, the percentage change in selling prices excluding the effect of changes in product mix can be higher or lower than such percentage change would be using the actual product mix prevailing during the respective periods; o In addition to disclosing percentage changes in its mill product selling prices adjusted to exclude the effects of changes in product mix, the Company also discloses such percentage changes in billing currencies, which also excludes the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company believes such disclosure provides useful information to investors by allowing them to analyze such changes without the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period to period comparisons of the relative changes in average selling prices in the various actual billing currencies. Generally, when the U.S. dollar strengthens (weakens) against other currencies, the percentage change in selling prices in billing currencies will be higher (lower) than such percentage changes would be using actual exchange rates prevailing during the respective periods; and o The Company discloses operating income and net income excluding the impact of the Boeing take or pay income. The Company believes this provides investors with useful information to better analyze the Companys business and possible future earnings during periods after December 31, 2007, at which time the Company will no longer receive the positive effects of the take or pay income. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The Companys consolidated cash flows for each of the past three years are presented below. The following should be read in conjunction with the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto. Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (In thousands) Cash (used) provided by: Operating activities $ (22,433) $ 65,821 $ (13,595) Investing activities (44,528) (14,534) (7,467) Financing activities 38,742 (22,068) 3,523 Net cash (used) provided by operating, investing and financing activities $ (28,219) $ 29,219 $ (17,539) 32 Operating activities. The titanium industry historically has derived a substantial portion of its business from the aerospace industry. The aerospace industry is cyclical, and changes in economic conditions within the aerospace industry significantly impact the Companys earnings and operating cash flows. Cash flow from operations has been a primary source of the Companys liquidity. Changes in titanium pricing, production volume and customer demand, among other things, could significantly affect the Companys liquidity. Certain items included in the determination of net loss have an impact on cash flows from operating activities, but the impact of such items on cash may differ from their impact on net loss. For example, pension expense and OPEB expense will generally differ from the outflows of cash for payment of such benefits. In addition, relative changes in assets and liabilities generally result from the timing of production, sales and purchases. Such relative changes can significantly impact the comparability of cash flow from operations from period to period, as the income statement impact of such items may occur in a different period than that in which the underlying cash transaction occurs. For example, raw materials may be purchased in one period, but the cash payment for such raw materials may occur in a subsequent period. Similarly, inventory may be sold in one period, but the cash collection of the receivable may occur in a subsequent period. The Companys bottom line increased from a net loss attributable to common stockholders of $13.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 to net income attributable to common stockholders of $35.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Accounts receivable increased during 2004 primarily due to increased sales, as fourth quarter 2004 net sales, the primary source of the year end accounts receivable balance, increased 36% over the year ago period. Accounts receivable decreased during 2003 primarily due to improved collection efforts with the Companys customers, partially offset by the weakening of the U.S. dollar compared to the British pound sterling and the euro. Accounts receivable decreased significantly during 2002 primarily as a result of reduced sales, partially offset by an increase in aging of accounts as certain customers extended their payment terms to the Company in response to unfavorable economic conditions. Inventories increased during 2004 as a result of increased run rates and related inventory build in order to meet expected customer demand during 2005, as well as the effects of increased raw material costs. These increases were partially offset by a $7.8 million increase in the Companys LIFO reserve at December 31, 2004. Inventories decreased during 2003 primarily due to the Companys concentrated focus on inventory reduction during 2003, partially offset by a decrease in the Companys LIFO inventory reserve of $11.4 million. Inventories decreased during 2002 primarily as a result of reduced production in the fourth quarter of 2002, a $9.3 million increase in the Companys LIFO inventory reserve and an increase in the Companys reserves for excess inventories, which the Company recorded in response to decreased demand for its products and other changes in business conditions. 33 Changes in accounts payable and accrued liabilities reflect, among other things, the timing of payments to suppliers of titanium sponge, titanium scrap and other raw material purchases. Accrued liabilities increased during 2004 primarily due to (i) a $12.0 million net increase in the Companys accrual for incentive compensation for potential employee profit sharing payments to be made in 2005 and (ii) a $1.1 million increase to the Companys accrual for costs expected to be incurred for environmental remediation at the Companys Henderson, Nevada facility. These increases were partially offset by (i) payment of the $2.8 million final installment related to termination of the prior Wyman Gordon agreement, (ii) a $1.9 million reduction of the Companys vacation accrual related to the Companys modification of its vacation policy for its U.S salaried employees and (iii) a $3.5 million reclassification of the Companys U.S. defined benefit pension liability from current to noncurrent, as the Companys short term cash contribution requirements decreased significantly. Pursuant to an agreement between TIMET and Boeing, Boeing advances TIMET $28.5 million annually less $3.80 per pound of titanium product purchased by Boeing subcontractors during the preceding year. The Company received a $27.9 million advance for 2005 in January 2005, a $27.9 million advance for 2004 in January 2004 and a $27.7 million advance for 2003 in January 2003. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. During the first quarter of 2002, the Company recorded a $27.5 million impairment charge to its investment in the preferred securities of SMC, which reduced the carrying amount of such investment to zero. See "Results of Operations Non operating income (expense)" for further discussion of the Companys investment in SMC. See "Results of Operations Income taxes" for discussion of the Companys income taxes. In October 2002, the Company exercised its right to defer future interest payments on its Subordinated Debentures held by the Capital Trust, effective beginning with the Companys December 1, 2002 scheduled interest payment, although interest continued to accrue at the coupon rate on the principal and unpaid interest. On April 15, 2004, the Company paid all previously deferred and accrued interest in the amount of $21.7 million ($21.0 million of which related to the BUCS) and on June 1, 2004, the Company resumed its quarterly interest payments on the Subordinated Debentures. Changes in accrued interest on debt payable to the Capital Trust reflect this activity. Investing activities. During 2004, the Company purchased 2,549,520 shares of CompX International, Inc. ("CompX") Class A common stock for $32.0 million and 222,100 shares of NL Industries, Inc. ("NL") common stock for $2.5 million. See further discussion in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Companys capital expenditures were $23.6 million in 2004, $12.5 million in 2003 and $7.8 million in 2002, principally for replacement of machinery and equipment and for capacity maintenance. Additionally, the 2004 amount includes $3.9 million related to construction in progress on the wastewater treatment facility. See "Results of Operations Outlook" for discussion of the $12 million of proceeds from sale of property in Henderson. 34 During the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company deposited funds into certificates of deposit and other interest bearing accounts as collateral for certain Company obligations in lieu of entering into letters of credit. These deposits, which are restricted as to the Companys use, provide the Company with interest income as opposed to interest expense incurred through the use of letters of credit. During 2004, certain of these deposits were liquidated in favor of entering into letters of credit. Financing activities. Cash provided during 2004 related primarily to the Companys net borrowings of $43.2 million, which the Company primarily used to support the accumulation of inventory in order to meet expected customer demand for 2005 and also support capital expenditures and the acquisition of marketable securities. In addition, the Company paid dividends on its Series A Preferred Stock of $3.3 million and TIMET Savoie made a $0.7 million dividend payment to CEZUS during 2004. Cash used during 2003 related primarily to the Companys $19.3 million of net repayments on its outstanding borrowings upon the Companys receipt of a $27.7 million customer advance in January 2003. Additionally, TIMET Savoie made a $1.9 million dividend payment to CEZUS during 2003. Cash provided during 2002 related primarily to net borrowings of $6.3 million necessary to fulfill the Companys working capital needs. Additionally, TIMET Savoie made a $1.1 million dividend payment to CEZUS during 2002. The Company also incurred approximately $1.1 million in financing costs in conjunction with the Companys amendment of its U.S. revolving credit agreement in 2002. These costs were deferred and are amortized over the life of the agreement, which matures in February 2006. See further discussion below in "Liquidity and Capital Resources Borrowing arrangements." Borrowing arrangements. Under the terms of the Companys U.S. asset based revolving credit agreement, which matures in February 2006, borrowings are limited to the lesser of $105 million or a formula determined borrowing base derived from the value of accounts receivable, inventory and equipment ("borrowing availability"). During the first quarter of 2004, the Company amended its U.S. credit facility to, among other things, allow the Company the flexibility to remove the equipment component from the determination of the Companys borrowing availability in order to avoid the costs of an appraisal. The Company took advantage of this flexibility during the first quarter of 2004, effectively reducing the Companys current borrowing availability in the U.S. by $12 million. However, the Company can regain this availability by completing an updated equipment appraisal. Interest currently accrues at rates based on LIBOR plus 2% and bank prime rate plus 0.5%. The weighted average interest rate on borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2004 was 4.3%. Borrowings are collateralized by substantially all of the Companys U.S. assets. The U.S. credit agreement prohibits the payment of distributions in respect of the Capital Trusts BUCS and dividends on the Companys Series A Preferred Stock if "excess availability" (defined as borrowing availability less outstanding borrowings and certain contractual commitments such as letters of credit) is less than $25 million. Further, the credit agreement limits additional indebtedness, prohibits the payment of dividends on the Companys common stock if excess availability is less than $40 million, requires compliance with certain financial covenants, including a minimum net worth covenant and a fixed charge ratio covenant, and contains other covenants customary in lending transactions of this type. The Company was in compliance with all covenants for all periods during the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had outstanding borrowings under the U.S. credit agreement of $43.2 million, and excess availability was approximately $48 million. Under this agreement, the Company is required to maintain a lock box arrangement whereby daily net cash receipts are used to reduce outstanding borrowings. Accordingly, any outstanding balances under the U.S. credit agreement are classified as a current liability, regardless of the maturity date of the agreement. 35 The Companys subsidiary, TIMET UK, has a credit agreement that provides for borrowings limited to the lesser of (pound)22.5 million or a formula determined borrowing base derived from the value of accounts receivable, inventory and property, plant and equipment ("borrowing availability"). The credit agreement includes revolving and term loan facilities and an overdraft facility (the "U.K. Facilities") and matures in February 2006. Borrowings under the U.K. Facilities can be in various currencies including U.S. dollars, British pounds sterling and euros and are collateralized by substantially all of TIMET UKs assets. Interest generally accrues at LIBOR plus 1.25% for U.S. dollar borrowings and the banks Base Rate plus 1.25% for British pound sterling borrowings. The U.K. Facilities require the maintenance of certain financial ratios and amounts, including a consolidated net worth covenant and other covenants customary in lending transactions of this type. TIMET UK was in compliance with all covenants for all periods during the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. The U.K. overdraft facility is subject to annual review in December of each year and was renewed in December 2004. During the second quarter of 2003, TIMET UK received an interest bearing intercompany loan from a U.S. subsidiary of the Company enabling TIMET UK to reduce its borrowings under the U.K. Facilities to zero. This loan was repaid in full during the third quarter of 2004. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had no borrowings under the U.K. Facilities, and unused borrowing availability was approximately $43 million. The Company also has overdraft and other credit facilities at certain of its other European subsidiaries. These facilities accrue interest at various rates and are payable on demand. As of December 31, 2004, there were no outstanding borrowings under these facilities, and unused borrowing availability was approximately $18 million. No dividends were paid by TIMET on its common stock during 2004, 2003 or 2002. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company paid dividends on its Series A Preferred Stock in the amount of $3.3 million. In addition, subsequent to December 31, 2004, the Companys board of directors declared a dividend of $0.84375 per share, payable on March 15, 2005 to holders of record of Series A Preferred Stock as of the close of trading on March 1, 2005. 36 Contractual commitments. As more fully described in Notes 11, 12, 18 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company was a party to various debt, lease and other agreements at December 31, 2004 that contractually commits the Company to pay certain amounts in the future. The following table summarizes such contractual commitments that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms, including pricing, quantity and date of payment: Payment Due Date 2006/ 2008/ 2010 & 2005 2007 2009 After Total Contractual Commitment (In thousands) Capital leases (1) $ 33 $ 62 $ 62 $ 88 $ 245 Operating leases 2,672 4,855 4,405 22,605 34,537 Notes payable (2) 43,176 43,176 Debt payable to Capital Trust (and accrued interest thereon at December 31, 2004) 66 12,010 12,076 Purchase obligations: Raw materials (3) 82,119 40,897 123,016 Other (4) 27,190 10,461 4,508 6,243 48,402 Other contractual obligations (5) 4,108 175 4,283 $ 159,364 $ 56,450 $ 8,975 $ 40,946 $ 265,735 (1) Includes interest payments due under the capital lease agreements. (2) The Companys U.S. credit agreement matures in 2006. However, this agreement requires the Companys daily net cash receipts to be used to reduce outstanding borrowings and, therefore, the outstanding balance at December 31, 2004 is classified as a current liability. (3) These obligations generally relate to the purchase of titanium sponge pursuant to an LTA that expires on December 31, 2007 (as described in Item 1: Business) and various other open orders for purchase of raw materials. The LTA does not contain automatic renewal provisions; however, the Company may enter into a new agreement to replace the current LTA in the future. (4) These obligations generally relate to contractual operating fees paid to CEZUS for use of a portion of its Ugine, France plant pursuant to an agreement expiring in 2006 (as described in Item 2: Properties), energy purchase obligations with BMI which expire in 2010 (as described in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), contractual obligations related to the construction of the wastewater treatment facility (as described in "Results of Operation Outlook"), an obligation to Contran under an intercorporate services agreement ("ISA") for 2005 (as described in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and various other open orders for purchase of energy and property and equipment. These obligations are generally based on an average price and an assumed constant mix of products purchased, as appropriate. The Company and CEZUS have reached an agreement in principle to extend their operating agreement through 2011. The Company expects to enter into an ISA annually with Contran subsequent to 2005. All open orders are for delivery in 2005. (5) These other obligations are recorded on the Companys balance sheet as of December 31, 2004 and consist of current income taxes payable, a contract for removal of environmental waste and obligations related to workers compensation bonds discussed in "Liquidity and Capital Resources Off balance sheet arrangements." The Company has excluded any potential commitment for funding of retirement and postretirement benefit plans from this table. However, such potential future contributions are discussed below, as appropriate, in "Liquidity and Capital Resources Defined benefit pension plans" and "Liquidity and Capital Resources Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions." 37 Off balance sheet arrangements. As more fully discussed in "Results of Operations Non operating income (expense)," the Company is the primary obligor on two $1.5 million workers compensation bonds issued on behalf of Freedom Forge. The Company has fully expensed the obligation under one of the bonds, but based upon current claims analysis, the Company has expensed only $0.2 million on the other bond, although it is potentially obligated for the remaining $1.3 million. Additionally, the Company has entered into letters of credit to collateralize (i) potential workers compensation claims in Ohio and Nevada and (ii) future usage of electricity in Nevada. The Companys excess availability under its U.S. credit agreement has been reduced by $2.3 million and $1.3 million, respectively, related to such letters of credit. Defined benefit pension plans. As of December 31, 2004, the Company maintains three defined benefit pension plans one each in the U.S., the U.K. and France. Prior to December 31, 2003, the U.S. maintained two plans, which were merged as of that date. The majority of the discussion below relates to the U.S. and U.K. plans, as the French plan is not material to the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets, Statements of Operations or Statements of Cash Flows. The Company recorded consolidated pension expense of $7.7 million, $8.9 million and $4.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Pension expense for these periods was calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, most significant of which are the discount rate and the expected long term rate of return. The discount rate the Company utilizes for determining pension expense and pension obligations is based on a review of long term bonds (10 to 15 year maturities) that receive one of the two highest ratings given by recognized rating agencies (generally Merrill Lynch, Moodys, Solomon Smith Barney and UBS Warburg) as well as composite indices provided by the Companys actuaries. Changes in the Companys discount rate over the past three years reflect the decline in such bond rates during that period. The Company establishes a rate that is used to determine obligations as of the year end date and expense for the subsequent year. The Company used the following discount rate assumptions for its pension plans: Discount rates used for: Obligation at Obligation at Obligation at December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 December 31, 2002 and expense in 2005 and expense in 2004 and expense in 2003 U.S. Plan(s) 5.65% 6.00% 6.25% U.K. Plan 5.30% 5.50% 5.70% In developing the Companys expected long term rate of return assumptions, the Company evaluates historical market rates of return and input from its actuaries, including a review of asset class return expectations as well as long term inflation assumptions. Projected returns are based on broad equity (large cap, small cap and international) and bond (corporate and government) indices as well as anticipation that the plans active investment managers will generate premiums above the standard market projections. The Company used the following long term rate of return assumptions for its pension plans: Long term rates of return used for: Obligation at Obligation at Obligation at December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 December 31, 2002 and expense in 2005 and expense in 2004 and expense in 2003 U.S. Plan(s) 10.00% 10.00% 8.50% U.K. Plan 7.10% 7.10% 6.70% 38 Lowering the expected long term rate of return on the Companys U.S. plans assets by 0.5% (from 10.0% to 9.5%) would have increased 2004 pension expense by approximately $0.3 million, and lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 6.0% to 5.75%) would have increased the Companys U.S. plans 2004 pension expense by approximately $0.1 million. Lowering the expected long term rate of return on the Companys U.K. plans assets by 0.5% (from 7.1% to 6.6%) would have increased 2004 pension expense by approximately $0.5 million, and lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 5.5% to 5.25%) would have increased the Companys U.K. plans 2004 pension expense by approximately $0.8 million. During the second quarter of 2003, the Company transferred all of its U.S. plans assets into the Combined Master Retirement Trust ("CMRT"). The CMRT is a collective investment trust established by Valhi to permit the collective investment by certain master trusts which fund certain employee benefits plans sponsored by Valhi and certain related companies. The CMRT held 12% of TIMET common stock at December 31, 2004; however, the Companys plan assets are invested only in a portion of the CMRT that does not hold TIMET common stock. At December 31, 2004, Valhi and related entities or persons (excluding the CMRT) held approximately 40.8% of TIMETs outstanding common stock and approximately 41.3% of the Companys Series A Preferred Stock. Harold C. Simmons, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Valhi and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of TIMET, is the sole trustee of the CMRT, a member of the trust investment committee for the CMRT. The CMRTs long term investment objective is to provide a rate of return exceeding a composite of broad market equity and fixed income indices (including the S&P 500 and certain Russell indices) utilizing both third party investment managers as well as investments directed by Mr. Simmons. During the 17 year history of the CMRT, the average annual rate of return earned by the CMRT, as calculated based on the average percentage change in the CMRTs net asset value per CMRT unit for each applicable year, was 12.7%. The CMRT earned an annual return of 18.0% in 2004, and the CMRTs last 5 year and 10 year average annual returns were 12.4% and 12.7%, respectively. The CMRTs annual rates of return from inception through December 31, 2004 have varied from a high of a 42.2% return (in 1998) to a low of a 20.7% loss (in 1990). During that same period, the S&P 500s annual rates of return have varied from a high of a 34.1% return (in 1995) to a low of a 23.4% loss (in 2002). At December 31, 2004, the CMRTs asset mix (based on an aggregate asset value of $539 million) was 77.1% U.S. equity securities, 7.2% foreign equity securities, 14.1% debt securities and 1.6% cash and other. The CMRT`s trustee and investment committee actively manage the investments within the CMRT. Such parties have in the past, and may again in the future, periodically change the relative asset mix based upon, among other things, advice they receive from third party advisors and their expectation as to what asset mix will generate the greatest overall return. Based on the above, the Company increased its long term rate of return assumption to 10.0% for December 31, 2003 pension obligations and for 2004 pension expense for its U.S. plan and maintained the assumption for December 31, 2004 pension obligations and 2005 pension expense. 39 Because of market fluctuations and prior funding strategies, actual asset allocation as of December 31, 2004 was 86.9% equity securities and 13.1% fixed income securities for the U.K. plan. During 2003, the trustees for the U.K. plan selected a new investment advisor (effective in 2004) for the U.K. plan and modified its asset allocation goals. The Companys future expected long term rate of return on plan assets for its U.K. plan is based on an asset allocation assumption of 80% equity securities and 20% fixed income securities by the end of 2005 and 60% equity securities and 40% fixed income securities by the end of 2007, and all current contributions to the plan are invested wholly in fixed income securities in order to gradually effect the shift. Based on various factors, including improved economic and market conditions, gains on the plan assets during 2003 and projected asset mix, the Company increased its assumed long term rate of return for December 31, 2003 pension obligations and for 2004 pension expense to 7.10% for its U.K. plan and maintained the assumption for December 31, 2004 pension obligations and for 2005 pension expense. Although the expected rate of return is a long term measure, the Company will continue to evaluate its expected rate of return, at least annually, and will adjust it as considered necessary. The expected return on the fair value of the plan assets, determined based on the expected long term rate of return, is a component of pension expense. This methodology further recognizes actual investment gains or losses (i.e., the difference between the expected and actual returns based on the market value of assets) in pension expense through amortization in future periods based upon the expected average remaining service life of the plan participants. Unrealized gains or losses may impact future periods to the extent the accumulated gains or losses are outside the "corridor" as defined by SFAS No. 87. Based on an expected rate of return on plan assets of 10.0%, a discount rate of 5.65% and various other assumptions, the Company estimates that its U.S. plan will have pension expense of approximately $0.3 million in 2005 and approximately $11,000 in 2006 and pension income of approximately $0.4 million in 2007. A 0.25% increase (decrease) in the discount rate would decrease (increase) projected pension expense by approximately $0.1 million in 2005 and 2006 and increase (decease) projected pension income by approximately $0.1 million in 2007. A 0.5% increase (decrease) in the long term rate of return would decrease (increase) projected pension expense by approximately $0.3 million in 2005 and approximately $0.4 million in 2006 and increase (decrease) projected pension income by approximately $0.4 million in 2007. Based on an expected rate of return on plan assets of 7.1%, a discount rate of 5.3% and various other assumptions (including an exchange rate of $1.90/(pound)1.00), the Company estimates that pension expense for its U.K. plan will approximate $7.8 million in 2005, $7.0 million in 2006 and $6.3 million in 2007. A 0.25% increase (decrease) in the discount rate would decrease (increase) projected pension expense by approximately $0.8 million in 2005, $0.7 million in 2006 and $0.7 million in 2007. A 0.5% increase (decrease) in the long term rate of return would decrease (increase) projected pension expense by approximately $0.6 million in 2005, $0.7 million in 2006 and $0.9 million in 2007. Actual future pension expense will depend on actual future investment performance, changes in future discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in the Companys pension plans. 40 The Company made cash contributions of approximately $1.8 million in 2004, $4.4 million in 2003 and $1.2 million in 2002 to the U.S. plans and cash contributions of approximately $8.2 million in 2004, $7.3 million in 2003 and $6.1 million in 2002 to the U.K. plan. Based upon the current underfunded status of the plans and the actuarial assumptions being used for 2005, the Company believes that it will be required to make the following cash contributions (exclusive of any required employee contributions) over the next five years: Projected cash contributions U.S. Plan U.K.Plan Total (In millions, and using an exchange rate of$1.90/(pound)1.00 for U.K. plan ) Year ending December 31, 2005 $ $ 8.2 $ 8.2 2006 $ 0.2 $ 8.5 $ 8.7 2007 $ 0.3 $ 8.7 $ 9.0 2008 $ 3.1 $ 9.0 $ 12.1 2009 $ $ 9.3 $ 9.3 The U.S. plan(s) paid benefits of approximately $5.7 million in 2004, $5.6 million in 2003 and $5.4 million in 2002, and the U.K. plan paid benefits of approximately $4.7 million in 2004, $4.3 million in 2003 and $4.1 million in 2002. Based upon current projections, the Company believes the plans will be required to pay the following benefits over the next ten years: Projected retirement benefits U.S. Plan U.K.Plan Total (In millions, and using an exchange rate of$1.90/(pound)1.00 for U.K. plan ) Year ending December 31, 2005 $ 5.8 $ 4.9 $ 10.7 2006 $ 5.9 $ 5.1 $ 11.0 2007 $ 5.9 $ 5.2 $ 11.1 2008 $ 5.9 $ 5.4 $ 11.3 2009 $ 5.9 $ 5.5 $ 11.4 2010 through 2014 $ 29.3 $ 29.9 $ 59.2 The value of the plans assets has fluctuated dramatically over the past three years based mainly on performance of the plans equity securities. The U.S. plans assets were $67.2 million, $60.7 million and $48.2 million at December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and the U.K. plans assets were $121.0 million, $97.8 million and $69.8 million at December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. 41 The combination of actual investment returns, changing discount rates and changes in other assumptions has a significant effect on the Companys funded plan status (plan assets compared to projected benefit obligations). In 2004, the effect of positive investment returns and cash contributions was more than offset by the decline in the discount rate and certain changes in mortality and other retirement assumptions, thereby increasing the under funded status of the U.S. plan by $1.3 million to $11.4 million at December 31, 2004. In 2004, the effect of positive investment returns in the U.K. plan was also more than offset by the decline in the discount rate and certain changes in mortality and retirement assumptions, as well as the effect of the weakening dollar compared to the British pound sterling, thereby increasing the underfunded status of the U.K. plan by $8.4 million to $62.0 million at December 31, 2004. The U.S. and U.K. plans were underfunded by $10.1 million and $53.6 million, respectively, at December 31, 2003. Based upon the change in the funded status of the plans during 2004, the Company was required to record a net additional minimum pension liability charge (net of tax) to equity of $8.9 million, reflecting additional comprehensive loss of $2.5 million for the U.S. plan and $6.4 million related to the U.K. plan. Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions. The Company provides limited postretirement healthcare and life insurance ("OPEB") benefits to a portion of its U.S. employees upon retirement. The Company funds such OPEB benefits as they are incurred, net of any retiree contributions. The Company paid OPEB benefits, net of retiree contributions, of $2.5 million in 2004, $3.1 million in 2003 and $4.6 million in 2002. The Company recorded consolidated OPEB expense of $3.0 million in 2004, $2.7 million in 2003 and $2.9 million in 2002. OPEB expense for these periods was calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, most significant of which are the discount rate and the expected long term health care trend rate. The discount rate the Company utilizes for determining OPEB expense and OPEB obligations is the same as that used for the Companys U.S. pension plans. Lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 6.0% to 5.75%) would have increased the Companys 2004 OPEB expense by less than $0.1 million. The Company estimates the expected long term health care trend rate based upon input from specialists in this area, as provided by the Companys actuaries. In estimating the health care trend rate, the Company considers industry trends, the Companys actual healthcare cost experience and the Companys future benefit structure. For 2004, the Company used a beginning health care trend rate of 10.35%, which is projected to reduce to an ultimate rate of 4.0% in 2010. If the health care trend rate changed by 1.00% for each year, OPEB expense would have increased/decreased by approximately $0.3 million in 2004. For 2005, the Company is using a beginning health care trend rate of 9.29%, which is projected to reduce to an ultimate rate of 4.0% in 2010. Based on a discount rate of 5.65%, a health care trend rate as discussed above and various other assumptions, the Company estimates that OPEB expense will approximate $3.4 million in 2005, $3.3 million in 2006 and $3.2 million in 2007. A 0.25% increase (decrease) in the discount rate would decrease (increase) projected OPEB expense by less than $0.1 million in 2005, 2006 and 2007. A 1.0% increase (decrease) in the health care trend rate for each year would increase (decrease) the projected service and interest cost components of OPEB expense by approximately $0.3 million in 2005, 2006 and 2007. 42 Based upon current projections, the Company will be required to pay the following OPEB benefits, net of retiree contributions, over the next ten years: Projected OPEB payments (In millions) Year ending December 31, 2005 $ 2.8 2006 $ 2.9 2007 $ 3.0 2008 $ 3.1 2009 $ 3.3 2010 through 2014 $ 18.1 Environmental matters. See "Business Regulatory and environmental matters" in Item 1 and Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of environmental matters. Other. The Company periodically evaluates its liquidity requirements, capital needs and availability of resources in view of, among other things, its alternative uses of capital, debt service requirements, the cost of debt and equity capital and estimated future operating cash flows. As a result of this process, the Company has in the past, or in light of its current outlook, may in the future, seek to raise additional capital, modify its common and preferred dividend policies, restructure ownership interests, incur, refinance or restructure indebtedness, repurchase shares of common stock, purchase or redeem BUCS or Series A Preferred Stock, sell assets, or take a combination of such steps or other steps to increase or manage its liquidity and capital resources. In the normal course of business, the Company investigates, evaluates, discusses and engages in acquisition, joint venture, strategic relationship and other business combination opportunities in the titanium, specialty metal and other industries. In the event of any future acquisition or joint venture opportunities, the Company may consider using then available liquidity, issuing equity securities or incurring additional indebtedness. Corporations that may be deemed to be controlled by or affiliated with Mr. Simmons sometimes engage in (i) intercorporate transactions such as guarantees, management and expense sharing arrangements, shared fee arrangements, joint ventures, partnerships, loans, options, advances of funds on open account, and sales, leases and exchanges of assets, including securities issued by both related and unrelated parties, and (ii) common investment and acquisition strategies, business combinations, reorganizations, recapitalizations, securities repurchases, and purchases and sales (and other acquisitions and dispositions) of subsidiaries, divisions or other business units, which transactions have involved both related and unrelated parties and have included transactions which resulted in the acquisition by one related party of a publicly held minority equity interest in another related party. The Company continuously considers, reviews and evaluates such transactions, and understands that Contran, Valhi and related entities consider, review and evaluate such transactions. Depending upon the business, tax and other objectives then relevant, it is possible that the Company might be a party to one or more such transactions in the future. 43 During the first nine months of 2004, the Company purchased 2,212,820 shares of CompX Class A common shares, representing approximately 14.6% of the total number of shares of all classes of CompX common stock outstanding. As of September 30, 2004, NL, a subsidiary of Valhi, held an additional 68.4% of CompX. Effective on October 1, 2004, the Company and NL contributed 100% of their respective holdings on that date of all classes of CompX common stock to CompX Group, Inc. ("CGI") in return for a 17.6% and 82.4% ownership interest in CGI, respectively, and CGI became the owner of the 83.0% of CompX that the Company and NL had previously held in the aggregate. The CompX shares are the sole assets of CGI. The Companys shares of CGI are redeemable at the option of the Company based upon the market value of the underlying CompX stock held by CGI. The fair value of the Companys investment in CGI is based on the market value of the underlying CompX shares. During the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company purchased an additional 336,700 shares of CompX and as of December 31, 2004, the Company held (directly and through its investment in CGI) approximately 16.8% of the total number of shares of all classes of CompX common stock outstanding. None of the shares purchased subsequent to September 30, 2004 have been, or are expected to be, contributed to CGI. Depending upon the Companys evaluation of the business and prospects of CompX, and upon future developments (including, but not limited to, performance of the Class A Shares in the market, availability of funds, alternative uses of funds, and money, stock market and general economic conditions), TIMET may from time to time purchase, dispose of, or cease buying or selling Class A Shares. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The Companys Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments, and select from a range of possible estimates and assumptions, that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reported period. On an on going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable, inventory allowances, asset lives, impairments of investments in marketable securities and investments accounted for by the equity method, the recoverability of other long lived assets, including property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets, pension and other post retirement benefit obligations and the related underlying actuarial assumptions, the realization of deferred income tax assets, and accruals for asset retirement obligations, environmental remediation, litigation, income tax and other contingencies. The Company bases its estimates and judgments, to varying degrees, on historical experience, advice of external specialists and various other factors it believes to be prudent under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from previously estimated amounts and such estimates, assumptions and judgments are regularly subject to revision. The policies and estimates discussed below are considered by management to be critical to an understanding of the Companys financial statements because their application requires the most significant judgments from management in estimating matters for financial reporting that are inherently uncertain. See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these policies and estimates, as well as discussion of additional accounting policies and estimates. 44 Inventory allowances. The Company values approximately 40% of its inventory using the LIFO method, with the remainder stated primarily using an average cost method. The Company periodically reviews its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory and records any write down equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and its estimated net realizable value based upon assumptions about alternative uses, market conditions and other factors. Impairment of long lived assets. Generally, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of long lived assets, including property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets, may not be recoverable, the Company undertakes an evaluation of the assets or asset group. If this evaluation indicates that the carrying amount of the asset or asset group is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment would typically be calculated using discounted expected future cash flows or appraised values. All relevant factors are considered in determining whether an impairment exists. In 2004, no such events or circumstances indicated the need to perform such evaluation. During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company completed an entity wide impairment assessment in response to continued poor conditions in the commercial aerospace market. In order to complete this assessment, the Company identified its lowest level of identifiable cash flows, resulting in the identification of four asset groups U.S., U.K., France and Italy. Of these asset groups, Italy is not reliant on sales into the commercial aerospace market and therefore an analysis of the potential impairment of this asset group was not considered necessary, so only the U.S., U.K. and France asset groups were evaluated. The result of this assessment led the Company to conclude that there was no impairment related to the long lived assets in these three asset groups tested, as the undiscounted cash flows exceeded the net carrying value of the applicable net assets in each of the three asset groups. Although management utilizes certain external information sources such as The Airline Monitor as the basis for aerospace sales volume projections, significant management judgment is required in estimating other factors that are material to future cash flows including, but not limited to, customer demand, the Companys market position, selling prices, competitive forces and manufacturing costs. Future cash flows are inherently uncertain, and there can be no assurance that the Company will achieve the future cash flows reflected in its projections. The Company also completed an impairment assessment of its goodwill and intangible assets upon its adoption of SFAS No. 142 in 2002, which resulted in a non cash goodwill impairment charge of $44.3 million. See "Results of Operations Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle" and Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Valuation and impairment of securities. In accordance with SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, the Companys marketable securities acquired in 2004, including the shares of CompX contributed by the Company and held by CGI (based upon the Companys redemption option), are classified as available for sale securities and are carried at fair value based upon quoted market prices, with unrealized gains and or losses included in stockholders equity as a component of other comprehensive income. The Company evaluates its investments in marketable securities whenever events or conditions occur to indicate that the fair value of such investments has declined below their carrying amounts. If the decline in fair value is judged to be other than temporary, the carrying amount of the security is written down to fair value. In 2004, no such events or circumstances indicated the need to perform such evaluation. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 45 In the fourth quarter of 2001 and the first quarter of 2002, the Company undertook assessments of its investment in SMC. Those assessments indicated that it was unlikely that the Company would recover its then existing carrying amount of the SMC securities in accordance with the securities contractual terms and that an other than temporary decline in the fair value of its investment had occurred. Accordingly, the Company recorded impairment charges of $61.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2001 and $27.5 million in the first quarter of 2002. The securities were not publicly traded and, accordingly, quoted market prices were unavailable. The estimate of fair value required significant judgment and considered a number of factors including, but not limited to, the financial health and prospects of SMC and market yields of comparable securities. Deferred income tax valuation allowances. Under SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, and related guidance, the Company is required to record a valuation allowance if realization of deferred tax assets is not "more likely than not." Substantial weight must be given to recent historical results and near term projections, and management must assess the availability of tax planning strategies that might impact either the need for, or amount of, any valuation allowance. See "Results of Operations Income taxes" for discussion of the Companys analysis of its deferred income tax valuation allowances. Pension and OPEB expenses and obligations. The Companys pension and OPEB expenses and obligations are calculated based on several estimates, including discount rates, expected rates of returns on plan assets and expected health care trend rates. The Company reviews these rates annually with the assistance of its actuaries. See further discussion of the factors considered and potential effect of these estimates in "Liquidity and Capital Resources Defined benefit pension plans" and "Liquidity and Capital Resources Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions." Revenue recognition. Sales revenue is generally recognized when the Company has certified that its product meets the related customer specifications, the product has been shipped, and title and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the customer. Payments received from customers in advance of these criteria being met are recorded as customer advances until earned. Amounts charged to customers for shipping and handling are included in net sales. Sales revenue is stated net of price and early payment discounts. Other loss contingencies. Accruals for estimated loss contingencies, including, but not limited to, product related liabilities, environmental remediation and litigation, are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Disclosure is made when there is a reasonable possibility that a loss may have been incurred. Contingent liabilities are often resolved over long time periods. Estimating probable losses often requires analysis of various projections that are dependent upon the future outcome of multiple factors, including costs, the findings of investigations and actions by the Company and third parties. 46 ITEM 7A: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest rates. The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates related to indebtedness. The Company typically does not enter into interest rate swaps or other types of contracts in order to manage its interest rate market risk. At December 31, 2004, all of the Companys bank indebtedness was denominated in U.S. dollars and bore interest at variable rates, generally related to spreads over bank prime rates and LIBOR. Because the Companys bank indebtedness reprices with changes in market interest rates, the carrying amount of such debt is believed to approximate fair value. At December 31, 2003, the Company had no bank indebtedness. The following table summarizes the Companys bank variable rate indebtedness and related maturities as of December 31, 2004: Contractual maturity date Interest 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 rate (1) (In millions) U. S. dollars $ 43.2 $ $ $ $ 4.3% (1) Weighted average. The Subordinated Debentures held by the Capital Trust provide a fixed 6.625% coupon and are exposed to market risk from changing interest rates. The BUCS issued by the Capital Trust are publicly traded and may provide the best available proxy for the fair value of the underlying Subordinated Debentures. Based upon the last traded value of the BUCS on or before December 31, 2004 ($16.00 per BUCS), the fair value of the outstanding Subordinated Debentures related to the 115,717 outstanding BUCS approximated $1.9 million at December 31, 2004. Foreign currency exchange rates. The Company is exposed to market risk arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of its international operations. The Company does not enter into currency forward contracts to manage its foreign exchange market risk associated with receivables, payables or indebtedness denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the particular entity. See "Results of Operations European operations" in Item 7 MD&A for further discussion. Commodity prices. The Company is exposed to market risk arising from changes in commodity prices as a result of its long term purchase and supply agreements with certain suppliers and customers. These agreements, which offer various fixed or formula determined pricing arrangements, effectively obligate the Company to bear (i) the risk of increased raw material and other costs to the Company that cannot be passed on to the Companys customers through increased titanium product prices (in whole or in part) or (ii) the risk of decreasing raw material costs to the Companys suppliers that are not passed on to the Company in the form of lower raw material prices. Securities prices. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company acquired certain publicly traded equity securities that are exposed to market risk due to changes in prices of the securities as reported on the New York Stock Exchange. The aggregate market value of these equity securities at December 31, 2004 was $47.2 million, as compared to a cost basis of $34.6 million. The potential change in the aggregate market value of these securities, assuming a 10% change in prices, would be $4.7 million at December 31, 2004. See also Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 47 
 
