Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A"), are forward looking statements that represent managements beliefs and assumptions based on currently available information. Forward looking statements can generally be identified by the use of words such as "believes," "intends," "may," "will," "looks," "should," "could," "anticipates," "expects" or comparable terminology or by discussions of strategies or trends. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward looking statements are reasonable, it cannot give any assurance that these expectations will prove to be correct. Such statements by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results. Actual future results could differ materially from those described in such forward looking statements, and the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Quarterly Report, including risks and uncertainties in those portions referenced above and those described from time to time in the Companys other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") which include, but are not limited to, the cyclicality of the commercial aerospace industry, the performance of aerospace manufacturers and the Company under their long term agreements, the existence or renewal of certain long term agreements, the difficulty in forecasting demand for titanium products, global economic and political conditions, global productive capacity for titanium, changes in product pricing and costs, the impact of long term contracts with vendors on the ability of the Company to reduce or increase supply, the possibility of labor disruptions, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, fluctuations in the market price of marketable securities, control by certain stockholders and possible conflicts of interest, uncertainties associated with new product or new market development, the availability of raw materials and services, changes in raw material prices and other operating costs (including energy costs), possible disruption of business or increases in the cost of doing business resulting from terrorist activities or global conflicts, the potential for adjustment of the Companys deferred income tax asset valuation allowance and other risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks materialize (or the consequences of such a development worsen), or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from those forecasted or expected. PART I ITEM 1: BUSINESS General. Titanium Metals Corporation ("TIMET" or the "Company") was originally formed in 1950 and was incorporated in Delaware in 1955. TIMET is one of the worlds leading producers of titanium melted and mill products. The Company is the only producer with major titanium production facilities in both the United States and Europe, the worlds principal markets for titanium consumption. TIMET is currently the only major producer of titanium sponge, a key raw material, in the United States. Titanium was first manufactured for commercial use in the 1950s. Titaniums unique combination of corrosion resistance, elevated temperature performance and high strength to weight ratio makes it particularly desirable for use in commercial and military aerospace applications where these qualities are essential design requirements for certain critical parts such as wing supports and jet engine components. While aerospace applications have historically accounted for a substantial portion of the worldwide demand for titanium, the number of non aerospace end use markets for titanium has expanded substantially. Today, numerous industrial uses for titanium exist, including chemical plants, power plants, desalination plants and pollution control equipment. Demand for titanium is also increasing in emerging markets with such diverse uses as offshore oil and gas production installations, automotive, geothermal facilities and architectural applications. TIMETs products include titanium sponge, melted products, mill products and industrial fabrications. The titanium industry is comprised of several manufacturers that, like TIMET, produce a relatively complete range of titanium products and a significant number of producers worldwide that manufacture a limited range of titanium mill products. The Companys long term strategy is to maximize the value of its core aerospace business while also developing new markets, applications and products to help reduce its historical dependence on the commercial aerospace industry. In the near term, the Company continues to focus on maintaining a lean cost structure, managing its raw material requirements, improving the quality of its products and processes and taking other actions to maximize its cash flow and profitability. Industry. The Company develops certain industry estimates based on its extensive experience within the titanium industry as well as information obtained from publicly available external resources (e.g., United States Geological Survey, International Titanium Association and Japan Titanium Society). The Company estimates that it accounted for approximately 18% and 19% of worldwide industry shipments of titanium mill products in 2005 and 2004, respectively, and approximately 8% and 10% of worldwide titanium sponge production in 2005 and 2004, respectively. The following table illustrates the Companys estimates of aggregate titanium industry mill product shipments during 2005 and 2004: Year ended December 31, % 2005 2004 change (metric tons) Mill product shipments to: Commercial aerospace sector 24,000 20,900 +15% Military sector 6,200 4,700 +32% Industrial sector 35,600 32,300 +10% Emerging markets sector 2,700 2,300 +17% Aggregate mill product shipments to all sectors 68,500 60,200 +14% The titanium industry historically has derived a substantial portion of its business from the commercial aerospace sector. Demand for titanium products within the commercial aerospace sector is derived from both jet engine components (e.g., blades, discs, rings and engine cases) and airframe components (e.g., bulkheads, tail sections, landing gear, wing supports and fasteners). The commercial aerospace sector has a significant influence on titanium companies, particularly mill product producers such as TIMET. The Companys business is more dependent on commercial aerospace demand than is the overall titanium industry, as approximately 59% of the Companys mill product shipment volume in 2005 was to the commercial aerospace sector, whereas, as indicated by the above table, approximately 35% of the overall titanium industrys shipment volume in 2005 was to the commercial aerospace sector. The cyclical nature of the commercial aerospace industry has been the principal driver of the historical fluctuations in the performance of most titanium companies. Over the past 20 years, the titanium industry had cyclical peaks in mill product shipments in 1989, 1997 and 2001 and cyclical lows in 1983, 1991, 1999 and 2003. Prior to 2004, demand for titanium reached its highest level in 1997 when industry mill product shipments reached approximately 60,700 metric tons. However, since 1997, industry mill product shipments have fluctuated significantly, primarily due to a continued change in demand for titanium from the commercial aerospace sector. The Company estimates that industry shipments approximated 60,200 metric tons in 2004 and 68,500 metric tons in 2005. The Company currently expects 2006 total industry mill product shipments to increase by only 5% to 10% as compared to 2005, due to tightness of raw material supply. The Airline Monitor, a leading aerospace publication, traditionally issues forecasts for commercial aircraft deliveries each January and July. According to The Airline Monitor, large commercial aircraft deliveries for the 1996 to 2005 period peaked in 1999 with 889 aircraft, including 254 wide body aircraft that use substantially more titanium than their narrow body counterparts. Large commercial aircraft deliveries totaled 650 (including 152 wide bodies) in 2005. The following table summarizes The Airline Monitors most recently issued forecast (January 2006) for large commercial aircraft deliveries over the next five years: % increase (decrease) Forecasted deliveries over previous year Year Total Wide bodies Total Wide bodies 2006 840 193 29.2% 27.0% 2007 920 217 9.5% 12.4% 2008 985 259 7.1% 19.4% 2009 1,030 294 4.6% 13.5% 2010 1,030 314 6.8% The latest forecast from The Airline Monitor reflects a significant increase from earlier such forecasts, in large part due to record levels of new orders placed for Boeing and Airbus models during 2005. Total order bookings for Boeing and Airbus in 2005 were 2,109 planes. Expectations are that new orders in 2006 will be significantly lower than 2005; however, the strong bookings in 2005 have increased the order backlog for both Boeing and Airbus in support of this increased forecast. Deliveries of titanium generally precede aircraft deliveries by about one year, although this varies considerably by titanium product. This correlates to the Companys cycle, which historically precedes the cycle of the aircraft industry and related deliveries. Although persistently high oil prices have had an adverse impact on the commercial airline industry, global commercial airline traffic increased in 2005 compared to 2004. The Company estimates that 2006 industry mill product shipments into the commercial aerospace sector will increase 15% to 20%, as compared to 2005. Wide body planes tend to use a higher percentage of titanium in their airframes, engines and parts than narrow body planes. Newer models of planes tend to use a higher percentage of titanium than older models. Newer wide body models such as the Airbus A380 and the Boeing 787 Dreamliner are expected to use an even greater quantity of titanium than previous wide body models. See further discussion of titanium usage for these new planes in "Business Markets and customer base." Titanium shipments into the military sector are largely driven by government defense spending in North America and Europe. Military aerospace programs were the first to utilize titaniums unique properties on a large scale, beginning in the 1950s. Titanium shipments to military aerospace markets reached a peak in the 1980s before falling to historical lows in the early 1990s after the end of the Cold War. In recent years, titanium has become an accepted use in ground combat vehicles as well as in Naval applications. The importance of military markets to the titanium industry is expected to continue to rise in coming years as defense spending budgets increase in reaction to terrorist activities and global conflicts. Several of todays active U.S. military programs, including the C 17, F/A 18, F 16 and F 15 are expected to continue in production through the end of the current decade. However, a recent Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) recommends that the US Air Force stop procurement of the C 17 with the 180 planes it now has on order, but this recommendation still must go through the federal budget process. Without further orders, the C 17 production line will close in 2008. In addition to the established C 17, F/A 18 and F 16 programs, new U.S. programs offer growth opportunities for increased titanium consumption. The F/A 22 Raptor was given full rate production approval in April 2005. According to The Teal Group, a leading independent aerospace publication, the U.S. Air Force would like to purchase 381 aircraft, but the Department of Defense is now planning for only 179. However, additional F/A 22 Raptors may be manufactured for sale to foreign nations. In October 2001, Lockheed Martin Corporation was awarded the contract for construction of the F 35 Joint Strike Fighter ("JSF"). The JSF is expected to enter low rate initial production in late 2006, with delivery of the first production aircraft in 2009. Although no specific delivery patterns have been established, procurement is expected to extend over the next 30 to 40 years and to include as many as 3,000 to 4,000 planes, including sales to foreign nations. European military programs also have active aerospace programs offering the possibility for increased titanium consumption. Production levels for the Saab Gripen, Eurofighter Typhoon, Dassault Rafale and Dassault Mirage 2000 are all forecasted to remain steady through the end of the decade. Utilization of titanium on military ground combat vehicles for armor applique and integrated armor or structural components continues to gain acceptance within the military market segment. Titanium armor components provide the necessary ballistic performance while achieving a mission critical vehicle performance objective of reduced weight. In order to counteract increased threat levels, titanium is being utilized on vehicle upgrade programs in addition to new builds. Based on active programs, as well as programs currently under evaluation, the Company believes there will be additional usage of titanium on ground combat vehicles that will provide continued growth in the military market sector. In armor and armament, the Company sells plate and sheet products for fabrication into applique plate for protection application of the entire ground combat vehicle as well as the primary vehicle structure. Since titaniums initial applications, the number of end use markets for titanium has significantly expanded. Established industrial uses for titanium include chemical plants, power plants, desalination plants and pollution control equipment. Rapid growth of the Chinese and other Southeast Asian economies has brought unprecedented demand for titanium intensive industrial equipment. In November 2005, the Company entered into a joint venture with XIAN BAOTIMET VALINOX TUBES CO. LTD. ("BAOTIMET") to produce welded titanium tubing in the Peoples Republic of China. BAOTIMETs production facilities will be located in Xian, China, and production is expected to begin in early 2007. Titanium continues to gain acceptance in many emerging market applications, including automotive, energy (including oil and gas) and architecture. Although titanium is generally higher cost than other competing metals, in many cases customers find the physical properties of titanium to be attractive from the standpoint of weight, performance, longevity, design alternatives, life cycle value and other factors. The Company continues to explore opportunities in these emerging market applications through marketing initiatives, research and development and proprietary alloys designed to provide more cost effective alternatives for these markets. Although the Company estimates that emerging market demand presently represents only about 4% of the 2005 total industry demand for titanium mill products, the Company believes emerging market demand, in the aggregate, could grow at double digit rates over the next several years. The Company continues to actively pursue these markets and was able to grow its mill product shipments into emerging markets by more than 50% during 2005 as compared to 2004. Beginning in 2005, the Company no longer includes armor and armament related sales as part of its emerging markets sector, as titanium usage has become widely accepted for such applications. Accordingly, all such sales are now included in the Companys military sector and all prior periods have been restated to conform to this presentation. The automotive market continues to be an attractive emerging market due to its potential for sustainable long term growth. TiMET Automotive is focused on developing and marketing proprietary alloys and processes specifically suited for automotive applications. Titanium is now used in several consumer car applications as well as in numerous motorcycles. At the present time, titanium is primarily used for exhaust systems, suspension springs, engine valves, connecting rods and turbocharger compressor wheels in consumer and commercial vehicles. In exhaust systems, titanium provides for significant weight savings, while its corrosion resistance provides life of vehicle durability. In suspension spring applications, titaniums low modulus of elasticity allows the springs height to be reduced by 20% to 40% compared to a steel spring, which, when combined with the titaniums low density, permits 30% to 60% weight savings over steel spring suspension systems. Titanium engine components provide mass reduction benefits that directly improve vehicle performance and fuel economy. The application of titanium to turbocharger compressor wheels is part of a solution to meet U.S. and European Union government regulated diesel engine emissions requirements. TIMETAL proprietary alloys provide cost effective optimized performance for the various target applications. The decision to select titanium components for consumer car, truck and motorcycle components remains highly cost sensitive; however, the Company believes titaniums acceptance in consumer vehicles will expand as the automotive industry continues to better understand the benefits titanium offers. The oil and gas market utilizes titanium for down hole logging tools, critical riser components, fire water systems and saltwater cooling systems. Additionally, as offshore development of new oil and gas fields moves into the ultra deep water depths, market demand for titaniums light weight, high strength and corrosion resistance properties is creating new opportunities for the material. The Company has a group dedicated to developing the expansion of titanium use in this market and in other non aerospace applications. Products and operations. The Company is a vertically integrated titanium manufacturer whose products include: (i) titanium sponge, the basic form of titanium metal used in titanium products; (ii) melted products (ingot, electrodes and slab), the result of melting sponge and titanium scrap, either alone or with various alloys; (iii) mill products that are forged and rolled from ingot or slab, including long products (billet and bar), flat products (plate, sheet and strip) and pipe; and (iv) fabrications (spools, pipefittings, manifolds, vessels, etc.) that are cut, formed, welded and assembled from titanium mill products During the past three years, all of TIMETs net sales were generated by the Companys integrated titanium operations (its "Titanium melted and mill products" segment), its only business segment. Business and geographic financial information is included in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Titanium sponge (so called because of its appearance) is the commercially pure, elemental form of titanium metal. The first step in TIMETs sponge production involves the combination of titanium containing rutile ores (derived from beach sand) with chlorine and petroleum coke to produce titanium tetrachloride. Titanium tetrachloride is purified and then reacted with magnesium in a closed system, producing titanium sponge and magnesium chloride as co products. The Companys titanium sponge production facility in Henderson, Nevada incorporates vacuum distillation process ("VDP") technology, which removes the magnesium and magnesium chloride residues by applying heat to the sponge mass while maintaining a vacuum in the chamber. The combination of heat and vacuum boils the residues from the sponge mass, and then the mass is mechanically pushed out of the distillation vessel, sheared and crushed, while the residual magnesium chloride is electrolytically separated and recycled. Titanium ingot is a cylindrical solid shape that, in TIMETs case, weighs up to 8 metric tons. Titanium slab is a rectangular solid shape that, in TIMETs case, weighs up to 16 metric tons. Each ingot or slab is formed by melting titanium sponge, scrap or both, usually with various other alloys such as vanadium, aluminum, molybdenum, tin and zirconium. The melting process for ingot and slab is closely controlled and monitored utilizing computer control systems to maintain product quality and consistency and to meet customer specifications. In most cases, TIMET uses its ingot and slab as the starting material for further processing into mill products. However, it also sells ingot, electrodes and slab to third parties. Titanium scrap is a by product of the forging, rolling, milling and machining operations, and significant quantities of scrap are generated in the production process for finished titanium products and components. The Company sends certain products either to the Companys service centers or to outside vendors for further processing before being shipped to customers. The Companys customers either process the Companys products for their ultimate end use or for sale to third parties. During the production process and following the completion of manufacturing, the Company performs extensive testing on its products. The inspection process is critical to ensuring that the Companys products meet the high quality requirements of its customers, particularly in aerospace component production. The Company certifies that its products meet customer specification at the time of shipment for substantially all customer orders. The Company currently is reliant on several outside processors (one of which is owned by a competitor) to perform certain rolling, finishing and other processing steps in the U.S., and certain melting and forging steps in France. In France, the processor is also a joint venture partner in the Companys 70% owned subsidiary, TIMET Savoie, S.A. ("TIMET Savoie"). During the past several years, the Company has made significant strides toward reducing the reliance on competitor owned sources for these services, so that any interruption in these functions should not have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Distribution. The Company sells its products through its own sales force based in the U.S. and Europe and through independent agents and distributors worldwide. The Companys distribution system also includes eight Company owned service centers (five in the U.S. and three in Europe), which sell the Companys products on a just in time basis. The service centers primarily sell value added and customized mill products, including bar, sheet, plate, tubing and strip. The Company believes its service centers provide a competitive advantage because of their ability to foster customer relationships, customize products to suit specific customer requirements and respond quickly to customer needs. Raw materials. The principal raw materials used in the production of titanium ingot, slab and mill products are titanium sponge, titanium scrap and alloys. The following table summarizes the Companys 2005 raw material usage requirements in the production of its melted and mill products: Percentage of total raw material requirements Internally produced sponge 29% Purchased sponge 25% Titanium scrap 40% Alloys 6% 100% The primary raw materials used in the production of titanium sponge are titanium containing rutile ore, chlorine, magnesium and petroleum coke. Rutile ore is currently available from a limited number of suppliers around the world, principally located in Australia, South Africa and Sri Lanka. The Company purchases the majority of its supply of rutile ore from Australia. The Company believes the availability of rutile ore will be adequate for the foreseeable future and does not anticipate any interruptions of its rutile supplies. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience interruptions. Chlorine is currently obtained from a single supplier near the Companys sponge plant in Henderson, Nevada. While the Company does not presently anticipate any chlorine supply problems, there can be no assurances the chlorine supply will not be interrupted. In the event of supply disruption, the Company has taken steps to mitigate this risk, including establishing the feasibility of certain equipment modifications to enable it to utilize material from alternative chlorine suppliers or to purchase and utilize an intermediate product which will allow the Company to eliminate the purchase of chlorine if needed. Magnesium and petroleum coke are generally available from a number of suppliers. During 2005, the Company was the only major U.S. producer of titanium sponge and one of only six major worldwide producers (the others are located in Russia, Kazakhstan, the Ukraine and two in Japan). Additionally, there are two smaller sponge producers located in China. However, the Company cannot supply all of its needs for all grades of titanium sponge internally and is dependent, therefore, on third parties for a substantial portion of its sponge requirements. Titanium melted and mill products require varying grades of sponge and or scrap depending on the customers specifications and expected end use. Presently, TIMET and certain companies in Japan are the only producers of premium quality sponge that currently have complete approval for all significant demanding aerospace applications. Over the past few years, sponge producers in Russia and Kazakhstan have progressed in their efforts to obtain approval for the use of their sponge into all aerospace applications. This qualification process is likely to continue for several more years. Historically, the Company has purchased sponge predominantly from producers in Kazakhstan and Japan. In September 2002, the Company entered into a sponge supply agreement, effective from January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2007, which requires minimum annual purchases by the Company. The Company has no other long term sponge supply agreements. Since 2000, the Company has also purchased sponge from the U.S. Defense Logistics Agency ("DLA") stockpile; however, the DLA stockpile became fully depleted during 2005. The Company expects to continue to purchase sponge from a variety of sources during 2006. The Company utilizes titanium scrap at its melting locations that is either generated internally, purchased from certain of its customers under various buyback arrangements or purchased externally on the open market. Such scrap consists of alloyed and commercially pure solids and turnings. Internally produced scrap is generated in the Companys factories during both melting and mill product processing. Scrap obtained through customer buyback arrangements provides a "closed loop" arrangement resulting in greater supply and cost stability. Externally purchased scrap comes from a wide range of sources, including customers, collectors, processors and brokers. The Company anticipates that 30% to 35% of the scrap it will utilize during 2006 will be purchased from external suppliers, as compared to 35% to 40% for 2005, due to the Companys successful efforts to increase its closed loop arrangements. The Company also occasionally sells scrap, usually in a form or grade it cannot economically recycle. Market forces can significantly impact the supply or cost of externally produced scrap. The amount of scrap generated in the supply chain varies during the titanium business cycles. During the middle of the cycle, scrap generation and consumption are in relative equilibrium, minimizing disruptions in supply or significant changes in the available supply and market prices for scrap. Increasing or decreasing cycles tend to cause significant changes in both the supply and market price of scrap. Early in the titanium cycle, when the demand for titanium melted and mill products begins to increase, the Companys requirements (and those of other titanium manufacturers) precede the increase in scrap generation by downstream customers and the supply chain, placing upward pressure on the market price of scrap. The opposite situation occurs when demand for titanium melted and mill products begins to decline, resulting in greater availability of supply and placing downward pressure on the market price of scrap. As a net purchaser of scrap, the Company is susceptible to price increases during periods of increasing demand. This phenomenon normally results in higher selling prices for melted and mill products, which tends to offset the increased material costs. All of the Companys major competitors utilize scrap as a raw material in their melt operations. In addition to use by titanium manufacturers, titanium scrap is used in steel making operations during production of interstitial free steels, stainless steels and high strength low alloy steels. Recent strong demand for these steel products, especially from China, has produced a significant increase in demand for titanium scrap at a time when titanium scrap generation rates are at low levels, partly due to lower commercial aircraft build rates over the past few years. These events created a significantly tightened supply of titanium scrap during 2004 and 2005, and the Company expects this trend to continue during 2006. For TIMET, this will translate to lower availability and higher cost for externally purchased scrap in the near term. In 2005 the Company was somewhat limited in its ability to raise prices for the portion of its business that is subject to long term pricing agreements. The Companys ability to offset these increased material costs with higher selling prices should improve in 2006, as many of the Companys long term agreements ("LTAs") have either expired or have been renegotiated for 2006 with price adjustments that take into account raw material cost fluctuations. Additionally, the expected increase in commercial aircraft build rates over the next several years, as previously discussed, could have the effect of lessening the shortage of titanium scrap. Further, several titanium producers, including TIMET, have recently announced plans to expand their respective sponge producing capabilities. Although these expansions should help reduce the current imbalance of global supply and demand for raw materials, the Company does not believe the raw material shortage will be fully relieved at any time in the near future and therefore expects relatively high prices for raw materials to continue for at least the near term. Various alloys used in the production of titanium products are also available from a number of suppliers. However, the recent high level of global demand for steel products has also resulted in a significant increase in the costs for several alloys, such as vanadium and molybdenum. The cost of these alloys during 2005 was significantly higher than at any point during the past 10 years. Vanadium and Molybdenum costs peaked in the spring of 2005 and finished the year well below those levels. Although availability is not expected to be a concern and the Company has negotiated certain price and cost protection with suppliers and customers, there is no assurance that such alloy costs will not continue to fluctuate significantly in the near future. Customer agreements. The Company has LTAs with certain major customers, including, among others, The Boeing Company ("Boeing"), Rolls Royce plc and its German and U.S. affiliates ("Rolls Royce"), United Technologies Corporation ("UTC," Pratt & Whitney and related companies), Societe Nationale dEtude et de Construction de Moteurs dAviation ("Snecma"), Wyman Gordon Company ("Wyman Gordon," a unit of Precision Castparts Corporation ("PCC")) and VALTIMET SAS ("VALTIMET"). These agreements expire at various times from 2007 through 2012, are subject to certain conditions and generally provide for (i) minimum market shares of the customers titanium requirements or firm annual volume commitments, (ii) formula determined prices (although some contain elements based on market pricing) and (iii) price adjustments for certain raw material and energy cost fluctuations. Generally, the LTAs require the Companys service and product performance to meet specified criteria and contain a number of other terms and conditions customary in transactions of these types. Certain provisions of these LTAs have been amended in the past and may be amended in the future to meet changing business conditions. During 2005, 49% of the Companys sales revenues were from customers under LTAs. In certain events of nonperformance by the Company or the customer, the LTAs may be terminated early. Although it is possible that some portion of the business would continue on a non LTA basis, the termination of one or more of the LTAs could result in a material effect on the Companys business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. The LTAs were designed to limit selling price volatility to the customer, while providing TIMET with a committed base of volume throughout the aerospace business cycles. During the third quarter of 2003, the Company and Wyman Gordon agreed to terminate the 1998 purchase and sale agreement associated with the formation of the titanium castings joint venture previously owned by the two parties. The Company paid Wyman Gordon a total of $6.8 million in three quarterly installments in connection with this termination, which included the termination of certain favorable purchase terms. The Company recorded a one time charge for the entire $6.8 million as a reduction to sales in the third quarter of 2003. Concurrently, the Company entered into new long term purchase and sale agreements with Wyman Gordon that expire in 2008. Prior to July 1, 2005, under the terms of the previous LTA between TIMET and Boeing, in 2002 through 2007, Boeing would have been required to advance TIMET $28.5 million annually less $3.80 per pound of titanium product purchased by Boeing subcontractors under the Boeing LTA during the preceding year. Effectively, the Company collected $3.80 less from Boeing than the LTA selling price for each pound of titanium product sold directly to Boeing and reduced the related customer advance recorded by the Company. For titanium products sold to Boeing subcontractors, the Company collected the full LTA selling price, but gave Boeing credit by reducing the next years annual advance by $3.80 per pound. The Boeing customer advance was also reduced as the Company recognized income under the take or pay provisions of the LTA, as described in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Under a separate agreement, TIMET must establish and hold buffer inventory for Boeing at TIMETs facilities, for which Boeing will be invoiced by TIMET at LTA pricing when such material is processed into a mill product by TIMET. Effective July 1, 2005, the Company entered into a new LTA with Boeing. The new LTA expires on December 31, 2010 and provides for, among other things, (i) mutual annual purchase and supply commitments by both parties, (ii) continuation of the existing buffer inventory program currently in place for Boeing and (iii) certain improved product pricing, including certain adjustments for raw material cost fluctuations. Beginning in 2006, the new LTA also replaces the take or pay provisions of the previous LTA with an annual makeup payment early in the following year in the event Boeing purchases less than its annual volume commitment in any year. See Item 7 MD&A for additional information regarding the Boeing LTA. The Companys LTA with VALTIMET, a manufacturer of welded stainless steel and titanium tubing that is principally sold into the industrial markets, was entered into in 1997 and expires in 2007. VALTIMET is a 44% owned affiliate of TIMET. Under the VALTIMET LTA, TIMET has agreed to provide a certain percentage of VALTIMETs titanium requirements at formula determined selling prices, subject to certain conditions. Certain provisions of this contract have been amended in the past and may be amended in the future to meet changing business conditions. Markets and customer base. The following table summarizes the Companys sales revenue by geographical location: Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (Percentage of total sales revenue) Sales revenue to customers within: North America 56% 55% 55% Europe 36% 40% 38% Other 8% 5% 7% 100% 100% 100% Further information regarding the Companys external sales, net income, long lived assets and total assets can be found in the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Operations and Notes 6 and 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Substantially all of the Companys sales and operating income are derived from operations based in the U.S., the U.K., France and Italy. As shown in the below table, the Company generates more than half of its sales revenue from sales to the commercial aerospace sector. As previously noted, the Company has LTAs with certain major aerospace customers, including Boeing, Rolls Royce, UTC, Snecma and Wyman Gordon. This concentration of customers may impact the Companys overall exposure to credit and other risks, either positively or negatively, in that all of these customers may be similarly affected by the same economic or other conditions. The following table provides supplemental sales revenue information regarding the Companys dependence on the commercial aerospace sector and certain customer relationships: Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (Percentage of total sales revenue) Sales revenue to: Commercial aerospace sector 57% 57% 57% Customers under LTAs 49% 44% 41% Significant customers under LTAs: (1) Rolls Royce and other Rolls Royce suppliers (2) 12% 15% 15% Ten largest customers 45% 48% 44% Significant customers: (1) PCC and related entities 13% 13% 13% (1) Greater than 10% of net sales. (2) Includes direct sales to certain of the PCC related entities under the terms of the Rolls Royce LTAs. The primary market for titanium products in the commercial aerospace sector consists of two major manufacturers of large (over 100 seats) commercial airframes Boeing Commercial Airplanes Group (a unit of Boeing) and Airbus (80% owned by European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company and 20% owned by BAE Systems). In addition to the airframe manufacturers, the following four manufacturers of large civil aircraft engines are also significant titanium users Rolls Royce, General Electric Aircraft Engines, Pratt & Whitney and Snecma. The Companys sales are made both directly to these major manufacturers and to companies (including forgers such as Wyman Gordon) that use the Companys titanium to produce parts and other materials for such manufacturers. If any of the major aerospace manufacturers were to significantly reduce aircraft and or jet engine build rates from those currently expected, there could be a material adverse effect, both directly and indirectly, on the Companys business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. The backlogs for Boeing and Airbus reflect orders for aircraft to be delivered over several years. Changes in the economic environment and the financial condition of airlines can result in rescheduling or cancellation of contractual orders. Accordingly, aircraft manufacturer backlogs are not necessarily a reliable indicator of near term business activity, but may be indicative of potential business levels over a longer term horizon. The following table shows the estimated firm order backlogs for Boeing and Airbus, as reported by The Airline Monitor in January 2006: At December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Firm order backlog all planes: Airbus 2,177 1,500 1,454 Boeing 1,783 1,089 1,101 3,960 2,589 2,555 Firm order backlog wide body planes: Airbus 500 466 471 Boeing 671 287 230 1,171 753 701 Wide body planes as % of total firm order backlog 30% 29% 27% Wide body planes (e.g., Boeing 747, 777 and 787 and Airbus A330, A340, and A380) tend to use a higher percentage of titanium in their airframes, engines and parts than narrow body planes (e.g., Boeing 737 and 757 and Airbus A318, A319 and A320). Newer models of planes tend to use a higher percentage of titanium than older models. Additionally, Boeing generally uses a higher percentage of titanium in its airframes than Airbus. For example, the Company estimates that approximately 59 metric tons, 45 metric tons and 18 metric tons of titanium are purchased for the manufacture of each Boeing 777, 747 and 737, respectively, including both the airframes and engines. The Company estimates that approximately 25 metric tons, 18 metric tons and 12 metric tons of titanium are purchased for the manufacture of each Airbus A340, A330 and A320, respectively, including both the airframes and engines. At year end 2005, a total of 159 firm orders had been placed for the Airbus A380, a program officially launched in 2000 with anticipated first deliveries in 2006. Current estimates are that approximately 76 metric tons of titanium (50 metric tons for the airframe and 26 metric tons for the engines) will be purchased for each A380 manufactured. Additionally, at year end 2005, a total of 291 firm orders have been placed for the Boeing 787, a program officially launched in April 2004 with anticipated first deliveries in 2008. Although the 787 will contain more composite materials than a typical Boeing airplane, the Company estimates that approximately 91 metric tons of titanium (80 metric tons for the airframe and 11 metric tons for the engines) will be purchased for each 787 manufactured. The Company believes significant additional titanium will be required in the early years of 787 manufacturing until the program reaches maturity. During 2005, Airbus officially launched the A350 program, which is a major derivative of the Airbus A330 with first deliveries scheduled for 2010. As of December 31, 2005, firm booked orders received by Airbus for the A350 totaled 87 airplanes. These A350s will use composite materials and new engines similar to the ones used on the Boeing 787 and are expected to require significantly more titanium as compared with earlier Airbus models. The Companys preliminary estimates are that approximately 51 metric tons (40 metric tons for the airframe and 11 metric tons for the engines) will be purchased for each A350 manufactured. However, the final titanium buy weight may change as the A350 is still in the design phase. Outside of commercial aerospace and military sectors, the Company manufactures a wide range of products for customers in the chemical process, oil and gas, consumer, sporting goods, automotive and power generation. Approximately 15% of the Companys sales revenue in 2005 and 2004 and 16% in 2003 was generated by sales into industrial and emerging markets, including sales to VALTIMET for the production of welded tubing. For the oil and gas industry, the Company provides seamless pipe for downhole casing, risers, tapered stress joints and other offshore oil and gas production equipment, along with firewater piping systems. In addition to melted and mill products, which are sold into the commercial aerospace, military, industrial and emerging markets sectors, the Company sells certain other products such as titanium fabrications, titanium scrap and titanium tetrachloride. Sales of these other products represented 15% of the Companys sales revenue in 2005 and 13% in each of 2004 and 2003. The Companys backlog of unfilled orders was approximately $870 million at December 31, 2005, compared to $450 million at December 31, 2004 and $205 million at December 31, 2003. Over 90% of the 2005 year end backlog is scheduled for shipment during 2006. The Companys order backlog may not be a reliable indicator of future business activity. The Company has explored and will continue to explore strategic arrangements in the areas of product development, production and distribution. The Company will also continue to work with existing and potential customers to identify and develop new or improved applications for titanium that take advantage of its unique qualities. Competition. The titanium metals industry is highly competitive on a worldwide basis. Producers of melted and mill products are located primarily in the United States, Japan, France, Germany, Italy, Russia, China and the United Kingdom. In addition, producers of other metal products, such as steel and aluminum, maintain forging, rolling and finishing facilities that could be used or modified without substantial capital expenditures to process titanium products. There are currently six major, and several minor, producers of titanium sponge in the world. Four of the major producers have announced plans to increase sponge production capacity. TIMET is currently the only major U.S. sponge producer. The Company believes that entry as a new producer of titanium sponge would require a significant capital investment and substantial technical expertise. The Companys principal competitors in the aerospace titanium market are Allegheny Technologies Incorporated ("ATI") and RTI International Metals, Inc. ("RTI"), both based in the United States, and Verkhnaya Salda Metallurgical Production Organization ("VSMPO"), based in Russia. UNITI (a joint venture between ATI and VSMPO), RTI and certain Japanese producers are the Companys principal competitors in the industrial and emerging markets. The Company competes primarily on the basis of price, quality of products, technical support and the availability of products to meet customers delivery schedules. In the U.S. market, the increasing presence of non U.S. participants has become a significant competitive factor. Until 1993, imports of foreign titanium products into the U.S. had not been significant. This was primarily attributable to relative currency exchange rates and, with respect to Japan, Russia, Kazakhstan and Ukraine, import duties (including antidumping duties). However, since 1993, imports of titanium sponge, ingot and mill products, principally from Russia and Kazakhstan, have increased and have had a significant competitive impact on the U.S. titanium industry. To the extent the Company is able to take advantage of this situation by purchasing sponge from such countries for use in its own operations, the negative effect of these imports on the Company can be somewhat mitigated. Generally, imports of titanium products into the U.S. are subject to a 15% "normal trade relations" tariff. For tariff purposes, titanium products are broadly classified as either wrought (billet, bar, sheet, strip, plate and tubing) or unwrought (sponge, ingot and slab). Because a significant portion of end use products made from titanium products are ultimately exported, the Company, along with its principal competitors and many customers, actively utilize the duty drawback mechanism to recover most of the tariff paid on imports. From time to time, the U.S. government has granted preferential trade status to certain titanium products imported from particular countries (notably wrought titanium products from Russia, which carried no U.S. import duties from approximately 1993 until 2004). It is possible that such preferential status could be granted again in the future. The Japanese government has raised the elimination or harmonization of tariffs on titanium products, including titanium sponge, for consideration in multi lateral trade negotiations through the World Trade Organization (the so called "Doha Round"). As part of the Doha Round, the United States has proposed the staged elimination of all industrial tariffs, including those on titanium. The Japanese government has specifically asked that titanium in all it forms be included in the tariff elimination program. The Company has urged that no change be made to these tariffs, either on wrought or unwrought products. The negotiations are currently scheduled to conclude at the end of 2006 for implementation beginning in 2007. TIMET has successfully resisted, and will continue to resist, efforts to eliminate duties on sponge and unwrought titanium products, although no assurances can be made that the Company will continue to be successful in these activities. Further reductions in, or the complete elimination of, any or all of these tariffs could lead to increased imports of foreign sponge, ingot and mill products into the U.S. and an increase in the amount of such products on the market generally, which could adversely affect pricing for titanium sponge, ingot and mill products and thus the Companys business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Research and development. The Companys research and development activities are directed toward expanding the use of titanium and titanium alloys in all market sectors. Key research activities include the development of new alloys, development of technology required to enhance the performance of TIMETs products in the traditional industrial and aerospace markets and applications development for automotive and other emerging markets. The Company conducts the majority of its research and development activities at its Henderson Technical Laboratory in Henderson, Nevada, with additional activities at its Witton, England facility. The Company incurred research and development costs of $3.2 million in 2005, $2.9 million in 2004 and $2.8 million in 2003. In April 2003, the Company was selected by the United States Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency ("DARPA") to explore low cost titanium extraction processes. Since 2003, the main effort has focused on the FFC Cambridge process. As of December 31, 2005, work to develop and scale up that process at TIMET has been discontinued due to low overall process efficiency. TIMET continues to work in partnership with DARPA and others to meet the goals of the DARPA titanium initiative. The work with DARPA complements TIMETs own programs exploring new technologies and improvements to the existing Vacuum Distilled sponge process. Patents and trademarks. The Company holds U.S. and non U.S. patents applicable to certain of its titanium alloys and manufacturing technology, which expire at various times from 2007 through 2025. The Company continually seeks patent protection with respect to its technical base and has occasionally entered into cross licensing arrangements with third parties. The Company believes the trademarks TIMET(R) and TIMETAL(R), which are protected by registration in the U.S. and other countries, are important to its business. The Company believes that proprietary alloys targeting automotive exhaust, turbocharger, engine valve, and suspension spring applications provide the company competitive advantages in the automotive market. Further, the Company was recently granted patent protection for an improved machinability alloy, TIMETAL 54M, for use in forged and machined components applicable to both aerospace and non aerospace market sectors. Additionally, the Company has been granted certain patents and has certain other patent applications pending relating to various aspects of its manufacturing technology. However, the majority of the Companys titanium alloys and manufacturing technologies do not benefit from patent or other intellectual property protection. Employees. The cyclical nature of the aerospace industry and its impact on the Companys business is the principal reason for significant changes in the Companys employment. The increases during 2004 and 2005 reflect the increase in demand for titanium products during those periods. The Company currently expects employment to increase throughout 2006 as production continues to increase and its sponge plant expansion project in Henderson, Nevada nears completion. The following table shows the number of employees at the end of the past 3 years: Employees at December 31, 2005 2004 2003 U.S. 1,476 1,376 1,266 Europe 893 851 789 2,369 2,227 2,055 The Companys production, maintenance, clerical and technical workers in Toronto, Ohio, and its production and maintenance workers in Henderson, Nevada (approximately 50% of the Companys total U.S. employees) are represented by the United Steelworkers of America under contracts expiring in July 2008 and January 2008, respectively. Employees at the Companys other U.S. facilities are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 64% of the salaried and hourly employees at the Companys European facilities are represented by various European labor unions. The Company recently extended its labor agreement with its U.K. production and maintenance employees through 2008, and the Companys labor agreements with its French and Italian employees are renewed annually. The Company currently considers its employee relations to be satisfactory. However, it is possible that there could be future work stoppages or other labor disruptions that could materially and adversely affect the Companys business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Regulatory and environmental matters. The Companys operations are governed by various Federal, state, local and foreign environmental and worker safety laws and regulations. In the U.S., such laws include the Occupational, Safety and Health Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. The Company uses and manufactures substantial quantities of substances that are considered hazardous, extremely hazardous or toxic under environmental and worker safety and health laws and regulations. The Company has used and manufactured such substances throughout the history of its operations. Although the Company has substantial controls and procedures designed to reduce continuing risk of environmental, health and safety issues, the Company could incur substantial cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party property damage or personal injury claims as a result of violations or liabilities under these laws or non compliance with environmental permits required at our facilities. In addition, government environmental requirements or the enforcement thereof may become more stringent in the future. There can be no assurance that some, or all, of the risks discussed under this heading will not result in liabilities that would be material to the Companys business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. The Company believes that its operations are in compliance in all material respects with applicable requirements of environmental and worker health and safety laws. The Companys policy is to continually strive to improve environmental, health and safety performance. The Company incurred capital expenditures related to health, safety and environmental compliance and improvement of approximately $25.1 million in 2005, $5.1 million in 2004 and $1.9 million in 2003. Such capital expenditures include $24.2 million in 2005 and $3.9 million in 2004 related to the construction of a water conservation facility at the Companys Henderson, Nevada location. The Companys capital budget provides for approximately $4.6 million for environmental, health and safety capital expenditures during 2006. From time to time, the Company may be subject to health, safety or environmental regulatory enforcement under various statutes, resolution of which typically involves the establishment of compliance programs. Occasionally, resolution of these matters may result in the payment of penalties. However, the imposition of more strict standards or requirements under environmental, health or safety laws and regulations could result in expenditures in excess of amounts currently estimated to be required for such matters. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Related parties. At December 31, 2005, Valhi, Inc. ("Valhi") and other entities or persons related to Harold C. Simmons held approximately 52.6% of TIMETs outstanding common stock and 54.1% of the Companys Series A Preferred Stock. See Notes 1 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Available information. The Company maintains an Internet website at www.timet.com. The Companys Annual Reports on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q and Current Reports on Form 8 K, and any amendments thereto, are or will be available free of charge at such website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed or furnished, as applicable, with the SEC. Additionally, the Companys (i) Corporate Governance Guidelines, (ii) Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and (iii) Audit Committee and Management Development and Compensation Committee charters are also available on the Companys website. Such documents will also be provided to shareholders upon request. Such requests should be directed to the attention of TIMETs Investor Relations Department at TIMETs corporate offices located at 5430 LBJ Freeway, Suite 1700, Dallas Texas 75240. The general public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549, and may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. The Company is an electronic filer, and the SEC maintains an Internet website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Listed below are certain risk factors associated with our business. In addition to the potential effect of these risk factors discussed below, any risk factor that could result in reduced earnings, liquidity or operating losses, could in turn adversely affect our ability to meet our liabilities or adversely affect the quoted market prices for our securities. The cyclical nature of the industries in which our customers operate causes such customers demand for our products to be cyclical, creating uncertainty regarding our future profitability. The titanium industry in general, and TIMET specifically, has historically derived a substantial portion of its business from the commercial aerospace sector. Consequently, the cyclical nature of the commercial aerospace sector has been the principal driver of the historical fluctuations in our performance. Over the past 25 years, the titanium industry had cyclical peaks in mill product shipments in 1989, 1997 and 2001 and cyclical lows in 1983, 1991, 1999 and 2002. Prior to 2004, demand for titanium reached its highest level in 1997, when industry mill product shipments reached approximately 60,700 metric tons. However, since that peak, industry mill product shipments have fluctuated significantly, primarily due to a continued change in demand for titanium from the commercial aerospace sector, but also due to geopolitical instability and the economic impact of terrorist threats and attacks. Sales of our products to the commercial aerospace sector accounted for 57% of our total sales revenue in each of the last three years. Events that could adversely affect the commercial aerospace sector, such as future terrorist attacks, world health crises or reduced orders from commercial airlines resulting from continued operating losses at the airlines, could significantly decrease our results of operations, and our business and financial condition could significantly decline. Adverse changes to, or interruptions in, our relationships with our major commercial aerospace customers could reduce our revenues. In 2005, approximately 57% of our revenues were derived from sales to the commercial aerospace sector. Sales under LTAs with certain customers in the commercial aerospace sector account for a significant percentage of our annual sales revenue. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with our major commercial aerospace customers, including Boeing, Rolls Royce, Snecma, UTC and Wyman Gordon, under the LTAs we have with these customers, our sales could decrease substantially. Our failure to develop new markets would result in our continued dependence on the cyclical commercial aerospace sector, and our operating results would, accordingly, remain cyclical. In an effort to reduce dependence on the commercial aerospace market and to increase participation in other markets, we have been devoting resources to developing new markets and applications for our products, principally in automotive, oil and gas and other emerging markets for titanium. Developing these emerging market applications involves substantial risk and uncertainties due to the fact that titanium must compete with less expensive alternative materials in these potential markets or applications. We may not be successful in developing new markets or applications for our products, significant time may be required for such development and uncertainty exists as to the extent to which we will face competition in this regard. Our dependence upon certain critical raw materials that are subject to price and availability fluctuations could lead to increased costs or delays in the manufacture and sale of our products. We rely on a limited number of suppliers around the world, and principally on those located in Australia, for our supply of titanium containing rutile ore, one of the primary raw materials used in the production of titanium sponge. While chlorine, another of the primary raw materials used in the production of titanium sponge, is generally widely available, we currently obtain our chlorine from a single supplier near our sponge plant in Henderson, Nevada. Also, we cannot supply all our needs for all grades of titanium sponge and scrap internally and are therefore dependent on third parties for a substantial portion of our raw material requirements. All of our major competitors utilize sponge and scrap as raw materials in their melt operations. In addition to use by titanium manufacturers, titanium scrap is used in certain steel making operations. Current demand for these steel products, especially from China, have produced a significant increase in demand for titanium scrap at a time when titanium scrap generation rates are at low levels because of the lower commercial aircraft build rates in recent years. Purchase prices and availability of these critical materials are subject to volatility. At any given time, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of these critical materials on a timely basis, on price and other terms acceptable to us, or at all. We have experienced operating and net losses in the past and may not be profitable in the future. We have incurred operating losses during each of 2003, 2002, 2000 and 1999 and incurred net losses in each year from 1999 through 2003. Our ability to achieve profitability in the future is dependent upon a number of factors, including the following: o market demand and prices for titanium products, particularly demand and pricing in the commercial aerospace sector; o our ability to increase prices for titanium products to a level that exceeds any increases in materials or production costs; o the avoidance of any material adverse developments either in the capacity utilization for the production of titanium sponge or the availability of titanium scrap; and o favorable general economic conditions throughout the world. Reductions in, or the complete elimination of, any or all tariffs on imported titanium products into the United States could lead to increased imports of foreign sponge, ingot and mill products into the U.S. and an increase in the amount of such products on the market generally, which could decrease pricing for our products. In the U.S. titanium market, the increasing presence of non U.S. participants has become a significant competitive factor. Until 1993, imports of foreign titanium products into the U.S. had not been significant. This was primarily attributable to relative currency exchange rates and, with respect to Japan, Russia, Kazakhstan and Ukraine, import duties (including antidumping duties). However, since 1993, imports of titanium sponge, ingot and mill products, principally from Russia and Kazakhstan, have increased and have had a significant competitive impact on the U.S. titanium industry. Generally, imports of titanium products into the U.S. are subject to a 15% "normal trade relations" tariff. For tariff purposes, titanium products are broadly classified as either wrought (billet, bar, sheet, strip, plate and tubing) or unwrought (sponge, ingot and slab). From time to time, the U.S. government has granted preferential trade status to certain titanium products imported from particular countries (notably wrought titanium products from Russia, which carried no U.S. import duties from approximately 1993 until 2004). It is possible that such preferential status could be granted again in the future, and we may not be successful in resisting efforts to eliminate duties or tariffs on titanium products. See discussion of Doha Round in "Business Competition." We may be unable to reach or maintain satisfactory collective bargaining agreements with unions representing a significant portion of our employees. Our production, maintenance, clerical and technical workers in Toronto, Ohio, and our production and maintenance workers in Henderson, Nevada, are represented by the United Steelworkers of America under contracts expiring in July 2008 and January 2008, for the respective locations. Approximately 64% of the salaried and hourly employees at our European facilities are represented by various European labor unions. Our labor agreement with our U.K. employees expires in 2008, and the agreements with our French and Italian employees are renewed annually. A labor dispute or work stoppage could materially decrease our operating results. We may not succeed in concluding collective bargaining agreements with the unions to replace expiring agreements or to maintain satisfactory relations under existing collective bargaining agreements. If our employees were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs. Because we are subject to environmental and worker safety laws and regulations, we may be required to remediate the environmental effects of our operations or take steps to modify our operations to comply with these laws and regulations, which could reduce our profitability. Various federal, state, local and foreign environmental and worker safety laws and regulations govern our operations. Throughout the history of our operations, we have used and manufactured, and currently use and manufacture, substantial quantities of substances that are considered hazardous, extremely hazardous or toxic under environmental and worker safety and health laws and regulations. Although we have substantial controls and procedures designed to reduce continuing risk of environmental, health and safety issues, we could incur substantial cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party property damage or personal injury claims as a result of violations or liabilities under these laws or non compliance with environmental permits required at our facilities. In addition, government environmental requirements or the enforcement thereof may become more stringent in the future. Some or all of these risks may result in liabilities that could reduce our profitability. The titanium metals industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully. The global markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Competition is based on a number of factors, such as price, product quality and service. Some of our competitors may be able to drive down prices for our products because their costs are lower than our costs. In addition, some of our competitors financial, technological and other resources may be greater than our resources, and such competitors may be better able to withstand changes in market conditions. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Further, consolidation of our competitors or customers in any of the industries in which we compete may result in reduced demand for our products. In addition, producers of metal products, such as steel and aluminum, maintain forging, rolling and finishing facilities. Such facilities could be used or modified without substantial expenditures to process titanium mill products, which could lead to increased competition and decreased pricing for our titanium products. In addition, many factors, including the historical presence of excess capacity in the titanium industry, work to intensify the price competition for available business at low points in the business cycle. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 2: PROPERTIES Set forth below is a listing of the Companys major production facilities. In addition to its U.S. sponge capacity discussed below, the Companys worldwide melting capacity presently aggregates approximately 44,650 metric tons (estimated 22% of world capacity), and its mill product capacity aggregates approximately 22,600 metric tons (estimated 18% of world capacity). Of the Companys worldwide melting capacity, 35% is represented by electron beam cold hearth melting ("EB") furnaces, 63% by vacuum arc remelting ("VAR") furnaces and 2% by a vacuum induction melting ("VIM") furnace. Annual Practical Capacities (3) Melted Mill Manufacturing Location Products Manufactured Products Products (metric tons) Henderson, Nevada (1) Sponge, Ingot 12,250 Morgantown, Pennsylvania (1) Slab, Ingot, Raw materials Processing 20,000 Toronto, Ohio (1) Billet, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Strip 11,000 Vallejo, California (2) Ingot (including non titanium superalloys) 1,600 Ugine, France (2) (4) Ingot, Billet 2,100 1,500 Waunarlwydd (Swansea), Wales(1) Bar, Plate, Sheet 3,100 Witton, England (2) Ingot, Billet, Bar 8,700 7,000 (1) Owned facility. (2) Leased facility. (3) Practical capacities are variable based on product mix and are not additive. (4) Practical capacities are based on the approximate maximum equivalent product that CEZUS is contractually obligated to provide. The Company has operated its major production facilities at varying levels of practical capacity during the past three years. Overall in 2005, the plants operated at approximately 80% of practical capacity, as compared to 73% in 2004 and 56% in 2003. In 2006, the Companys plants are expected to operate at approximately 88% of practical capacity. However, practical capacity and utilization measures can vary significantly based upon the mix of products produced. United States production. The Companys VDP sponge facility is expected to operate at its full annual practical capacity of 8,600 metric tons during 2006, which is comparable to 2005. VDP sponge is used principally as a raw material for the Companys melting facilities in the U.S. and Europe. In May 2005, the Company announced its plans to expand its VDP sponge facility in Henderson, Nevada. The Company currently expects to complete this expansion by the first quarter of 2007, which will provide the capacity to produce an additional 4,000 metric tons of sponge annually, an increase of approximately 47% over current Henderson sponge production capacity levels. The Company currently estimates the capital cost for the project will approximate $38 million. The raw materials processing facility in Morgantown, Pennsylvania primarily processes scrap used as melting feedstock, either in combination with sponge or separately. The Companys U.S. melting facilities in Henderson, Nevada, Morgantown, Pennsylvania and Vallejo, California produce ingot and slab, which are either used as feedstock for the Companys mill products operations or sold to third parties. These melting facilities are expected to operate at approximately 82%, 92% and 55%, respectively, of annual practical capacity in 2006, as compared to 70%, 91% and 59%, respectively, in 2005. Titanium mill products are produced by TIMET in the U.S. at its forging and rolling facility in Toronto, Ohio, which receives ingot or slab principally from the Companys U.S. melting facilities. The Companys U.S. forging and rolling facility is expected to operate at approximately 82% of annual practical capacity in 2006, up from 68% in 2005. Capacity utilization across the Companys individual mill product lines varies. European production. The Company conducts its operations in Europe primarily through its wholly owned subsidiaries TIMET UK, Ltd. ("TIMET UK") and Loterios S.p.A. ("Loterios") and its 70% owned subsidiary TIMET Savoie. TIMET UKs Witton, England laboratory and manufacturing facilities are leased pursuant to long term operating leases expiring in 2014 and 2024, respectively. TIMET Savoie has the right to utilize portions of the Ugine, France plant of Compagnie Europeenne du Zirconium CEZUS, S.A. ("CEZUS"), the 30% minority partner in TIMET Savoie, pursuant to an agreement scheduled to expire in 2006. TIMET is currently finalizing negotiations with CEZUS to extend its agreement through 2011 and expand its available capacity in 2006 and beyond. TIMET UKs melting facility in Witton, England produces VAR ingot used primarily as feedstock for its Witton forging operations. The forging operations process the ingot into billet product for sale to third parties or into an intermediate product for further processing into bar or plate at its facility in Waunarlwydd, Wales. TIMET UKs melting and mill products production in 2006 is expected to operate at approximately 91% and 85%, respectively, of annual practical capacity, compared to 73% and 69%, respectively, in 2005. The capacity of TIMET Savoie in Ugine, France is to a certain extent dependent upon the level of activity in CEZUS zirconium business, which may from time to time provide TIMET Savoie with capacity in excess of that which CEZUS is contractually required to provide. During 2005, TIMET Savoie utilized 119% of the maximum annual capacity CEZUS was contractually required to provide in 2005, and the Company expects to utilize approximately 102% of the maximum annual capacity CEZUS will be expected to provide in 2006 based on the agreement currently being finalized. ITEM 3: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS From time to time, the Company is involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of its operations in the normal course of business. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 4: SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS No matters were submitted to a vote of TIMET security holders during the quarter ended December 31, 2005. However, in February 2006, the Companys Board of Directors and the Companys stockholders holding more than a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock approved an amendment to the Companys Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of the Companys capital stock from 100,000,000 shares (90,000,000 shares of common stock, $.01 par value, and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, $.01 par value) to 210,000,000 shares (200,000,000 shares of common stock, $.01 par value, and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, $.01 par value). PART II ITEM 5: MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES TIMETs common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: "TIE"). The high and low sales prices for the Companys common stock during 2005 and 2004 are set forth below. All prices (as well as all share numbers referenced herein) have been adjusted to reflect (i) the two for one stock split which became effective after the close of trading on February 16, 2006, (ii) the two for one stock split which became effective after the close of trading on September 6, 2005 and (iii) the five for one stock split which became effective after the close of trading on August 27, 2004. Year ended December 31, 2005: High Low First quarter $ 10.13 $ 5.83 Second quarter $ 14.38 $ 7.76 Third quarter $ 21.20 $ 12.32 Fourth quarter $ 39.72 $ 17.13 Year ended December 31, 2004: First quarter $ 5.18 $ 2.12 Second quarter $ 5.40 $ 3.59 Third quarter $ 6.23 $ 4.60 Fourth quarter $ 6.65 $ 4.63 On March 10, 2006, the closing price of TIMET common stock was $41.74 per share. As of March 10, 2006, there were 204 shareholders of record of TIMET common stock, which the Company estimates represent approximately 31,365 actual shareholders. In October 2002, the Company exercised its right to defer future interest payments on TIMETs 6.625% Convertible Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2026 ("Subordinated Debentures") held by the TIMET Capital Trust I (the "Capital Trust"), effective for the December 1, 2002 scheduled interest payment. Interest continued to accrue at the 6.625% coupon rate on the principal and unpaid interest until the Companys Board of Directors approved resumption of scheduled quarterly interest payments on the Subordinated Debentures beginning with the payment on June 1, 2004. The Companys Board also approved payment of all previously deferred interest on the Subordinated Debentures. On April 15, 2004, the Company paid the deferred interest in the amount of $21.7 million, $21.0 million of which related to the 6.625% mandatorily redeemable convertible preferred securities, beneficial unsecured convertible securities ("BUCS") issued by the Capital Trust. In August 2004, the Company completed an exchange offer pursuant to which the Company had offered to exchange all of the 4,024,820 outstanding BUCS issued by the Capital Trust for shares of the Companys 6.75% Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (the "Series A Preferred Stock") at the exchange rate of one share of Series A Preferred Stock for each BUCS. Based upon the 3,909,103 BUCS tendered and accepted for exchange as of the close of the offer on August 31, 2004, the Company issued 3,909,103 shares of Series A Preferred Stock in exchange for such BUCS. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to receive cumulative cash dividends at the rate of 6.75% of the $50 per share liquidation preference per annum per share (equivalent to $3.375 per annum per share), when, as and if declared by the Companys board of directors. During the third quarter of 2004, the Company recognized a $15.5 million non cash, non operating gain related to the BUCS exchange. During the third and fourth quarters of 2005, an aggregate of 926,490 shares of Series A Preferred Stock were converted into 6,176,600 shares of TIMET common stock. As of December 31, 2005, there were 2,982,613 shares of the Series A Preferred Stock outstanding. Subsequent to December 31, 2005 and through March 10, 2006, an additional 346,016 shares of Series A Preferred Stock were converted into 2,306,765 shares of TIMET common stock. See Notes 12 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Companys new U.S. credit agreement contains certain financial covenants that may restrict the Companys ability to make dividend payments on both the Companys common stock and Series A Preferred Stock or make distributions on the BUCS. Such covenants do not currently restrict the Companys ability to pay dividends or make distributions. See Item 7 MD&A and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. On August 12, 2005, the Company retired all 180,000 shares of its treasury stock. The retirement of such treasury stock, which had a cost basis of $1.2 million, resulted in a $1,800 reduction of common stock, a $990,000 reduction of additional paid in capital and a $216,000 decrease in accumulated earnings. ITEM 6: SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The selected financial data set forth below should be read in conjunction with the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7 MD&A. Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 (restated) (restated) (restated) (restated) ($ in millions, except per share and product data) STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA: Net sales $ 749.8 $ 501.8 $ 385.3 $ 366.5 $ 486.9 Gross margin (1) $ 199.4 $ 63.7 $ 5.6 $ 6.2 $ 34.9 Operating income (loss) (1)(2) $ 171.1 $ 43.0 $ (6.0) $ (11.5) $ 59.5 Interest expense $ 4.0 $ 12.5 $ 16.4 $ 17.1 $ 18.3 Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders (1)(2) $ 143.7 $ 43.3 $ (24.4) $ (102.2) $ (46.7) Earnings (loss) per share: Basic (1)(2)(3) $ 2.20 $ 0.68 $ (0.39) $ (1.62) $ (0.74) Diluted (1)(2)(3) $ 1.72 $ 0.66 $ (0.39) $ (1.62) $ (0.74) BALANCE SHEET DATA: Cash and cash equivalents (4) $ 17.8 $ 7.9 $ 37.3 $ 6.4 $ 24.5 Total assets (2) $ 907.3 $ 700.6 $ 594.8 $ 605.0 $ 726.7 Bank indebtedness (5) $ 51.4 $ 43.2 $ $ 19.4 $ 12.4 Capital lease obligations $ 0.2 $ 0.2 $ 10.3 $ 10.2 $ 8.9 Debt payable to Capital Trust $ 5.9 $ 12.0 $ 207.5 $ 207.5 $ 207.5 Stockholders equity $ 562.2 $ 406.4 $ 177.7 $ 189.7 $ 319.2 OTHER OPERATING DATA: Cash flows provided (used) by: Operating activities $ 72.9 $ (22.4) $ 65.8 $ (13.6) $ 62.6 Investing activities (61.5) (44.5) (14.5) (7.5) (16.1) Financing activities 38.7 (22.1) 3.6 (31.4) Net cash provided (used) $ 11.4 $ (28.2) $ 29.2 $ (17.5) $ 15.1 Melted product shipments (6) 5,655 5,360 4,725 2,400 4,415 Average melted product prices (6) $ 19.85 $ 13.45 $ 12.15 $ 14.50 $ 14.50 Mill product shipments (6) 12,660 11,365 8,875 8,860 12,180 Average mill product prices (6) $ 41.75 $ 32.05 $ 31.50 $ 31.40 $ 29.80 Active employees at December 31 2,369 2,227 2,055 1,956 2,410 Order backlog at December 31(7) $ 870.0 $ 450.0 $ 205.0 $ 185.0 $ 240.0 Capital expenditures $ 61.1 $ 23.6 $ 12.5 $ 7.8 $ 16.1 (1) Effective January 1, 2005, the Company changed its method for inventory determination from the LIFO cost method to the specific identification cost method for the approximate 40% of the Companys consolidated inventories previously accounted for under the LIFO cost method. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"), net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders, and the related per share amounts, for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001, and total assets and stockholders equity as of December 31, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001, have been retroactively restated for this change in accounting principle. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders, and the related per share amounts, as presented above, is higher than the previously reported amount by $9.3 million ($0.15 per basic and diluted share) in 2002 and is lower than the previously reported amount by $5.0 million ($0.08 per basic and diluted share) in 2001. Total assets and total stockholders equity, as presented above, are higher than the previously reported amounts by $19.0 million at December 31, 2003, $30.4 million at December 31, 2002 and $21.1 million at December 31, 2001. (2) See the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7 MD&A for items that materially affect the 2005, 2004 and 2003 periods. In 2002, the Company recorded a $27.5 million pre tax impairment charge to other non operating expense related to the Companys investment in Special Metals Corporation preferred securities. In 2001, the Company recorded (i) net other operating income of $73 million related to the settlement of litigation between TIMET and Boeing, (ii) a $10.8 million pre tax equipment impairment charge to cost of sales, (iii) a $3.3 million charge to cost of sales for costs related to a tungsten inclusion matter and (iv) a $61.5 million pre tax impairment charge to other non operating expense related to the Companys investment in Special Metals Corporation preferred securities. (3) Amounts have been adjusted to reflect (i) the Companys two for one stock split which became effective after the close of trading on February 16, 2006, (ii) the Companys two for one stock split which became effective after the close of trading on September 6, 2005, (iii) the Companys five for one stock split which became effective after the close of trading on August 27, 2004 and (iv) the Companys one for ten reverse stock split which became effective after the close of trading on February 14, 2003. (4) Includes restricted cash and cash equivalents of $0.1 million in 2005, $0.7 million in 2004, $2.2 million in 2003 and $0.1 million in each of 2002 and 2001. (5) Bank indebtedness represents notes payable and current and noncurrent debt. (6) Shipments in metric tons. Average selling prices stated per kilogram. (7) Order backlog is defined as unfilled purchase orders (including those under consignment arrangements), which are generally subject to deferral or cancellation by the customer under certain conditions. ITEM 7: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview. Aggregate shipment volumes for titanium mill products in 2005 was derived from the following sectors: TIMET Titanium Industry (1) Mill product Mill product shipments % of total shipments % of total (Metric tons) (Metric tons) Commercial aerospace 7,492 59% 24,000 35% Military 1,981 16% 6,200 9% Industrial 2,677 21% 35,600 52% Emerging markets 510 4% 2,700 4% 12,660 100% 68,500 100% (1) Estimates based on the Companys industry experience and information obtained from publicly available external resources (e.g., United States Geological Survey, International Titanium Association and Japan Titanium Society). The titanium industry derives a substantial portion of its demand from the highly cyclical commercial aerospace sector. As shown in the table, the Companys business is more dependent on commercial aerospace demand than is the overall titanium industry, and the Companys sales growth during 2005 has benefited from growth in this sector. The Companys 2005 revenue from sales of melted and mill products to the commercial aerospace sector increased by 51% compared to 2004. Effective July 1, 2005, the Company entered into a new LTA with Boeing for the purchase and sale of titanium products. The new LTA expires on December 31, 2010 and provides for, among other things, (i) mutual annual purchase and supply commitments by both parties, (ii) continuation of the existing buffer inventory program currently in place for Boeing and (iii) certain improved product pricing, including certain adjustments for raw material cost fluctuations. Beginning in 2006, the new LTA also replaces the take or pay provisions of the previous LTA with an annual makeup payment early in the following year in the event Boeing purchases less than its annual volume commitment in any year. Effective January 1, 2005, the Company changed its method for inventory determination from the last in, first out ("LIFO") cost method to the specific identification cost method for the approximate 40% of the Companys consolidated inventories previously accounted for under the LIFO cost method. In accordance with GAAP, the Companys consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2004, and for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, have been retroactively restated for this change in accounting principle. See Notes 2 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In November 2004, pursuant to an agreement with Basic Management, Inc. and certain of its affiliates ("BMI"), the Company sold certain property located adjacent to its Henderson, Nevada plant site to BMI, a 32% owned indirect subsidiary of Valhi, and recorded a $12.0 million deferred gain related to the cash proceeds received in November 2004. During the second quarter of 2005, the Company ceased using the property and, accordingly, recognized a $13.9 million non operating gain related to the sale of such property, which is comprised of (i) the previously reported $12.0 million cash proceeds received in November 2004, (ii) the reversal of $0.6 million previously accrued by the Company for potential environmental issues related to the property and (iii) an additional $1.2 million cash payment received from BMI in June 2005. During 2005, the Company reversed $36.9 million of the valuation allowance attributable to its U.S. deferred income tax asset and $13.2 million of the valuation allowance attributable to its U.K. deferred income tax asset. See "Results of Operations Income taxes" and Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Companys income taxes. In August 2004, the Company completed an exchange offer, pursuant to which the Company had offered to exchange all of the 4,024,820 outstanding BUCS issued by the Capital Trust for shares of the Companys Series A Preferred Stock at the exchange rate of one share of Series A Preferred Stock for each BUCS. Based upon the 3,909,103 BUCS tendered and accepted for exchange as of the close of the offer on August 31, 2004, the Company issued 3,909,103 shares of Series A Preferred Stock in exchange for such BUCS. During the third quarter of 2004, the Company recognized a $15.5 million non cash, non operating gain related to the BUCS exchange. During the third and fourth quarters of 2005, an aggregate of 926,490 shares of Series A Preferred Stock were converted into 6,176,600 shares of TIMET common stock. As of December 31, 2005, there were 2,982,613 shares outstanding of the Series A Preferred Stock. Subsequent to December 31, 2005 and through March 10, 2006, an additional 346,016 shares of Series A Preferred Stock were converted into 2,306,765 shares of TIMET common stock. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Summarized financial information. The following table summarizes certain information regarding the Companys results of operations for the past three years. Average selling prices, as reported by the Company, are a reflection not just of actual selling prices received by the Company, but also include other related factors such as currency exchange rates and customer and product mix in a given period. Consequently, changes in average selling prices from period to period will be impacted by changes occurring not just in actual prices, but by these other factors as well. The percentage change information presented below represents changes from the respective prior year. See "Results of Operations Outlook" for further discussion of the Companys business expectations for 2006. Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 ($ in thousands, except product shipment data) Net sales: Melted products $ 112,252 $ 72,092 $ 57,409 Mill products 528,555 364,248 279,563 Other products 108,970 65,488 55,132 Other (1) (6,800) Net sales $ 749,777 $ 501,828 $ 385,304 Gross margin 199,362 63,677 5,644 Gross margin percent of net sales 27% 13% 1% Melted products shipments: Volume (metric tons) 5,655 5,360 4,725 Average selling prices ($ per kilogram) $ 19.85 $ 13.45 $ 12.15 Mill products shipments: Volume (metric tons) 12,660 11,365 8,875 Average selling prices ($ per kilogram) $ 41.75 $ 32.05 $ 31.50 Percentage change in: Sales volume: Melted products +6 +13 +97 Mill products +11 +28 Average selling prices: Melted products +48 +11 16 Mill products +30 +2 Selling prices excludes changes in product mix: Melted products +35 +7 12 Mill products in U.S. dollars +27 +6 3 Mill products in billing currencies (2) +27 +2 7 (1) Represents the effect of a $6.8 million reduction to sales related to the termination of a purchase and sale agreement with Wyman Gordon. See "Results of Operations 2004 operations." (2) Excludes the effect of changes in foreign currencies. Based upon the terms of the Companys previous LTA with Boeing, the Company received an annual $28.5 million (less $3.80 per pound of titanium product sold to Boeing subcontractors in the preceding year) customer advance from Boeing in January of each year related to Boeings purchases from TIMET for that year. Effective July 1, 2005, the Company entered into a new LTA with Boeing pursuant to which, beginning in 2006, these take or pay provisions were replaced with an annual makeup payment early in the following year in the event Boeing purchases less than its annual commitment in any year. The previous LTA was structured as a take or pay agreement such that Boeing forfeited $3.80 per pound of its advance payment in the event that its orders for delivery were less than 7.5 million pounds in any given calendar year. The Company recognized income to the extent Boeings year to date orders for delivery plus TIMETs maximum quarterly volume obligations for the remainder of the year totaled less than 7.5 million pounds. This income was recognized as other operating income and was not included in sales revenue, sales volume or gross margin. Based on actual purchases of approximately 3.0 million pounds during 2005, the Company recognized $17.1 million of take or pay income for the year ended December 31, 2005. The Company recognized $22.1 million and $23.1 million of such income during 2004 and 2003, respectively. Had the Company not benefited from such provisions, the Companys results would have been as follows: Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (In thousands) Operating income (loss), as reported $ 171,075 $ 43,036 $ (5,954) Less take or pay income 17,134 22,093 23,083 Operating income (loss), excluding take or pay $ 153,941 $ 20,943 $ (29,037) 2005 operations. Melted product sales increased 56% and mill product sales increased 45% during 2005 as compared to 2004, principally as a result of higher average selling prices and increased sales volume due to greater market demand across all markets, especially commercial aerospace. Large commercial aircraft deliveries increased from 600 in 2004 to 650 in 2005, and 2006 deliveries are expected to be 840 aircraft. As previously discussed, a substantial portion of the Companys business is tied to the commercial aerospace industry, and sales of titanium generally precede aircraft deliveries by about one year. Therefore, the Companys 2005 net sales have significantly benefited from the increase in production of large commercial aircraft scheduled for delivery in 2006. Average selling prices use actual customer and product mix and foreign currency exchange rates prevailing during the respective periods. The Companys melted products are generally sold only in U.S. dollars. Melted product average selling prices during 2005, as compared to 2004, were positively affected by current market conditions and changes in customer and product mix. Mill product average selling prices during 2005, as compared to 2004, were positively affected by changes in customer and product mix and by the weakening of the U.S. dollar compared to both the British pound sterling and the euro. Gross margin (net sales less cost of sales) increased during 2005 as compared to 2004 primarily as a result of the improved average selling prices for both melted and mill products as compared to 2004, partially offset by increased raw material costs and higher energy costs. Gross margin during 2005 includes an additional $21.1 million from the sale of titanium scrap (which the Company cannot economically recycle) and other non mill products as compared to 2004. Additionally, gross margin was positively impacted by improved plant operating rates during 2005 (80%) as compared to 2004 (73%). Gross margin during 2004 was favorably impacted by a $1.6 million reduction in cost of sales related to the modification of the Companys vacation policy. On January 1, 2004, the Company modified its vacation policy for its U.S. salaried employees, whereby such employees no longer accrue their entire years vacation entitlement on January 1, but rather accrue the current years vacation entitlement over the course of the year. Gross margin during 2005 was adversely impacted by $6.0 million of additional costs as compared to 2004 related to the accrual of certain performance based employee incentive compensation payments and a $1.2 million noncash impairment charge related to the Companys abandonment of certain manufacturing equipment. Selling, general, administrative and development expenses increased 19%, from $44.9 million during 2004 to $53.6 million during 2005, principally as a result of (i) $3.7 million of increased personnel costs (including $1.4 million of additional employee incentive compensation costs) partially as a result of headcount increases during 2005, (ii) $1.2 million of additional auditing and consulting costs partially related to the Companys compliance with the Sarbanes Oxley Acts internal control requirements and (iii) increases during 2005 for legal, travel, insurance and other such costs. Equity in earnings of joint ventures increased 296%, from $1.3 million during 2004 to $5.1 million during 2005, due to an increase in the operating results of VALTIMET, the Companys minority owned welded tube joint venture. During 2005, VALTIMET benefited from both stronger demand and increased pricing in the industrial tubing market. Net other operating income (expense) decreased 12% from income of $23.0 million during 2004 to income of $20.3 million during 2005, principally due to a decrease in the amount of previously discussed take or pay income recognized by the Company during 2005. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2004 operations. Melted product sales increased 26% and mill product sales increased 30% during 2004 as compared to 2003, principally as a result of increased sales volume due to greater market demand and or share gains across all markets. More specifically, large commercial aircraft deliveries increased from 575 in 2003 to 602 in 2004 and the Companys 2004 net sales significantly benefited from the increase in production of large commercial aircraft scheduled for delivery in 2005. Melted product average selling prices during 2004, as compared to 2003, were positively affected by current market conditions and changes in customer and product mix. Mill product average selling prices during 2004, as compared to 2003, were positively affected by the weakening of the U.S. dollar compared to both the British pound sterling and the euro and negatively affected by changes in customer and product mix. Gross margin increased during 2004 as compared to 2003 primarily as a result of improved plant operating rates (from 56% during 2003 to 73% during 2004), partially offset by increased raw material costs and higher energy costs. The Companys gross margin during 2004 was also favorably impacted by the previously discussed modification of the Companys vacation policy and adversely impacted by an additional $10.5 million charge to cost of sales related to the accrual of certain employee incentive compensation payments, as compared to 2003. Comparatively, gross margin during 2003 was impacted by (i) a $1.7 million reduction in cost of sales related to a revision of the Companys estimate of probable loss associated with a previously reported tungsten inclusion matter and (ii) a $6.8 million reduction in sales related to the previously discussed termination of a purchase and sale agreement with Wyman Gordon. Selling, general, administrative and development expenses increased 23%, from $36.4 million during 2003 to $44.9 million during 2004, principally as a result of (i) a $2.8 million accrual related to certain employee incentive compensation payments expected to be made in 2005, (ii) $2.0 million of additional auditing and consulting costs relative to the Companys compliance with the Sarbanes Oxley Acts internal control requirements and (iii) $1.0 million of increased costs related to the Companys intercompany services agreement with Contran Corporation ("Contran"). Equity in earnings of joint ventures increased 183%, from $0.5 million during 2003 to $1.3 million during 2004, due to an increase in the operating results of VALTIMET. Net other operating income (expense) decreased 6% from income of $24.4 million during 2003 to income of $23.0 million during 2004, principally due to a decrease in the amount of previously discussed take or pay income recognized by the Company during 2004. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Non operating income (expense). Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (In thousands) Interest expense on bank debt $ (3,302) $ (2,649) $ (2,017) Interest expense on debt payable to the Capital Trust (661) (9,802) (14,402) $ (3,963) $ (12,451) $ (16,419) Dividends and interest income $ 2,025 $ 687 $ 383 Equity in earnings of common securities of the Capital Trust 279 424 432 Gain on BUCS exchange, net 15,465 Gain on sale of property 13,881 Foreign exchange gain (loss), net 2,288 (477) (189) Other, net (245) 101 (920) $ 18,228 $ 16,200 $ (294) Interest expense on bank debt in 2005 increased 25% compared to 2004, primarily due to higher average outstanding borrowings during 2005 compared to 2004, which the Company used primarily to support its accumulation of inventory to meet expected customer demand during 2006 as well as for the construction of the water conservation facility at the Companys Henderson, Nevada location. Interest expense on bank debt in 2004 increased 31% compared to 2003, primarily due to higher average outstanding borrowings during 2004 compared to 2003, which the Company used primarily to support higher inventory levels. The Company currently expects interest expense on bank debt in 2006 will approximate 2005 levels. Prior to 2004, annual interest expense on the Companys debt payable to the Capital Trust approximated $13.7 million, exclusive of any accrued interest on deferred interest payments. On September 1, 2004, the Company exchanged 97.1% of its outstanding BUCS for its Series A Preferred Stock, resulting in a $15.5 million non cash, non operating gain. On September 1, 2005, the Company and the Capital Trust agreed to the cancellation of 120,907 of the Capital Trusts common securities and a corresponding cancellation of $6.0 million of the Companys Subordinated Debentures (see "Liquidity and Capital Resources Other" and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Interest expense related to the remaining debt payable to the Capital Trust ($5.9 million at December 31, 2005) continues to accrue at 6.625% per year. During 2002, the Company exercised its right to defer interest payments on the Subordinated Debentures, effective for the December 1, 2002 scheduled interest payment. Interest continued to accrue at the 6.625% coupon rate on the principal and unpaid interest until the Companys Board of Directors approved resumption of scheduled quarterly interest payments on the Subordinated Debentures beginning with the payment on June 1, 2004. The Companys Board also approved payment of all previously deferred interest on the Subordinated Debentures. On April 15, 2004, the Company paid the deferred interest in the amount of $21.7 million, $21.0 million of which related to the BUCS. Dividends and interest income during 2005 and 2004 consisted of dividends received on the Companys investments in marketable securities and interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents. Dividends and interest income during 2003 consisted solely of interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents. During the second quarter of 2005, the Company recognized a $13.9 million non operating gain related to the sale of property. See further discussion in "Results of Operations Overview." Income taxes. The Company operates in several tax jurisdictions and is subject to varying income tax rates. As a result, the geographic mix of pretax income or loss can impact the Companys overall effective tax rate. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Companys income tax rate varied from the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to changes in the deferred income tax valuation allowance related to the Companys tax attributes with respect to the "more likely than not" recognition criteria during those periods. The Company periodically reviews its deferred income tax assets to determine if future realization is more likely than not. During the first quarter of 2005, based on the Companys recent history of U.S. income, its near term outlook and the effect of its change in method of inventory determination from the LIFO cost method to the specific identification cost method for U.S. federal income tax purposes (see Note 2), the Company changed its estimate of its ability to utilize the tax benefits of its U.S. net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards, alternative minimum tax ("AMT") credit carryforwards and other net deductible temporary differences (other than the majority of the Companys capital loss carryforwards). Consequently, the Company determined that its net deferred income tax asset related to such U.S. tax attributes and other net deductible temporary differences now meet the "more likely than not" recognition criteria. Accordingly, the Company reversed $36.9 million of the valuation allowance attributable to such U.S. deferred income tax asset during 2005 ($8.6 million in the fourth quarter). During the first quarter of 2005, based on the Companys recent history of U.K. income, its near term outlook and its historic U.K. profitability, the Company also changed its estimate of its ability to utilize its net deductible temporary differences and other tax attributes related to the U.K., primarily comprised of (i) the future benefits associated with the reversal of its U.K. minimum pension liability deferred income tax asset and (ii) the benefits of its U.K. NOL carryforward. Consequently, the Company determined that its net deferred income tax asset in the U.K. now meets the "more likely than not" recognition criteria. Accordingly, the Company reversed $13.2 million of the valuation allowance attributable to such deferred income tax asset during 2005 ($0.1 million in the fourth quarter). During 2004, due to a change in estimate of the Companys ability to utilize the benefits of its NOL carryforwards in Germany, the Company determined that its deferred income tax asset in Germany met the "more likely than not" recognition criteria. Accordingly, the Company reversed the $0.7 million valuation allowance attributable to such deferred income tax asset. In addition, the Companys deferred income tax asset valuation allowance related to income from continuing operations decreased by $16.4 million during 2004, primarily due to the utilization of the U.S. and U.K. NOL carryforwards, the benefit of which had previously not met the "more likely than not" recognition criteria. During the second quarter of 2005 and the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company recognized a deferred income tax benefit related to a $0.5 million and $4.2 million, respectively, decrease in the Companys U.S. deferred income tax asset valuation allowance attributable to the Companys recognition, for U.S. income tax purposes only, of a capital gain on the fourth quarter sale of certain property located at the Companys Henderson, Nevada facility (see Note 6). The Company recognized a corresponding deferred income tax expense in 2005, when the gain was recognized under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The Company utilized a portion of its U.S. capital loss carryforward to offset the income taxes generated from the sale of such property. In October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 was enacted into law. The new law provides for a special 85% deduction for certain dividends received from controlled foreign corporations in 2005. In the second quarter of 2005, the Company completed its evaluation of this new provision and determined that it would benefit from the special dividend received deduction, but the Company did not distribute dividends under the Act until the third quarter of 2005. In the third quarter of 2005, the Company executed a reinvestment plan and distributed $19 million of earnings from its European subsidiaries, which qualified for the special dividend received deduction and, in accordance with the requirements of FASB Staff Position No. 109 2, recognized the $1.0 million income tax related to such repatriation. Additionally, in the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company determined that an additional $10 million of repatriations would qualify for the special dividend received deduction, and the Company recognized an additional $0.5 million income tax related to the fourth quarter repatriation. The Company has not provided for U.S. deferred income taxes or foreign withholding taxes on basis differences in its non U.S. consolidated subsidiaries that result primarily from undistributed earnings the Company intends to reinvest indefinitely. The new law also provides for a special deduction from U.S. taxable income equal to a specified percentage of a U.S. companys qualified income from domestic manufacturing activities (as defined). The Company believes that the majority of its operations meet the definition of qualified domestic manufacturing activities. However, the Company did not derive any benefit from the special manufacturing deduction in 2005, because the Companys existing U.S. NOL carryforwards fully offset its 2005 U.S. taxable income. In June 2005, the State of Ohio enacted a new tax law, which phases out Ohios existing income tax system over the next five years and replaces it with a tax based on gross receipts. In the second quarter of 2005, as a result of this phase out, the Company reduced its deferred income tax asset related primarily to its Ohio NOL carryforwards by $0.6 million. In the fourth quarter of 2005, due primarily to updated income forecasts and revised timing information on the recognition of certain temporary differences, the Company increased its deferred income tax asset related primarily to its Ohio NOL carryforwards by $0.3 million. The net impact of these adjustments for 2005 was a decrease of $0.3 million. The provision for income taxes in 2005 includes $4.4 million of deferred income taxes resulting from the elimination of the Companys minimum pension liability equity adjustment component of accumulated other comprehensive income related to the Companys U.S. defined benefit pension plan. In accordance with GAAP, the Company did not recognize a deferred income tax benefit related to a portion of the minimum pension equity adjustment previously recognized, as the Company had also recognized a deferred income tax asset valuation allowance related to its U.S. net operating loss carryforward and other U.S. net deductible temporary differences during a portion of the periods in which the minimum pension equity adjustment had previously been recognized. A portion of such valuation allowance recognized ($4.4 million) was recognized through the pension liability component of other comprehensive income. As discussed, during 2005 the Company concluded recognition of such deferred income tax asset valuation allowance was no longer required, and the reversal of all of such valuation allowance was recognized through the provision for income taxes included in the determination of net income, including the $4.4 million portion of the valuation allowance which was previously recognized through other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2005, the Company was no longer required to recognize a minimum pension liability related to its U.S. plan, and the Company reversed the minimum pension liability previously recognized in other comprehensive income. After the reversal of such minimum pension liability, which was recognized on a net of tax basis, the $4.4 million amount remained in accumulated other comprehensive income related to the U.S. minimum pension liability, which is required to be recognized in the provision for income taxes during the period in which the minimum pension liability is no longer required to be recognized. See also Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Dividends on Series A Preferred Stock. Shares of the Companys Series A Preferred Stock are convertible, at any time, at the option of the holder thereof, into six and two thirds shares of the Companys common stock, subject to adjustment in certain events. The Series A Preferred Stock is not mandatorily redeemable, but is redeemable at the option of the Company at any time after September 1, 2007. When, as and if declared by the Companys board of directors, holders of the Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to receive cumulative cash dividends at the rate of 6.75% of the $50 per share liquidation preference per annum per share (equivalent to $3.375 per annum per share). The Company paid dividends of $12.5 million during 2005 and $3.3 million during 2004 to holders of the Series A Preferred Stock. Subsequent to December 31, 2005, the Companys board of directors declared a dividend of $0.84375 per share, payable on March 15, 2006 to holders of record of Series A Preferred Stock as of the close of trading on March 1, 2006. Based on the 2,636,597 shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding as of March 10, 2006, TIMET would expect to pay approximately $8.9 million of dividends on these shares during 2006. Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle. On January 1, 2003, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, and recognized (i) an asset retirement cost capitalized as an increase to the carrying value of its property, plant and equipment of approximately $0.2 million, (ii) accumulated depreciation on such capitalized cost of approximately $0.1 million and (iii) a liability for the asset retirement obligation of approximately $0.3 million. The asset retirement obligation recognized relates primarily to landfill closure and leasehold restoration costs. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. European operations. The Company has substantial operations located in Europe, principally in the United Kingdom, France and Italy. Approximately 39% of the Companys sales revenue originated in Europe in 2005, of which approximately 58% was denominated in the British pound sterling or the euro. Certain purchases of raw materials, principally titanium sponge and alloys, for the Companys European operations are denominated in U.S. dollars, while labor and other production costs are primarily denominated in local currencies. The functional currencies of the Companys European subsidiaries are those of their respective countries, and the European subsidiaries are subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may impact reported earnings and may affect the comparability of period to period operating results. Borrowings of the Companys European operations may be in U.S. dollars or in functional currencies. The Companys export sales from the U.S. are denominated in U.S. dollars and as such are not subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations. The Company does not use currency contracts to hedge its currency exposures. Net currency transaction gains or losses included in results of operations were a $2.3 million gain in 2005 and losses of $0.5 million in 2004 and $0.2 million in 2003. At December 31, 2005, consolidated assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currencies were approximately $51.2 million and $46.4 million, respectively, consisting primarily of U.S. dollar cash, accounts receivable and accounts payable. VALTIMET has entered into certain derivative financial instruments that qualify as cash flow hedges under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). The Companys pro rata share of VALTIMETs unrealized net gains on such derivative financial instruments is included as a component of other comprehensive income. Related party transactions. The Company is a party to certain transactions with related parties. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Outlook. The Outlook section contains a number of forward looking statements, all of which are based on current expectations and exclude the effect of potential future charges related to restructurings, asset impairments, valuation allowances, changes in accounting principles and similar items, unless otherwise noted. Undue reliance should not be placed on these statements, as more fully discussed in the "Forward Looking Information" statement of this Annual Report. Actual results may differ materially. See also Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements regarding commitments, contingencies, legal matters, environmental matters and other matters, including new accounting principles, which could materially affect the Companys future business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. In 2005, TIMET achieved all time record levels for net sales, operating income and net income. These levels were largely driven by increased demand in the commercial aerospace sector that, when coupled with the relatively short supply of raw materials, resulted in average selling prices for both melted and mill products reaching their highest historical levels at $19.85 and $41.75 per kilogram, respectively. The Company expects that the current up cycle will continue beyond 2006. The Company continues to see the availability of certain raw materials tighten, and, consequently, the prices for such raw materials increase. The Company currently expects that the shortage in certain raw materials is likely to continue throughout 2006, which could limit the Companys ability to produce enough titanium products to fully meet customer demand. In addition, TIMET has certain long term customer agreements that will somewhat limit the Companys ability to pass on all of its increased raw material costs. However, the Company expects that the impact of higher average selling prices for melted and mill products in 2006 will more than offset such increased raw materials costs. As compared to 2005, the Company currently expects its 2006 net sales revenue to increase by 35% to 50% to between $1.0 billion and $1.1 billion. Mill product sales volume, which was 12,660 metric tons in 2005, is expected to range from 14,500 and 15,000 metric tons in 2006, an increase of 15% to 18%. Melted product sales volume, which was 5,655 metric tons in 2005, is expected to remain relatively unchanged in 2006. Melted product average selling prices are expected to increase by 75% to 80% and mill product average selling prices are expected increase by 25% to 30%, as compared to 2005. The Companys cost of sales is affected by a number of factors including customer and product mix, material yields, plant operating rates, raw material costs, labor costs and energy costs. Raw material costs, which include sponge, scrap and alloys, represent the largest portion of the Companys manufacturing cost structure, and, as previously discussed, continued cost increases are expected during 2006. Scrap and certain alloy prices have continued their upward rise, and increased energy costs also continue to have a negative impact on gross margin. The Company currently expects production volumes to continue to increase in 2006, with overall capacity utilization expected to approximate 88% in 2006 (as compared to 80% in 2005). However, practical capacity utilization measures can vary significantly based on product mix. Selling, general, administrative and development expenses are expected to increase slightly but decrease as a percentage of sales. Under the terms of the new Boeing LTA, as previously discussed, the Company does not currently expect Boeing to incur a makeup payment for 2006 as Boeing is expected to purchase at least the minimum specified volumes from the Company. The Company expects its 2006 operating income to increase 50% to 65% over 2005, to between $257 million and $282 million. Capital expenditures during 2006 are expected to range from $90 million to $100 million. The increased spending over 2005 primarily reflects $23 million related to the expansion of the sponge plant in Henderson, Nevada and additional capacity improvements as the Company continues to respond to the increased demand by its customers. Depreciation and amortization should approximate $36 million in 2006. Non GAAP financial measures. In an effort to provide investors with information in addition to the Companys results as determined GAAP, the Company has provided the following non GAAP financial disclosures that it believes may provide useful information to investors: o The Company discloses percentage changes in its mill and melted product selling prices in U.S. dollars, which have been adjusted to exclude the effects of changes in product mix. The Company believes such disclosure provides useful information to investors by allowing them to analyze such changes without the impact of changes in product mix, thereby facilitating period to period comparisons of the relative changes in average selling prices. Depending on the composition of changes in product mix, the percentage change in selling prices excluding the effect of changes in product mix can be higher or lower than such percentage change would be using the actual product mix prevailing during the respective periods; o In addition to disclosing percentage changes in its mill product selling prices adjusted to exclude the effects of changes in product mix, the Company also discloses such percentage changes in billing currencies, which also excludes the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company believes such disclosure provides useful information to investors by allowing them to analyze such changes without the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period to period comparisons of the relative changes in average selling prices in the various actual billing currencies. Generally, when the U.S. dollar strengthens (weakens) against other currencies, the percentage change in selling prices in billing currencies will be higher (lower) than such percentage changes would be using actual exchange rates prevailing during the respective periods; and o The Company has disclosed operating income excluding the impact of the Boeing take or pay income. The Company believes this provides investors with useful information to better analyze the Companys business and possible future earnings. Effective July 1, 2005, the Company entered into a new LTA with Boeing, replacing the take or pay provisions with an annual makeup payment early in the following year in the event Boeing purchases less than its annual volume commitment in any year. See "Summarized Financial Information" for additional information regarding the Boeing LTA. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The Companys consolidated cash flows for each of the past three years are presented below. The following should be read in conjunction with the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto. Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (In thousands) Cash provided (used) by: Operating activities $ 72,896 $ (22,433) $ 65,821 Investing activities (61,486) (44,528) (14,534) Financing activities (28) 38,742 (22,068) Net cash provided (used) by operating, investing and financing activities $ 11,382 $ (28,219) $ 29,219 Operating activities. The titanium industry historically has derived a substantial portion of its business from the aerospace industry. The aerospace industry is cyclical, and changes in economic conditions within the aerospace industry significantly impact the Companys earnings and operating cash flows. Cash flow from operations has been a primary source of the Companys liquidity. Changes in titanium pricing, production volume and customer demand, among other things, could significantly affect the Companys liquidity. Certain items included in the determination of net loss have an impact on cash flows from operating activities, but the impact of such items on cash may differ from their impact on net loss. For example, pension expense and postretirement healthcare and life insurance ("OPEB") expense will generally differ from the outflows of cash for payment of such benefits. In addition, relative changes in assets and liabilities generally result from the timing of production, sales and purchases. Such relative changes can significantly impact the comparability of cash flow from operations from period to period, as the income statement impact of such items may occur in a different period than that in which the underlying cash transaction occurs. For example, raw materials may be purchased in one period, but the cash payment for such raw materials may occur in a subsequent period. Similarly, inventory may be sold in one period, but the cash collection of the receivable may occur in a subsequent period. The Companys net income increased from $47.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 to $155.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Accounts receivable increased during 2005 primarily due to increased sales, as fourth quarter 2005 net sales, the primary source of the year end accounts receivable balance, increased 61% over the year ago period. Similarly, accounts receivable increased during 2004 primarily due to a 36% increase in fourth quarter 2004 net sales over the fourth quarter of 2003. Accounts receivable decreased during 2003 primarily due to improved collection efforts with the Companys customers, partially offset by the weakening of the U.S. dollar compared to the British pound sterling and the euro. Inventories increased during each of 2005 and 2004 as a result of increased capacity utilization and related inventory build in order to meet expected customer demand during the respective following year, as well as the effects of increased raw material costs. Inventories decreased during 2003 primarily due to the Companys concentrated focus on inventory reduction during 2003. Changes in accounts payable and accrued liabilities reflect, among other things, the timing of payments to suppliers of titanium sponge, titanium scrap and other raw material purchases. Accrued liabilities increased during 2005 primarily due to a $7.5 million increase in the Companys accrual for employee profit sharing payments to be made in 2006. Accrued liabilities increased during 2004 primarily due to (i) a $12.0 million net increase in the Companys accrual for incentive compensation for potential employee profit sharing payments to be made in 2005 and (ii) a $1.1 million increase to the Companys accrual for costs expected to be incurred for environmental remediation at the Companys Henderson, Nevada facility. These increases were partially offset by (i) payment of the $2.8 million final installment related to termination of the prior Wyman Gordon agreement, (ii) a $1.9 million reduction of the Companys vacation accrual related to the Companys modification of its vacation policy for its U.S salaried employees and (iii) a $3.5 million reclassification of the Companys U.S. defined benefit pension liability from current to noncurrent, as the Companys short term cash contribution requirements decreased significantly. Pursuant to the Companys previous agreement with Boeing, Boeing advanced TIMET $28.5 million annually less $3.80 per pound of titanium product purchased by Boeing subcontractors during the preceding year. The Company received a $27.9 million advance for 2005 in January 2005, a $27.9 million advance for 2004 in January 2004 and a $27.7 million advance for 2003 in January 2003. Effective July 1, 2005, the Company entered into a new Boeing LTA, which replaced the previous LTAs take or pay provisions with an annual makeup payment early in the following year in the event Boeing purchases less than its annual volume commitment in any year. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. See "Results of Operations Income taxes" for discussion of the Companys income taxes. In October 2002, the Company exercised its right to defer future interest payments on its Subordinated Debentures held by the Capital Trust, effective beginning with the Companys December 1, 2002 scheduled interest payment, although interest continued to accrue at the coupon rate on the principal and unpaid interest. On April 15, 2004, the Company paid all previously deferred and accrued interest in the amount of $21.7 million ($21.0 million of which related to the BUCS) and on June 1, 2004, the Company resumed its quarterly interest payments on the Subordinated Debentures. Changes in accrued interest on debt payable to the Capital Trust reflect this activity. Investing activities. During 2005 and 2004, the Company purchased 146,900 and 2,549,520 shares of CompX International, Inc. ("CompX") Class A common stock, respectively, for $2.2 million and $32.0 million, respectively. During 2004, the Company purchased 222,100 shares of NL Industries, Inc. ("NL") common stock for $2.5 million. See further discussion in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Companys capital expenditures were $61.1 million in 2005, $23.6 million in 2004 and $12.5 million in 2003, principally for replacement and expansion of machinery and equipment and for capacity maintenance. The 2005 amount includes $24.2 million related to the construction of the water conservation facility and $11.8 million related to the Companys sponge plant expansion in Henderson, Nevada. The 2004 amount includes $3.9 million related to construction of the water conservation facility. During the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company deposited funds into certificates of deposit and other interest bearing accounts as collateral for certain Company obligations in lieu of entering into letters of credit. These deposits, which are restricted as to the Companys use, provide the Company with interest income as opposed to interest expense incurred through the use of letters of credit. During each of 2005 and 2004, certain of these deposits were liquidated in favor of entering into letters of credit because the Company was primarily a net borrower during these periods and the use of this cash reduced overall borrowing costs. Financing activities. Cash used during 2005 was primarily related to $12.5 million of dividends paid on the Series A Preferred Stock and $2.2 million of dividends paid to CEZUS, partially offset by the Companys net borrowings of $8.3 million and $6.4 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock upon exercise of options. Cash provided during 2004 related primarily to the Companys net borrowings of $43.2 million, which the Company primarily used to support the accumulation of inventory in order to meet expected customer demand for 2005 and also support capital expenditures and the acquisition of marketable securities. In addition, the Company paid dividends on its Series A Preferred Stock of $3.3 million and TIMET Savoie made a $0.7 million dividend payment to CEZUS during 2004. Cash used during 2003 related primarily to the Companys $19.3 million of net repayments on its outstanding borrowings upon the Companys receipt of a $27.7 million customer advance in January 2003. Additionally, TIMET Savoie made a $1.9 million dividend payment to CEZUS during 2003. See further discussion below in "Liquidity and Capital Resources Borrowing arrangements." Borrowing arrangements. As of December 31, 2005, the Companys outstanding borrowings under its U.S. credit agreement were $40.3 million and excess availability was approximately $79 million. On February 17, 2006, the Company entered into a new $175 million long term credit agreement (the "New U.S. Facility"), replacing its previous U.S credit agreement, which was terminated on that date. The New U.S. Facility is secured primarily by the Companys U.S. accounts receivable, inventory, personal property, intangible assets, a pledge of 65% of TIMET UKs common stock and a negative pledge on U.S. fixed assets, and matures in February 2011. Borrowings under the New U.S. Facility accrue interest at the U.S. prime rate or varying LIBOR based rates based on a quarterly ratio of outstanding debt to EBITDA as defined by the agreement. The New U.S. Facility also provides for the issuance of up to $10 million of letters of credit. The New U.S. Facility contains certain restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit or restrict the ability of the Company to incur debt, incur liens, make investments, make capital expenditures or pay dividends. The New U.S. Facility also requires compliance with certain financial covenants, including a minimum tangible net worth covenant, a fixed charge coverage ratio and a leverage ratio, and contains other covenants customary in lending transactions of this type including cross default provisions with respect to other debt and obligations of the Company. Borrowings under the New U.S. Facility are limited to the lesser of $175 million or a formula determined amount based upon U.S. accounts receivable, inventory and fixed assets (subject to pledging fixed assets). Such formula determined amount only applies if borrowings exceed 60% of the commitment amount or the leverage ratio exceeds a certain limitation. At February 17, 2006, approximately $21 million was outstanding under the New U.S. Facility and $4.4 million of letters of credit were issued and outstanding. The Companys previous U.S. credit agreement contained similar covenant compliance requirements, and the Company was in compliance with all such covenants for all periods during the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Under the previous U.S. credit agreement, the Company was required to maintain a lock box arrangement whereby daily net cash receipts were used to reduce outstanding borrowings. Accordingly, any outstanding balances under the previous U.S. credit agreement were classified as a current liability, regardless of the maturity date of the agreement. As a result of the Companys entrance into the New U.S. Facility, which does not contain a similar requirement regarding the application of daily net cash receipts, borrowings under the Companys previous U.S. credit agreement have been re classified to long term on the Companys balance sheet as of December 31, 2005. Under the Companys previous U.S. credit agreement, interest accrued at rates based on LIBOR plus 2% and bank prime rate plus 0.5%. The weighted average interest rate on borrowings outstanding was 6.4% as of December 31, 2005 and 4.3% as of December 31, 2004. Borrowings were collateralized by substantially all of the Companys U.S. assets. During the second quarter of 2005, the Companys subsidiary, TIMET UK, terminated its previous credit facility (the "U.K. Facilities") and entered into a new working capital credit facility (the "New U.K. Facility") that expires on April 30, 2008. Under the New U.K. facility, TIMET UK may borrow up to (pound)22.5 million, subject to a formula determined borrowing base derived from the value of accounts receivable, inventory and property, plant and equipment. Borrowings under the New U.K. facility can be in various currencies, including U.S. dollars, British pounds sterling and euros and are collateralized by substantially all of TIMET UKs assets. Interest on outstanding borrowings generally accrues at rates that vary from 1.125% to 1.375% above the lenders published base rate. The New U.K. facility also contains financial ratios and covenants customary in lending transactions of this type, including a minimum net worth covenant. TIMET UK was in compliance with all covenants for all periods during the year ended December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had outstanding borrowings under the New U.K. Facility of $11.1 million, and excess availability was approximately $28 million. The weighted average interest rate on borrowings outstanding under the New U.K. facility was 5.6% as of December 31, 2005. The U.K. Facilities included revolving and term loan facilities and an overdraft facility and required the maintenance of certain financial ratios and amounts, including a minimum net worth covenant and other covenants customary in lending transactions of this type. TIMET UK was in compliance with all covenants for all periods during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the second quarter of 2003, TIMET UK received an interest bearing intercompany loan from a U.S. subsidiary of the Company enabling TIMET UK to reduce its long term borrowings under the U.K. Facilities to zero. This loan was repaid in full during the third quarter of 2004. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had no borrowings under the U.K. Facilities. The Company also has overdraft and other credit facilities at certain of its other European subsidiaries that aggregate the equivalent of $19 million at December 31, 2005. These facilities accrue interest at various rates and are payable on demand. At December 31, 2005, approximately $2 million of letters of credit had been issued under these facilities. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, there were no outstanding borrowings under these other facilities, and unused borrowing availability at December 31, 2005 was approximately $17 million. No dividends were paid by TIMET on its common stock during 2005, 2004 or 2003. The Company paid dividends on its Series A Preferred Stock in the amount of $12.5 million in 2005 and $3.3 million in 2004. Subsequent to December 31, 2005, the Companys board of directors declared a dividend of $0.84375 per share, payable on March 15, 2006 to holders of record of Series A Preferred Stock as of the close of trading on March 1, 2006. Contractual commitments. As more fully described in Notes 11, 12, 18 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company was a party to various debt, lease and other agreements at December 31, 2005 that contractually commits the Company to pay certain amounts in the future. The following table summarizes such contractual commitments that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms, including pricing, quantity and date of payment: Payment Due Date 2007/ 2009/ 2011 & Contractual Commitment 2006 2008 2010 After Total (In thousands) Capital leases (1) $ 28 $ 56 $ 56 $ 50 $ 190 Operating leases 3,103 6,003 4,479 18,512 32,097 Long term debt (2) 11,104 40,255 51,359 Debt payable to Capital Trust (and accrued interest thereon at December 31, 2005) 33 5,852 5,885 Purchase obligations: Raw materials (3) 108,643 36,715 2,800 2,800 150,958 Other (4) 30,048 18,515 12,990 24,204 85,757 Other contractual obligations (5) 14,026 14,026 $ 155,881 $ 72,393 $ 20,325 $ 91,673 $ 340,272 (1) Includes interest payments due under the capital lease agreements. (2) Subsequent to December 31, 2005, the Company entered into a new U.S. credit agreement, which matures in 2011. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (3) These obligations generally relate to the purchase of titanium sponge pursuant to an LTA that expires on December 31, 2007 (as described in Item 1: Business) and various other open orders or commitments for purchase of raw materials. The LTA does not contain automatic renewal provisions; however, the Company may enter into a new agreement to replace the current LTA in the future. (4) These obligations generally relate to contractual operating fees paid to CEZUS for use of a portion of its Ugine, France plant pursuant to an agreement expiring in 2006 (as described in Item 2: Properties), energy purchase obligations with BMI which expire in 2010 (as described in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), an obligation to Contran under an intercorporate services agreement ("ISA") for 2006 (as described in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), a capital contribution obligation to BAOTIMET and various other open orders for purchase of energy, utilities and property and equipment. These obligations are generally based on an average price and an assumed constant mix of products purchased, as appropriate. The Company expects to enter into an ISA annually with Contran subsequent to 2006. All open orders are for delivery in 2006. (5) These other obligations are recorded on the Companys balance sheet as of December 31, 2005 and consist of current income taxes payable, a contract for removal of environmental waste and obligations related to workers compensation bonds discussed in "Liquidity and Capital Resources Off balance sheet arrangements." The Company has excluded any potential commitment for funding of retirement and postretirement benefit plans from this table. However, such potential future contributions are discussed below, as appropriate, in "Liquidity and Capital Resources Defined benefit pension plans" and "Liquidity and Capital Resources Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions." Off balance sheet arrangements. As more fully discussed in "Results of Operations Non operating income (expense)," the Company is the primary obligor on two $1.5 million workers compensation bonds issued on behalf of Freedom Forge. The Company has fully expensed the obligation under the first of these bonds. Based upon current claims analysis, the Company has expensed only $0.2 million on the second bond and although it is potentially obligated for the remaining $1.3 million, the Company does not currently expect any additional claims to be filed on this second bond. Additionally, the Company has entered into letters of credit to collateralize (i) potential workers compensation claims in Ohio and Nevada and (ii) future usage of electricity in Nevada. The Companys excess availability under its U.S. credit agreement has been reduced by $2.3 million and $2.1 million, respectively, related to such letters of credit. The Company has entered into letters of credit to collateralize (i) potential workers compensation claims in Ohio and Nevada and (i) future usage of electricity in Nevada. The Companys excess availability under its U.S. credit agreement has been reduced by $2.3 million and $2.1 million, respectively, related to such letters of credit. Additionally, the Company has entered into a letter of credit to collateralize various business obligations, wich has reduced the Companys excess availability under its other European credit facilities by approximately $2 million. Defined benefit pension plans. As of December 31, 2005, the Company maintains three defined benefit pension plans one each in the U.S., the U.K. and France. Prior to December 31, 2003, the U.S. maintained two plans, which were merged as of that date. The majority of the discussion below relates to the U.S. and U.K. plans, as the French plan is not material to the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets, Statements of Operations or Statements of Cash Flows. The Company recorded consolidated pension expense of $7.9 million in 2005, $7.7 million in 2004 and $8.9 million in 2003. Pension expense for these periods, the majority of which related to the U.K. plan, was calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, most significant of which are the discount rate and the expected long term rate of return. The discount rate the Company utilizes for determining pension expense and pension obligations is based on a review of long term bonds (10 to 15 year maturities) that receive one of the two highest ratings given by recognized rating agencies (generally Merrill Lynch, Moodys, Solomon Smith Barney and UBS Warburg) as well as composite indices provided by the Companys actuaries. Changes in the Companys discount rate over the past three years reflect the decline in such bond rates during that period. The Company establishes a rate that is used to determine obligations as of the year end date and expense for the subsequent year. The Company used the following discount rate assumptions for its pension plans: Discount rates used for: Obligation at Obligation at Obligation at December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 and expense in 2006 and expense in 2005 and expense in 2004 U.S. Plan 5.50% 5.65% 6.00% U.K. Plan 4.75% 5.30% 5.50% In developing the Companys expected long term rate of return assumptions, the Company evaluates historical market rates of return and input from its actuaries, including a review of asset class return expectations as well as long term inflation assumptions. Projected returns are based on broad equity (large cap, small cap and international) and bond (corporate and government) indices as well as anticipation that the plans active investment managers will generate premiums above the standard market projections. The Company used the following long term rate of return assumptions for its pension plans: Long term rates of return used for: Obligation at Obligation at Obligation at December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 and expense in 2006 and expense in 2005 and expense in 2004 U.S. Plan 10.00% 10.00% 10.00% U.K. Plan 6.70% 7.10% 7.10% Lowering the expected long term rate of return on the Companys U.S. plans assets by 0.5% (from 10.00% to 9.50%) would have increased 2005 pension expense by approximately $0.3 million, and lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 5.65% to 5.40%) would have increased the Companys U.S. plans 2005 pension expense by approximately $0.1 million. Lowering the expected long term rate of return on the Companys U.K. plans assets by 0.5% (from 7.10% to 6.60%) would have increased 2005 pension expense by approximately $0.6 million, and lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 5.30% to 5.05%) would have increased the Companys U.K. plans 2005 pension expense by approximately $0.7 million. During the second quarter of 2003, the Company transferred all of its U.S. plans assets into the Combined Master Retirement Trust ("CMRT"). The CMRT is a collective investment trust established by Valhi to permit the collective investment by certain master trusts which fund certain employee benefits plans sponsored by Valhi and certain related companies. A sub account of the CMRT held 10.8% of TIMET common stock at December 31, 2005; however, the Companys plan assets are invested only in the portion of the CMRT that does not hold TIMET common stock. At December 31, 2005, Valhi and related entities or persons (excluding the CMRT) held approximately 41.8% of TIMETs outstanding common stock and approximately 54.1% of the Companys Series A Preferred Stock. Harold C. Simmons, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Valhi and TIMET, is the sole trustee of the CMRT and a member of the trust investment committee for the CMRT. The CMRTs long term investment objective is to provide a rate of return exceeding a composite of broad market equity and fixed income indices (including the S&P 500 and certain Russell indices) utilizing both third party investment managers as well as investments directed by Mr. Simmons. During the 18 year history of the CMRT through December 31, 2005, the average annual rate of return earned by the CMRT, as calculated based on the average percentage change in the CMRTs net asset value per CMRT unit for each applicable year, has been 14% (with a 36% return for 2005). At December 31, 2005, the CMRTs asset mix (based on an aggregate asset value of $691 million) was 86% U.S. equity securities, 7% foreign equity securities, 3% debt securities and 4% cash and other. The CMRT`s trustee and investment committee actively manage the investments within the CMRT. Such parties have in the past, and may again in the future, periodically change the relative asset mix based upon, among other things, advice they receive from third party advisors and their expectation as to what asset mix will generate the greatest overall return. Based on the above, the Company set its long term rate of return assumption at 10.0% for December 31, 2005 and 2004 pension obligations and 2006, 2005 and 2004 pension expense for its U.S. plan. Because of market fluctuations and prior funding strategies, actual asset allocation as of December 31, 2005 was 84.6% equity securities and 15.4% fixed income securities for the U.K. plan. During 2003, the trustees for the U.K. plan selected a new investment advisor (effective in 2004) for the U.K. plan and modified its asset allocation goals. The Companys future expected long term rate of return on plan assets for its U.K. plan is based on an asset allocation assumption of 60% equity securities and 40% fixed income securities and all current contributions to the plan are invested wholly in fixed income securities in order to gradually effect the shift. Based on various factors, including improved economic and market conditions, gains on the plan assets during 2003 and projected asset mix, the Company increased its assumed long term rate of return for December 31, 2003 pension obligations and for 2004 pension expense to 7.10% for its U.K. plan and maintained the assumption for December 31, 2004 pension obligations and for 2005 pension expense. Because all contributions continue to be put into fixed income securities, the Company expects the plans asset mix to continue moving closer to the projected mix, which reflects a higher percentage of fixed income securities. As such, the Company decreased its assumed long term rate of return for December 31, 2005 pension obligations and for 2006 pension expense to 6.70% for its U.K. plan. Although the expected rate of return is a long term measure, the Company will continue to evaluate its expected rate of return, at least annually, and will adjust it as considered necessary. The expected return on the fair value of the plan assets, determined based on the expected long term rate of return, is a component of pension expense. This methodology further recognizes actual investment gains or losses (i.e., the difference between the expected and actual returns based on the market value of assets) in pension expense through amortization in future periods based upon the expected average remaining service life of the plan participants. Unrealized gains or losses may impact future periods to the extent the accumulated gains or losses are outside the "corridor" as defined by SFAS No. 87. Based on an expected rate of return on plan assets of 10.00%, a discount rate of 5.50% and various other assumptions, the Company estimates that its U.S. plan will have pension income of approximately $2.8 million in 2006, approximately $3.2 million in 2007 and approximately $3.7 million in 2008. A 0.25% increase (decrease) in the discount rate would increase (decrease) projected pension income by approximately $0.1 million in each of 2006, 2007 and 2008. A 0.5% increase (decrease) in the long term rate of return would increase (decrease) projected pension income by approximately $0.4 million in 2006 and $0.5 million in each of 2007 and 2008. Based on an expected rate of return on plan assets of 6.70%, a discount rate of 4.75% and various other assumptions (including an exchange rate of $1.75/(pound)1.00), the Company estimates that pension expense for its U.K. plan will approximate $6.4 million in 2006, $6.0 million in 2007 and $5.3 million in 2008. A 0.25% increase (decrease) in the discount rate would decrease (increase) projected pension expense by approximately $0.8 million in 2006 and 2007 and by $0.7 million in 2008. A 0.5% increase (decrease) in the long term rate of return would decrease (increase) projected pension expense by approximately $0.7 million in 2006, $0.8 million in 2007 and $1.0 million in 2008. Actual future pension expense will depend on actual future investment performance, changes in future discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in the Companys pension plans. The Company made cash contributions of approximately $1.8 million in 2004 and $4.4 million in 2003 to the U.S. plans and cash contributions of approximately $9.1 million in 2005, $8.2 million in 2004 and $7.3 million in 2003 to the U.K. plan. Based upon the current funded status of the plans and the actuarial assumptions being used for 2006, the Company believes that it will be required to make the following cash contributions (exclusive of any required employee contributions) over the next five years: Projected cash contributions U.S. Plan U.K.Plan Total (In millions, and using an exchange rate of $1.75/(pound)1.00 for U.K. plan ) Year ending December 31, 2006 $ 0.4 $ 8.1 $ 8.5 2007 $ 0.1 $ 8.3 $ 8.4 2008 $ $ 8.6 $ 8.6 2009 $ $ 8.9 $ 8.9 2010 $ $ 9.2 $ 9.2 The U.S. plan(s) paid benefits of approximately $5.6 million in 2005, $5.7 million in 2004 and $5.6 million in 2003, and the U.K. plan paid benefits of approximately $4.3 million in 2005, $4.7 million in 2004 and $4.3 million in 2003. Based upon current projections, the Company believes the plans will be required to pay the following benefits over the next ten years: Projected retirement benefits U.S. Plan U.K.Plan Total (In millions, and using an exchange rate of $1.75/(pound)1.00 for U.K. plan ) Year ending December 31, 2006 $ 5.9 $ 4.3 $ 10.2 2007 $ 5.9 $ 4.4 $ 10.3 2008 $ 5.9 $ 4.5 $ 10.4 2009 $ 5.9 $ 4.6 $ 10.5 2010 $ 5.9 $ 4.8 $ 10.7 2011 through 2015 $ 29.4 $ 25.8 $ 55.2 The value of the plans assets has increased significantly over the past three years based mainly on performance of the plans equity securities. The U.S. plans assets were $84.7 million, $67.2 million and $60.7 million at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and the U.K. plans assets were $138.1 million, $121.0 million and $97.8 million at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The combination of actual investment returns, changing discount rates and changes in other assumptions has a significant effect on the Companys funded plan status (plan assets compared to projected benefit obligations). In 2005, the effect of positive investment returns more than offset the effects of a decline in the discount rate, thereby moving the U.S. plan into a $5.3 million over funded status at December 31, 2005. Whereas, in 2004, the effect of positive investment returns and cash contributions was more than offset by the effect of a decline in the discount rate and certain changes in mortality and other retirement assumptions, thereby increasing in the U.S. plans under funded status by $1.3 million to $11.4 million at December 31, 2004. In 2005 the effect of positive investment returns in the U.K. plan, as well as the effect of the strengthening dollar compared to the British pound sterling, more than offset the decline in the discount rate, thereby reducing the U.K. plans under funded status by $7.2 million to $54.8 million at December 31, 2005. Whereas, in 2004, the effect of positive investment returns was more than offset by the effect of a decline in the discount rate and certain changes in mortality and retirement assumptions, as well as the effect of the weakening dollar compared to the British pound sterling, thereby increasing the under funded status of the U.K. plan by $8.4 million to $62.0 million at December 31, 2004. Based upon the change in the funded status of the plans during 2005, the Company was able to reduce its net additional minimum pension liability charge (net of tax) to equity by $17.2 million, reflecting additional comprehensive income of $16.6 million for the U.S. plan (based on elimination of the additional minimum pension liability for this plan) and additional comprehensive income of $0.6 million for the U.K. plan. Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions. The Company provides limited OPEB benefits to a portion of its U.S. employees upon retirement. The Company funds such OPEB benefits as they are incurred, net of any retiree contributions. The Company paid OPEB benefits, net of retiree contributions, of $2.3 million in 2005, $2.5 million in 2004 and $3.1 million in 2003. The Company recorded consolidated OPEB expense of $2.8 million in 2005, $3.0 million in 2004 and $2.7 million in 2003. OPEB expense for these periods was calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, most significant of which are the discount rate and the expected long term health care trend rate. The discount rate the Company utilizes for determining OPEB expense and OPEB obligations is the same as that used for the Companys U.S. pension plans. Lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 5.65% to 5.4%) would have increased the Companys 2005 OPEB expense by less than $0.1 million. The Company estimates the expected long term health care trend rate based upon input from specialists in this area, as provided by the Companys actuaries. In estimating the health care trend rate, the Company considers industry trends, the Companys actual healthcare cost experience and the Companys future benefit structure. For 2005, the Company used a beginning health care trend rate of 9.29%, which is projected to reduce to an ultimate rate of 4.0% in 2010. If the health care trend rate changed by 1.00% for each year, OPEB expense would have increased/decreased by approximately $0.2 million in 2005. For 2006, the Company is using a beginning health care trend rate of 8.23%, which is projected to reduce to an ultimate rate of 4.0% in 2010. Based on a discount rate of 5.5%, a health care trend rate as discussed above and various other assumptions, the Company estimates that OPEB expense will approximate $2.8 million in 2006, $2.7 million in 2007 and $2.8 million in 2008. A 0.25% increase (decrease) in the discount rate would decrease (increase) projected OPEB expense by less than $0.1 million in each of 2006, 2007 and 2008. A 1.0% increase (decrease) in the health care trend rate for each year would increase (decrease) the projected service and interest cost components of OPEB expense by approximately $0.2 million in 2006 and by $0.3 million in each of 2007 and 2008. Based upon current projections, the Company will be required to pay the following OPEB benefits over the next ten years: Projected Projected Projected Projected net gross payments retiree Part D payments contributions subsidy (In millions) Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 3.8 (1.4) (0.2) $ 2.2 2007 $ 4.0 (1.5) (0.4) $ 2.1 2008 $ 4.3 (1.6) (0.4) $ 2.3 2009 $ 4.6 (1.7) (0.5) $ 2.4 2010 $ 4.8 (1.8) (0.5) $ 2.5 2011 through 2015 $ 29.0 (10.8) (3.0) $ 15.2 Environmental matters. See "Business Regulatory and environmental matters" in Item 1 and Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of environmental matters. Other. The Company periodically evaluates its liquidity requirements, capital needs and availability of resources in view of, among other things, its alternative uses of capital, debt service requirements, the cost of debt and equity capital and estimated future operating cash flows. As a result of this process, the Company has in the past, or in light of its current outlook, may in the future, seek to raise additional capital, modify its common and preferred dividend policies, restructure ownership interests, incur, refinance or restructure indebtedness, repurchase shares of common stock, purchase or redeem BUCS or Series A Preferred Stock, sell assets, or take a combination of such steps or other steps to increase or manage its liquidity and capital resources. In the normal course of business, the Company investigates, evaluates, discusses and engages in acquisition, joint venture, strategic relationship and other business combination opportunities in the titanium, specialty metal and other industries. In the event of any future acquisition or joint venture opportunities, the Company may consider using then available liquidity, issuing equity securities or incurring additional indebtedness. Corporations that may be deemed to be controlled by or affiliated with Mr. Simmons sometimes engage in (i) intercorporate transactions such as guarantees, management and expense sharing arrangements, shared fee arrangements, joint ventures, partnerships, loans, options, advances of funds on open account, and sales, leases and exchanges of assets, including securities issued by both related and unrelated parties, and (ii) common investment and acquisition strategies, business combinations, reorganizations, recapitalizations, securities repurchases, and purchases and sales (and other acquisitions and dispositions) of subsidiaries, divisions or other business units, which transactions have involved both related and unrelated parties and have included transactions which resulted in the acquisition by one related party of a publicly held minority equity interest in another related party. The Company continuously considers, reviews and evaluates such transactions, and understands that Contran, Valhi and related entities consider, review and evaluate such transactions. Depending upon the business, tax and other objectives then relevant, it is possible that the Company might be a party to one or more such transactions in the future. During the first nine months of 2004, the Company purchased 2,212,820 shares of CompX International, Inc ("CompX") Class A common shares, representing approximately 14.6% of the total number of shares of all classes of CompX common stock outstanding at that date. As of September 30, 2004, NL Industries, Inc. ("NL"), a subsidiary of Valhi, held an additional 68.4% of CompX. Effective on October 1, 2004, the Company and NL contributed 100% of their respective holdings on that date of all classes of CompX common stock to CompX Group, Inc. ("CGI") in return for a 17.6% and 82.4% ownership interest in CGI, respectively, and CGI became the owner of the 83.0% of CompX that the Company and NL had previously held in the aggregate. The CompX shares are the sole assets of CGI. The Companys shares of CGI are redeemable at the option of the Company based upon the market value of the underlying CompX stock held by CGI. The fair value of the Companys investment in CGI is based on the market value of the underlying CompX shares. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company directly held 483,600 and 336,700, respectively, shares of CompX, which were purchased subsequent to October 1, 2004. The Company has not contributed any of the shares purchased subsequent to October 1, 2004 to CGI. Depending upon the Companys evaluation of the business and prospects of CompX, and upon future developments (including, but not limited to, performance of the Class A Shares in the market, availability of funds, alternative uses of funds, and money, stock market and general economic conditions), the Company may from time to time purchase, dispose of, or cease buying or selling Class A Shares. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The Companys Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments, and select from a range of possible estimates and assumptions, that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reported period. On an on going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable, inventory allowances, asset lives, impairments of investments in marketable securities and investments accounted for by the equity method, the recoverability of other long lived assets, including property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets, pension and other post retirement benefit obligations and the related underlying actuarial assumptions, the realization of deferred income tax assets, and accruals for asset retirement obligations, environmental remediation, litigation, income tax and other contingencies. The Company bases its estimates and judgments, to varying degrees, on historical experience, advice of external specialists and various other factors it believes to be prudent under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from previously estimated amounts and such estimates, assumptions and judgments are regularly subject to revision. The policies and estimates discussed below are considered by management to be critical to an understanding of the Companys financial statements because their application requires the most significant judgments from management in estimating matters for financial reporting that are inherently uncertain. See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these policies and estimates, as well as discussion of additional accounting policies and estimates. Inventory allowances. Prior to January 1, 2005, approximately 40% of the Companys inventories were determined using the LIFO method, with the balance determined primarily using an average cost method. Effective January 1, 2005, the Company changed its method for inventory costing from the LIFO method to the specific identification cost method for the inventories previously accounted for under the LIFO cost method. With the significant volatility seen recently in raw material prices, the Company believes this change in accounting method provides a better matching of revenues and expenses. As required by GAAP, the Company has restated its financial statements for prior periods. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company periodically reviews its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory and records any write down equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and its estimated net realizable value based upon assumptions about alternative uses, market conditions and other factors. Impairment of long lived assets. Generally, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of long lived assets, including property and equipment and intangible assets, may not be recoverable, the Company undertakes an evaluation of the assets or asset group. If this evaluation indicates that the carrying amount of the asset or asset group is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment would typically be calculated using discounted expected future cash flows or appraised values. All relevant factors are considered in determining whether an impairment exists. During 2005, the Company determined that certain of its manufacturing equipment would no longer be utilized in its operations, and, accordingly, recognized a $1.2 million noncash abandonment charge to cost of sales. In 2004, no such events or circumstances indicated the need to perform such evaluation. Valuation and impairment of securities. In accordance with SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, the Companys marketable securities, including the shares of CompX contributed by the Company and held by CGI (based upon the Companys redemption option), are classified as available for sale securities and are carried at fair value based upon quoted market prices, with unrealized gains and or losses included in stockholders equity as a component of other comprehensive income. The Company evaluates its investments in marketable securities whenever events or conditions occur to indicate that the fair value of such investments has declined below their carrying amounts. If the decline in fair value is judged to be other than temporary, the carrying amount of the security is written down to fair value. In 2005, no such events or circumstances indicated the need to perform such evaluation. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Deferred income tax valuation allowances. Under SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, and related guidance, the Company is required to record a valuation allowance if realization of deferred tax assets is not "more likely than not." Substantial weight must be given to recent historical results and near term projections, and management must assess the availability of tax planning strategies that might impact either the need for, or amount of, any valuation allowance. See "Results of Operations Income taxes" for discussion of the Companys analysis of its deferred income tax valuation allowances. Pension and OPEB expenses and obligations. The Companys pension and OPEB expenses and obligations are calculated based on several estimates, including discount rates, expected rates of returns on plan assets and expected health care trend rates. The Company reviews these rates annually with the assistance of its actuaries. See further discussion of the factors considered and potential effect of these estimates in "Liquidity and Capital Resources Defined benefit pension plans" and "Liquidity and Capital Resources Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions." Revenue recognition. Sales revenue is generally recognized when the Company has certified that its product meets the related customer specifications, the product has been shipped, and title and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the customer. Payments received from customers in advance of these criteria being met are recorded as customer advances until earned. For inventory consigned to customers, sales revenue is recognized when (i) the terms of the consignment end, (ii) the Company has completed performance of all significant obligations and (iii) title and substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the customer. Amounts charged to customers for shipping and handling are included in net sales. Sales revenue is stated net of price and early payment discounts. Other loss contingencies. Accruals for estimated loss contingencies, including, but not limited to, product related liabilities, environmental remediation and litigation, are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Disclosure is made when there is a reasonable possibility that a loss may have been incurred. Contingent liabilities are often resolved over long time periods. Estimating probable losses often requires analysis of various projections that are dependent upon the future outcome of multiple factors, including costs, the findings of investigations and actions by the Company and third parties. ITEM 7A: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest rates. The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates related to indebtedness. The Company typically does not enter into interest rate swaps or other types of contracts in order to manage its interest rate market risk. At December 31, 2005, all of the Companys bank indebtedness was denominated in U.S. dollars or British pounds sterling. At December 31, 2004, all of the Companys bank indebtedness was denominated in U.S. dollars. The Companys borrowings accrue interest at variable rates, generally related to spreads over bank prime rates and LIBOR. Because the Companys bank indebtedness reprices with changes in market interest rates, the carrying amount of such debt is believed to approximate fair value. The following table summarizes the Companys bank variable rate indebtedness and related maturities as of December 31, 2005: Contractual maturity date There after Interest 2006 2007 2008 2009 rate (1) (In millions) U. S. dollars (2) $ $ $ $ $ 40.3 6.4% British pounds sterling $ $ $ 11.1 $ $ 5.6% (1) Weighted average. (2) Subsequent to December 31, 2005, the Company entered into a new U.S. credit facility, which matures in 2010. The following table summarizes the Companys bank variable rate indebtedness and related maturities as of December 31, 2004: Contractual maturity date There Interest 2005 2006 2007 2008 after rate (1) (In millions) U. S. dollars (1) $ 43.2 $ $ $ $ 4.3% (1) Weighted average. The Subordinated Debentures held by the Capital Trust provide a fixed 6.625% coupon and are exposed to market risk from changing interest rates. During 2005, the trading volume of the BUCS was minimal and, therefore, the Company does not believe the last traded value of the BUCS necessarily provides a fair value of the underlying Subordinated Debentures. The BUCS issued by the Capital Trust are publicly traded and are convertible, at the option of the holder, into TIMET common stock at the rate of 2.678 shares of common stock per BUCS. Based on the last traded value of TIMET common stock ($31.63 per share) on or before December 31, 2005, the "as converted" value of the 113,467 BUCS outstanding at December 31, 2005 (which the Company believes provides a reasonable estimate of fair value of the Subordinated Debentures) was $9.6 million. Based on the last traded value of the BUCS on December 31, 2004 ($16.00 per BUCS), the fair value of the outstanding Subordinated Debentures related to the 115,717 outstanding BUCS approximated $1.9 million at December 31, 2004. On March 3, 2005, the Company called all of the outstanding BUCS for redemption. The redemption price equals 100.6625% of the $50.00 liquidation amount per BUCS, or $50.3313, plus accrued distributions to the March 24, 2006 redemption date on the BUCS of $0.2116 per BUCS. Foreign currency exchange rates. The Company is exposed to market risk arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of its international operations. The Company does not enter into currency forward contracts to manage its foreign exchange market risk associated with receivables, payables or indebtedness denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the particular entity. See "Results of Operations European operations" in Item 7 MD&A for further discussion. Commodity prices. The Company is exposed to market risk arising from changes in commodity prices as a result of its long term purchase and supply agreements with certain suppliers and customers. These agreements, which offer various fixed or formula determined pricing arrangements, effectively obligate the Company to bear (i) the risk of increased raw material and other costs to the Company that cannot be passed on to the Companys customers through increased titanium product prices (in whole or in part) or (ii) the risk of decreasing raw material costs to the Companys suppliers that are not passed on to the Company in the form of lower raw material prices. However, the Companys ability to offset increased material costs with higher selling prices should increase in 2006, as many of the Companys LTAs have either expired or have been renegotiated for 2006 with price adjustments that take into account raw material cost fluctuations. Securities prices. As of December 31, 2005, the Company holds certain publicly traded equity securities that are exposed to market risk due to changes in prices of the securities as reported on the New York Stock Exchange. The aggregate market value of these equity securities at December 31, 2005 was $46.5 million, as compared to a cost basis of $36.9 million. The potential change in the aggregate market value of these securities, assuming a 10% change in prices, would be $4.6 million at December 31, 2005. See also Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview. Aggregate shipment volumes for titanium mill products in 2005 was derived from the following sectors: TIMET Titanium Industry (1) Mill product Mill product shipments % of total shipments % of total (Metric tons) (Metric tons) Commercial aerospace 7,492 59% 24,000 35% Military 1,981 16% 6,200 9% Industrial 2,677 21% 35,600 52% Emerging markets 510 4% 2,700 4% 12,660 100% 68,500 100% (1) Estimates based on the Companys industry experience and information obtained from publicly available external resources (e.g., United States Geological Survey, International Titanium Association and Japan Titanium Society). The titanium industry derives a substantial portion of its demand from the highly cyclical commercial aerospace sector. As shown in the table, the Companys business is more dependent on commercial aerospace demand than is the overall titanium industry, and the Companys sales growth during 2005 has benefited from growth in this sector. The Companys 2005 revenue from sales of melted and mill products to the commercial aerospace sector increased by 51% compared to 2004. Effective July 1, 2005, the Company entered into a new LTA with Boeing for the purchase and sale of titanium products. The new LTA expires on December 31, 2010 and provides for, among other things, (i) mutual annual purchase and supply commitments by both parties, (ii) continuation of the existing buffer inventory program currently in place for Boeing and (iii) certain improved product pricing, including certain adjustments for raw material cost fluctuations. Beginning in 2006, the new LTA also replaces the take or pay provisions of the previous LTA with an annual makeup payment early in the following year in the event Boeing purchases less than its annual volume commitment in any year. Effective January 1, 2005, the Company changed its method for inventory determination from the last in, first out ("LIFO") cost method to the specific identification cost method for the approximate 40% of the Companys consolidated inventories previously accounted for under the LIFO cost method. In accordance with GAAP, the Companys consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2004, and for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, have been retroactively restated for this change in accounting principle. See Notes 2 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In November 2004, pursuant to an agreement with Basic Management, Inc. and certain of its affiliates ("BMI"), the Company sold certain property located adjacent to its Henderson, Nevada plant site to BMI, a 32% owned indirect subsidiary of Valhi, and recorded a $12.0 million deferred gain related to the cash proceeds received in November 2004. During the second quarter of 2005, the Company ceased using the property and, accordingly, recognized a $13.9 million non operating gain related to the sale of such property, which is comprised of (i) the previously reported $12.0 million cash proceeds received in November 2004, (ii) the reversal of $0.6 million previously accrued by the Company for potential environmental issues related to the property and (iii) an additional $1.2 million cash payment received from BMI in June 2005. During 2005, the Company reversed $36.9 million of the valuation allowance attributable to its U.S. deferred income tax asset and $13.2 million of the valuation allowance attributable to its U.K. deferred income tax asset. See "Results of Operations Income taxes" and Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Companys income taxes. In August 2004, the Company completed an exchange offer, pursuant to which the Company had offered to exchange all of the 4,024,820 outstanding BUCS issued by the Capital Trust for shares of the Companys Series A Preferred Stock at the exchange rate of one share of Series A Preferred Stock for each BUCS. Based upon the 3,909,103 BUCS tendered and accepted for exchange as of the close of the offer on August 31, 2004, the Company issued 3,909,103 shares of Series A Preferred Stock in exchange for such BUCS. During the third quarter of 2004, the Company recognized a $15.5 million non cash, non operating gain related to the BUCS exchange. During the third and fourth quarters of 2005, an aggregate of 926,490 shares of Series A Preferred Stock were converted into 6,176,600 shares of TIMET common stock. As of December 31, 2005, there were 2,982,613 shares outstanding of the Series A Preferred Stock. Subsequent to December 31, 2005 and through March 10, 2006, an additional 346,016 shares of Series A Preferred Stock were converted into 2,306,765 shares of TIMET common stock. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Summarized financial information. The following table summarizes certain information regarding the Companys results of operations for the past three years. Average selling prices, as reported by the Company, are a reflection not just of actual selling prices received by the Company, but also include other related factors such as currency exchange rates and customer and product mix in a given period. Consequently, changes in average selling prices from period to period will be impacted by changes occurring not just in actual prices, but by these other factors as well. The percentage change information presented below represents changes from the respective prior year. See "Results of Operations Outlook" for further discussion of the Companys business expectations for 2006. Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 ($ in thousands, except product shipment data) Net sales: Melted products $ 112,252 $ 72,092 $ 57,409 Mill products 528,555 364,248 279,563 Other products 108,970 65,488 55,132 Other (1) (6,800) Net sales $ 749,777 $ 501,828 $ 385,304 Gross margin 199,362 63,677 5,644 Gross margin percent of net sales 27% 13% 1% Melted products shipments: Volume (metric tons) 5,655 5,360 4,725 Average selling prices ($ per kilogram) $ 19.85 $ 13.45 $ 12.15 Mill products shipments: Volume (metric tons) 12,660 11,365 8,875 Average selling prices ($ per kilogram) $ 41.75 $ 32.05 $ 31.50 Percentage change in: Sales volume: Melted products +6 +13 +97 Mill products +11 +28 Average selling prices: Melted products +48 +11 16 Mill products +30 +2 Selling prices excludes changes in product mix: Melted products +35 +7 12 Mill products in U.S. dollars +27 +6 3 Mill products in billing currencies (2) +27 +2 7 (1) Represents the effect of a $6.8 million reduction to sales related to the termination of a purchase and sale agreement with Wyman Gordon. See "Results of Operations 2004 operations." (2) Excludes the effect of changes in foreign currencies. Based upon the terms of the Companys previous LTA with Boeing, the Company received an annual $28.5 million (less $3.80 per pound of titanium product sold to Boeing subcontractors in the preceding year) customer advance from Boeing in January of each year related to Boeings purchases from TIMET for that year. Effective July 1, 2005, the Company entered into a new LTA with Boeing pursuant to which, beginning in 2006, these take or pay provisions were replaced with an annual makeup payment early in the following year in the event Boeing purchases less than its annual commitment in any year. The previous LTA was structured as a take or pay agreement such that Boeing forfeited $3.80 per pound of its advance payment in the event that its orders for delivery were less than 7.5 million pounds in any given calendar year. The Company recognized income to the extent Boeings year to date orders for delivery plus TIMETs maximum quarterly volume obligations for the remainder of the year totaled less than 7.5 million pounds. This income was recognized as other operating income and was not included in sales revenue, sales volume or gross margin. Based on actual purchases of approximately 3.0 million pounds during 2005, the Company recognized $17.1 million of take or pay income for the year ended December 31, 2005. The Company recognized $22.1 million and $23.1 million of such income during 2004 and 2003, respectively. Had the Company not benefited from such provisions, the Companys results would have been as follows: Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (In thousands) Operating income (loss), as reported $ 171,075 $ 43,036 $ (5,954) Less take or pay income 17,134 22,093 23,083 Operating income (loss), excluding take or pay $ 153,941 $ 20,943 $ (29,037) 2005 operations. Melted product sales increased 56% and mill product sales increased 45% during 2005 as compared to 2004, principally as a result of higher average selling prices and increased sales volume due to greater market demand across all markets, especially commercial aerospace. Large commercial aircraft deliveries increased from 600 in 2004 to 650 in 2005, and 2006 deliveries are expected to be 840 aircraft. As previously discussed, a substantial portion of the Companys business is tied to the commercial aerospace industry, and sales of titanium generally precede aircraft deliveries by about one year. Therefore, the Companys 2005 net sales have significantly benefited from the increase in production of large commercial aircraft scheduled for delivery in 2006. Average selling prices use actual customer and product mix and foreign currency exchange rates prevailing during the respective periods. The Companys melted products are generally sold only in U.S. dollars. Melted product average selling prices during 2005, as compared to 2004, were positively affected by current market conditions and changes in customer and product mix. Mill product average selling prices during 2005, as compared to 2004, were positively affected by changes in customer and product mix and by the weakening of the U.S. dollar compared to both the British pound sterling and the euro. Gross margin (net sales less cost of sales) increased during 2005 as compared to 2004 primarily as a result of the improved average selling prices for both melted and mill products as compared to 2004, partially offset by increased raw material costs and higher energy costs. Gross margin during 2005 includes an additional $21.1 million from the sale of titanium scrap (which the Company cannot economically recycle) and other non mill products as compared to 2004. Additionally, gross margin was positively impacted by improved plant operating rates during 2005 (80%) as compared to 2004 (73%). Gross margin during 2004 was favorably impacted by a $1.6 million reduction in cost of sales related to the modification of the Companys vacation policy. On January 1, 2004, the Company modified its vacation policy for its U.S. salaried employees, whereby such employees no longer accrue their entire years vacation entitlement on January 1, but rather accrue the current years vacation entitlement over the course of the year. Gross margin during 2005 was adversely impacted by $6.0 million of additional costs as compared to 2004 related to the accrual of certain performance based employee incentive compensation payments and a $1.2 million noncash impairment charge related to the Companys abandonment of certain manufacturing equipment. Selling, general, administrative and development expenses increased 19%, from $44.9 million during 2004 to $53.6 million during 2005, principally as a result of (i) $3.7 million of increased personnel costs (including $1.4 million of additional employee incentive compensation costs) partially as a result of headcount increases during 2005, (ii) $1.2 million of additional auditing and consulting costs partially related to the Companys compliance with the Sarbanes Oxley Acts internal control requirements and (iii) increases during 2005 for legal, travel, insurance and other such costs. Equity in earnings of joint ventures increased 296%, from $1.3 million during 2004 to $5.1 million during 2005, due to an increase in the operating results of VALTIMET, the Companys minority owned welded tube joint venture. During 2005, VALTIMET benefited from both stronger demand and increased pricing in the industrial tubing market. Net other operating income (expense) decreased 12% from income of $23.0 million during 2004 to income of $20.3 million during 2005, principally due to a decrease in the amount of previously discussed take or pay income recognized by the Company during 2005. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2004 operations. Melted product sales increased 26% and mill product sales increased 30% during 2004 as compared to 2003, principally as a result of increased sales volume due to greater market demand and or share gains across all markets. More specifically, large commercial aircraft deliveries increased from 575 in 2003 to 602 in 2004 and the Companys 2004 net sales significantly benefited from the increase in production of large commercial aircraft scheduled for delivery in 2005. Melted product average selling prices during 2004, as compared to 2003, were positively affected by current market conditions and changes in customer and product mix. Mill product average selling prices during 2004, as compared to 2003, were positively affected by the weakening of the U.S. dollar compared to both the British pound sterling and the euro and negatively affected by changes in customer and product mix. Gross margin increased during 2004 as compared to 2003 primarily as a result of improved plant operating rates (from 56% during 2003 to 73% during 2004), partially offset by increased raw material costs and higher energy costs. The Companys gross margin during 2004 was also favorably impacted by the previously discussed modification of the Companys vacation policy and adversely impacted by an additional $10.5 million charge to cost of sales related to the accrual of certain employee incentive compensation payments, as compared to 2003. Comparatively, gross margin during 2003 was impacted by (i) a $1.7 million reduction in cost of sales related to a revision of the Companys estimate of probable loss associated with a previously reported tungsten inclusion matter and (ii) a $6.8 million reduction in sales related to the previously discussed termination of a purchase and sale agreement with Wyman Gordon. Selling, general, administrative and development expenses increased 23%, from $36.4 million during 2003 to $44.9 million during 2004, principally as a result of (i) a $2.8 million accrual related to certain employee incentive compensation payments expected to be made in 2005, (ii) $2.0 million of additional auditing and consulting costs relative to the Companys compliance with the Sarbanes Oxley Acts internal control requirements and (iii) $1.0 million of increased costs related to the Companys intercompany services agreement with Contran Corporation ("Contran"). Equity in earnings of joint ventures increased 183%, from $0.5 million during 2003 to $1.3 million during 2004, due to an increase in the operating results of VALTIMET. Net other operating income (expense) decreased 6% from income of $24.4 million during 2003 to income of $23.0 million during 2004, principally due to a decrease in the amount of previously discussed take or pay income recognized by the Company during 2004. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Non operating income (expense). Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (In thousands) Interest expense on bank debt $ (3,302) $ (2,649) $ (2,017) Interest expense on debt payable to the Capital Trust (661) (9,802) (14,402) $ (3,963) $ (12,451) $ (16,419) Dividends and interest income $ 2,025 $ 687 $ 383 Equity in earnings of common securities of the Capital Trust 279 424 432 Gain on BUCS exchange, net 15,465 Gain on sale of property 13,881 Foreign exchange gain (loss), net 2,288 (477) (189) Other, net (245) 101 (920) $ 18,228 $ 16,200 $ (294) Interest expense on bank debt in 2005 increased 25% compared to 2004, primarily due to higher average outstanding borrowings during 2005 compared to 2004, which the Company used primarily to support its accumulation of inventory to meet expected customer demand during 2006 as well as for the construction of the water conservation facility at the Companys Henderson, Nevada location. Interest expense on bank debt in 2004 increased 31% compared to 2003, primarily due to higher average outstanding borrowings during 2004 compared to 2003, which the Company used primarily to support higher inventory levels. The Company currently expects interest expense on bank debt in 2006 will approximate 2005 levels. Prior to 2004, annual interest expense on the Companys debt payable to the Capital Trust approximated $13.7 million, exclusive of any accrued interest on deferred interest payments. On September 1, 2004, the Company exchanged 97.1% of its outstanding BUCS for its Series A Preferred Stock, resulting in a $15.5 million non cash, non operating gain. On September 1, 2005, the Company and the Capital Trust agreed to the cancellation of 120,907 of the Capital Trusts common securities and a corresponding cancellation of $6.0 million of the Companys Subordinated Debentures (see "Liquidity and Capital Resources Other" and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Interest expense related to the remaining debt payable to the Capital Trust ($5.9 million at December 31, 2005) continues to accrue at 6.625% per year. During 2002, the Company exercised its right to defer interest payments on the Subordinated Debentures, effective for the December 1, 2002 scheduled interest payment. Interest continued to accrue at the 6.625% coupon rate on the principal and unpaid interest until the Companys Board of Directors approved resumption of scheduled quarterly interest payments on the Subordinated Debentures beginning with the payment on June 1, 2004. The Companys Board also approved payment of all previously deferred interest on the Subordinated Debentures. On April 15, 2004, the Company paid the deferred interest in the amount of $21.7 million, $21.0 million of which related to the BUCS. Dividends and interest income during 2005 and 2004 consisted of dividends received on the Companys investments in marketable securities and interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents. Dividends and interest income during 2003 consisted solely of interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents. During the second quarter of 2005, the Company recognized a $13.9 million non operating gain related to the sale of property. See further discussion in "Results of Operations Overview." Income taxes. The Company operates in several tax jurisdictions and is subject to varying income tax rates. As a result, the geographic mix of pretax income or loss can impact the Companys overall effective tax rate. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Companys income tax rate varied from the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to changes in the deferred income tax valuation allowance related to the Companys tax attributes with respect to the "more likely than not" recognition criteria during those periods. The Company periodically reviews its deferred income tax assets to determine if future realization is more likely than not. During the first quarter of 2005, based on the Companys recent history of U.S. income, its near term outlook and the effect of its change in method of inventory determination from the LIFO cost method to the specific identification cost method for U.S. federal income tax purposes (see Note 2), the Company changed its estimate of its ability to utilize the tax benefits of its U.S. net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards, alternative minimum tax ("AMT") credit carryforwards and other net deductible temporary differences (other than the majority of the Companys capital loss carryforwards). Consequently, the Company determined that its net deferred income tax asset related to such U.S. tax attributes and other net deductible temporary differences now meet the "more likely than not" recognition criteria. Accordingly, the Company reversed $36.9 million of the valuation allowance attributable to such U.S. deferred income tax asset during 2005 ($8.6 million in the fourth quarter). During the first quarter of 2005, based on the Companys recent history of U.K. income, its near term outlook and its historic U.K. profitability, the Company also changed its estimate of its ability to utilize its net deductible temporary differences and other tax attributes related to the U.K., primarily comprised of (i) the future benefits associated with the reversal of its U.K. minimum pension liability deferred income tax asset and (ii) the benefits of its U.K. NOL carryforward. Consequently, the Company determined that its net deferred income tax asset in the U.K. now meets the "more likely than not" recognition criteria. Accordingly, the Company reversed $13.2 million of the valuation allowance attributable to such deferred income tax asset during 2005 ($0.1 million in the fourth quarter). During 2004, due to a change in estimate of the Companys ability to utilize the benefits of its NOL carryforwards in Germany, the Company determined that its deferred income tax asset in Germany met the "more likely than not" recognition criteria. Accordingly, the Company reversed the $0.7 million valuation allowance attributable to such deferred income tax asset. In addition, the Companys deferred income tax asset valuation allowance related to income from continuing operations decreased by $16.4 million during 2004, primarily due to the utilization of the U.S. and U.K. NOL carryforwards, the benefit of which had previously not met the "more likely than not" recognition criteria. During the second quarter of 2005 and the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company recognized a deferred income tax benefit related to a $0.5 million and $4.2 million, respectively, decrease in the Companys U.S. deferred income tax asset valuation allowance attributable to the Companys recognition, for U.S. income tax purposes only, of a capital gain on the fourth quarter sale of certain property located at the Companys Henderson, Nevada facility (see Note 6). The Company recognized a corresponding deferred income tax expense in 2005, when the gain was recognized under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The Company utilized a portion of its U.S. capital loss carryforward to offset the income taxes generated from the sale of such property. In October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 was enacted into law. The new law provides for a special 85% deduction for certain dividends received from controlled foreign corporations in 2005. In the second quarter of 2005, the Company completed its evaluation of this new provision and determined that it would benefit from the special dividend received deduction, but the Company did not distribute dividends under the Act until the third quarter of 2005. In the third quarter of 2005, the Company executed a reinvestment plan and distributed $19 million of earnings from its European subsidiaries, which qualified for the special dividend received deduction and, in accordance with the requirements of FASB Staff Position No. 109 2, recognized the $1.0 million income tax related to such repatriation. Additionally, in the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company determined that an additional $10 million of repatriations would qualify for the special dividend received deduction, and the Company recognized an additional $0.5 million income tax related to the fourth quarter repatriation. The Company has not provided for U.S. deferred income taxes or foreign withholding taxes on basis differences in its non U.S. consolidated subsidiaries that result primarily from undistributed earnings the Company intends to reinvest indefinitely. The new law also provides for a special deduction from U.S. taxable income equal to a specified percentage of a U.S. companys qualified income from domestic manufacturing activities (as defined). The Company believes that the majority of its operations meet the definition of qualified domestic manufacturing activities. However, the Company did not derive any benefit from the special manufacturing deduction in 2005, because the Companys existing U.S. NOL carryforwards fully offset its 2005 U.S. taxable income. In June 2005, the State of Ohio enacted a new tax law, which phases out Ohios existing income tax system over the next five years and replaces it with a tax based on gross receipts. In the second quarter of 2005, as a result of this phase out, the Company reduced its deferred income tax asset related primarily to its Ohio NOL carryforwards by $0.6 million. In the fourth quarter of 2005, due primarily to updated income forecasts and revised timing information on the recognition of certain temporary differences, the Company increased its deferred income tax asset related primarily to its Ohio NOL carryforwards by $0.3 million. The net impact of these adjustments for 2005 was a decrease of $0.3 million. The provision for income taxes in 2005 includes $4.4 million of deferred income taxes resulting from the elimination of the Companys minimum pension liability equity adjustment component of accumulated other comprehensive income related to the Companys U.S. defined benefit pension plan. In accordance with GAAP, the Company did not recognize a deferred income tax benefit related to a portion of the minimum pension equity adjustment previously recognized, as the Company had also recognized a deferred income tax asset valuation allowance related to its U.S. net operating loss carryforward and other U.S. net deductible temporary differences during a portion of the periods in which the minimum pension equity adjustment had previously been recognized. A portion of such valuation allowance recognized ($4.4 million) was recognized through the pension liability component of other comprehensive income. As discussed, during 2005 the Company concluded recognition of such deferred income tax asset valuation allowance was no longer required, and the reversal of all of such valuation allowance was recognized through the provision for income taxes included in the determination of net income, including the $4.4 million portion of the valuation allowance which was previously recognized through other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2005, the Company was no longer required to recognize a minimum pension liability related to its U.S. plan, and the Company reversed the minimum pension liability previously recognized in other comprehensive income. After the reversal of such minimum pension liability, which was recognized on a net of tax basis, the $4.4 million amount remained in accumulated other comprehensive income related to the U.S. minimum pension liability, which is required to be recognized in the provision for income taxes during the period in which the minimum pension liability is no longer required to be recognized. See also Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Dividends on Series A Preferred Stock. Shares of the Companys Series A Preferred Stock are convertible, at any time, at the option of the holder thereof, into six and two thirds shares of the Companys common stock, subject to adjustment in certain events. The Series A Preferred Stock is not mandatorily redeemable, but is redeemable at the option of the Company at any time after September 1, 2007. When, as and if declared by the Companys board of directors, holders of the Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to receive cumulative cash dividends at the rate of 6.75% of the $50 per share liquidation preference per annum per share (equivalent to $3.375 per annum per share). The Company paid dividends of $12.5 million during 2005 and $3.3 million during 2004 to holders of the Series A Preferred Stock. Subsequent to December 31, 2005, the Companys board of directors declared a dividend of $0.84375 per share, payable on March 15, 2006 to holders of record of Series A Preferred Stock as of the close of trading on March 1, 2006. Based on the 2,636,597 shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding as of March 10, 2006, TIMET would expect to pay approximately $8.9 million of dividends on these shares during 2006. Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle. On January 1, 2003, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, and recognized (i) an asset retirement cost capitalized as an increase to the carrying value of its property, plant and equipment of approximately $0.2 million, (ii) accumulated depreciation on such capitalized cost of approximately $0.1 million and (iii) a liability for the asset retirement obligation of approximately $0.3 million. The asset retirement obligation recognized relates primarily to landfill closure and leasehold restoration costs. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. European operations. The Company has substantial operations located in Europe, principally in the United Kingdom, France and Italy. Approximately 39% of the Companys sales revenue originated in Europe in 2005, of which approximately 58% was denominated in the British pound sterling or the euro. Certain purchases of raw materials, principally titanium sponge and alloys, for the Companys European operations are denominated in U.S. dollars, while labor and other production costs are primarily denominated in local currencies. The functional currencies of the Companys European subsidiaries are those of their respective countries, and the European subsidiaries are subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may impact reported earnings and may affect the comparability of period to period operating results. Borrowings of the Companys European operations may be in U.S. dollars or in functional currencies. The Companys export sales from the U.S. are denominated in U.S. dollars and as such are not subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations. The Company does not use currency contracts to hedge its currency exposures. Net currency transaction gains or losses included in results of operations were a $2.3 million gain in 2005 and losses of $0.5 million in 2004 and $0.2 million in 2003. At December 31, 2005, consolidated assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currencies were approximately $51.2 million and $46.4 million, respectively, consisting primarily of U.S. dollar cash, accounts receivable and accounts payable. VALTIMET has entered into certain derivative financial instruments that qualify as cash flow hedges under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). The Companys pro rata share of VALTIMETs unrealized net gains on such derivative financial instruments is included as a component of other comprehensive income. Related party transactions. The Company is a party to certain transactions with related parties. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Outlook. The Outlook section contains a number of forward looking statements, all of which are based on current expectations and exclude the effect of potential future charges related to restructurings, asset impairments, valuation allowances, changes in accounting principles and similar items, unless otherwise noted. Undue reliance should not be placed on these statements, as more fully discussed in the "Forward Looking Information" statement of this Annual Report. Actual results may differ materially. See also Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements regarding commitments, contingencies, legal matters, environmental matters and other matters, including new accounting principles, which could materially affect the Companys future business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. In 2005, TIMET achieved all time record levels for net sales, operating income and net income. These levels were largely driven by increased demand in the commercial aerospace sector that, when coupled with the relatively short supply of raw materials, resulted in average selling prices for both melted and mill products reaching their highest historical levels at $19.85 and $41.75 per kilogram, respectively. The Company expects that the current up cycle will continue beyond 2006. The Company continues to see the availability of certain raw materials tighten, and, consequently, the prices for such raw materials increase. The Company currently expects that the shortage in certain raw materials is likely to continue throughout 2006, which could limit the Companys ability to produce enough titanium products to fully meet customer demand. In addition, TIMET has certain long term customer agreements that will somewhat limit the Companys ability to pass on all of its increased raw material costs. However, the Company expects that the impact of higher average selling prices for melted and mill products in 2006 will more than offset such increased raw materials costs. As compared to 2005, the Company currently expects its 2006 net sales revenue to increase by 35% to 50% to between $1.0 billion and $1.1 billion. Mill product sales volume, which was 12,660 metric tons in 2005, is expected to range from 14,500 and 15,000 metric tons in 2006, an increase of 15% to 18%. Melted product sales volume, which was 5,655 metric tons in 2005, is expected to remain relatively unchanged in 2006. Melted product average selling prices are expected to increase by 75% to 80% and mill product average selling prices are expected increase by 25% to 30%, as compared to 2005. The Companys cost of sales is affected by a number of factors including customer and product mix, material yields, plant operating rates, raw material costs, labor costs and energy costs. Raw material costs, which include sponge, scrap and alloys, represent the largest portion of the Companys manufacturing cost structure, and, as previously discussed, continued cost increases are expected during 2006. Scrap and certain alloy prices have continued their upward rise, and increased energy costs also continue to have a negative impact on gross margin. The Company currently expects production volumes to continue to increase in 2006, with overall capacity utilization expected to approximate 88% in 2006 (as compared to 80% in 2005). However, practical capacity utilization measures can vary significantly based on product mix. Selling, general, administrative and development expenses are expected to increase slightly but decrease as a percentage of sales. Under the terms of the new Boeing LTA, as previously discussed, the Company does not currently expect Boeing to incur a makeup payment for 2006 as Boeing is expected to purchase at least the minimum specified volumes from the Company. The Company expects its 2006 operating income to increase 50% to 65% over 2005, to between $257 million and $282 million. Capital expenditures during 2006 are expected to range from $90 million to $100 million. The increased spending over 2005 primarily reflects $23 million related to the expansion of the sponge plant in Henderson, Nevada and additional capacity improvements as the Company continues to respond to the increased demand by its customers. Depreciation and amortization should approximate $36 million in 2006. Non GAAP financial measures. In an effort to provide investors with information in addition to the Companys results as determined GAAP, the Company has provided the following non GAAP financial disclosures that it believes may provide useful information to investors: o The Company discloses percentage changes in its mill and melted product selling prices in U.S. dollars, which have been adjusted to exclude the effects of changes in product mix. The Company believes such disclosure provides useful information to investors by allowing them to analyze such changes without the impact of changes in product mix, thereby facilitating period to period comparisons of the relative changes in average selling prices. Depending on the composition of changes in product mix, the percentage change in selling prices excluding the effect of changes in product mix can be higher or lower than such percentage change would be using the actual product mix prevailing during the respective periods; o In addition to disclosing percentage changes in its mill product selling prices adjusted to exclude the effects of changes in product mix, the Company also discloses such percentage changes in billing currencies, which also excludes the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company believes such disclosure provides useful information to investors by allowing them to analyze such changes without the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period to period comparisons of the relative changes in average selling prices in the various actual billing currencies. Generally, when the U.S. dollar strengthens (weakens) against other currencies, the percentage change in selling prices in billing currencies will be higher (lower) than such percentage changes would be using actual exchange rates prevailing during the respective periods; and o The Company has disclosed operating income excluding the impact of the Boeing take or pay income. The Company believes this provides investors with useful information to better analyze the Companys business and possible future earnings. Effective July 1, 2005, the Company entered into a new LTA with Boeing, replacing the take or pay provisions with an annual makeup payment early in the following year in the event Boeing purchases less than its annual volume commitment in any year. See "Summarized Financial Information" for additional information regarding the Boeing LTA. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The Companys consolidated cash flows for each of the past three years are presented below. The following should be read in conjunction with the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto. Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (In thousands) Cash provided (used) by: Operating activities $ 72,896 $ (22,433) $ 65,821 Investing activities (61,486) (44,528) (14,534) Financing activities (28) 38,742 (22,068) Net cash provided (used) by operating, investing and financing activities $ 11,382 $ (28,219) $ 29,219 Operating activities. The titanium industry historically has derived a substantial portion of its business from the aerospace industry. The aerospace industry is cyclical, and changes in economic conditions within the aerospace industry significantly impact the Companys earnings and operating cash flows. Cash flow from operations has been a primary source of the Companys liquidity. Changes in titanium pricing, production volume and customer demand, among other things, could significantly affect the Companys liquidity. Certain items included in the determination of net loss have an impact on cash flows from operating activities, but the impact of such items on cash may differ from their impact on net loss. For example, pension expense and postretirement healthcare and life insurance ("OPEB") expense will generally differ from the outflows of cash for payment of such benefits. In addition, relative changes in assets and liabilities generally result from the timing of production, sales and purchases. Such relative changes can significantly impact the comparability of cash flow from operations from period to period, as the income statement impact of such items may occur in a different period than that in which the underlying cash transaction occurs. For example, raw materials may be purchased in one period, but the cash payment for such raw materials may occur in a subsequent period. Similarly, inventory may be sold in one period, but the cash collection of the receivable may occur in a subsequent period. The Companys net income increased from $47.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 to $155.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Accounts receivable increased during 2005 primarily due to increased sales, as fourth quarter 2005 net sales, the primary source of the year end accounts receivable balance, increased 61% over the year ago period. Similarly, accounts receivable increased during 2004 primarily due to a 36% increase in fourth quarter 2004 net sales over the fourth quarter of 2003. Accounts receivable decreased during 2003 primarily due to improved collection efforts with the Companys customers, partially offset by the weakening of the U.S. dollar compared to the British pound sterling and the euro. Inventories increased during each of 2005 and 2004 as a result of increased capacity utilization and related inventory build in order to meet expected customer demand during the respective following year, as well as the effects of increased raw material costs. Inventories decreased during 2003 primarily due to the Companys concentrated focus on inventory reduction during 2003. Changes in accounts payable and accrued liabilities reflect, among other things, the timing of payments to suppliers of titanium sponge, titanium scrap and other raw material purchases. Accrued liabilities increased during 2005 primarily due to a $7.5 million increase in the Companys accrual for employee profit sharing payments to be made in 2006. Accrued liabilities increased during 2004 primarily due to (i) a $12.0 million net increase in the Companys accrual for incentive compensation for potential employee profit sharing payments to be made in 2005 and (ii) a $1.1 million increase to the Companys accrual for costs expected to be incurred for environmental remediation at the Companys Henderson, Nevada facility. These increases were partially offset by (i) payment of the $2.8 million final installment related to termination of the prior Wyman Gordon agreement, (ii) a $1.9 million reduction of the Companys vacation accrual related to the Companys modification of its vacation policy for its U.S salaried employees and (iii) a $3.5 million reclassification of the Companys U.S. defined benefit pension liability from current to noncurrent, as the Companys short term cash contribution requirements decreased significantly. Pursuant to the Companys previous agreement with Boeing, Boeing advanced TIMET $28.5 million annually less $3.80 per pound of titanium product purchased by Boeing subcontractors during the preceding year. The Company received a $27.9 million advance for 2005 in January 2005, a $27.9 million advance for 2004 in January 2004 and a $27.7 million advance for 2003 in January 2003. Effective July 1, 2005, the Company entered into a new Boeing LTA, which replaced the previous LTAs take or pay provisions with an annual makeup payment early in the following year in the event Boeing purchases less than its annual volume commitment in any year. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. See "Results of Operations Income taxes" for discussion of the Companys income taxes. In October 2002, the Company exercised its right to defer future interest payments on its Subordinated Debentures held by the Capital Trust, effective beginning with the Companys December 1, 2002 scheduled interest payment, although interest continued to accrue at the coupon rate on the principal and unpaid interest. On April 15, 2004, the Company paid all previously deferred and accrued interest in the amount of $21.7 million ($21.0 million of which related to the BUCS) and on June 1, 2004, the Company resumed its quarterly interest payments on the Subordinated Debentures. Changes in accrued interest on debt payable to the Capital Trust reflect this activity. Investing activities. During 2005 and 2004, the Company purchased 146,900 and 2,549,520 shares of CompX International, Inc. ("CompX") Class A common stock, respectively, for $2.2 million and $32.0 million, respectively. During 2004, the Company purchased 222,100 shares of NL Industries, Inc. ("NL") common stock for $2.5 million. See further discussion in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Companys capital expenditures were $61.1 million in 2005, $23.6 million in 2004 and $12.5 million in 2003, principally for replacement and expansion of machinery and equipment and for capacity maintenance. The 2005 amount includes $24.2 million related to the construction of the water conservation facility and $11.8 million related to the Companys sponge plant expansion in Henderson, Nevada. The 2004 amount includes $3.9 million related to construction of the water conservation facility. During the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company deposited funds into certificates of deposit and other interest bearing accounts as collateral for certain Company obligations in lieu of entering into letters of credit. These deposits, which are restricted as to the Companys use, provide the Company with interest income as opposed to interest expense incurred through the use of letters of credit. During each of 2005 and 2004, certain of these deposits were liquidated in favor of entering into letters of credit because the Company was primarily a net borrower during these periods and the use of this cash reduced overall borrowing costs. Financing activities. Cash used during 2005 was primarily related to $12.5 million of dividends paid on the Series A Preferred Stock and $2.2 million of dividends paid to CEZUS, partially offset by the Companys net borrowings of $8.3 million and $6.4 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock upon exercise of options. Cash provided during 2004 related primarily to the Companys net borrowings of $43.2 million, which the Company primarily used to support the accumulation of inventory in order to meet expected customer demand for 2005 and also support capital expenditures and the acquisition of marketable securities. In addition, the Company paid dividends on its Series A Preferred Stock of $3.3 million and TIMET Savoie made a $0.7 million dividend payment to CEZUS during 2004. Cash used during 2003 related primarily to the Companys $19.3 million of net repayments on its outstanding borrowings upon the Companys receipt of a $27.7 million customer advance in January 2003. Additionally, TIMET Savoie made a $1.9 million dividend payment to CEZUS during 2003. See further discussion below in "Liquidity and Capital Resources Borrowing arrangements." Borrowing arrangements. As of December 31, 2005, the Companys outstanding borrowings under its U.S. credit agreement were $40.3 million and excess availability was approximately $79 million. On February 17, 2006, the Company entered into a new $175 million long term credit agreement (the "New U.S. Facility"), replacing its previous U.S credit agreement, which was terminated on that date. The New U.S. Facility is secured primarily by the Companys U.S. accounts receivable, inventory, personal property, intangible assets, a pledge of 65% of TIMET UKs common stock and a negative pledge on U.S. fixed assets, and matures in February 2011. Borrowings under the New U.S. Facility accrue interest at the U.S. prime rate or varying LIBOR based rates based on a quarterly ratio of outstanding debt to EBITDA as defined by the agreement. The New U.S. Facility also provides for the issuance of up to $10 million of letters of credit. The New U.S. Facility contains certain restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit or restrict the ability of the Company to incur debt, incur liens, make investments, make capital expenditures or pay dividends. The New U.S. Facility also requires compliance with certain financial covenants, including a minimum tangible net worth covenant, a fixed charge coverage ratio and a leverage ratio, and contains other covenants customary in lending transactions of this type including cross default provisions with respect to other debt and obligations of the Company. Borrowings under the New U.S. Facility are limited to the lesser of $175 million or a formula determined amount based upon U.S. accounts receivable, inventory and fixed assets (subject to pledging fixed assets). Such formula determined amount only applies if borrowings exceed 60% of the commitment amount or the leverage ratio exceeds a certain limitation. At February 17, 2006, approximately $21 million was outstanding under the New U.S. Facility and $4.4 million of letters of credit were issued and outstanding. The Companys previous U.S. credit agreement contained similar covenant compliance requirements, and the Company was in compliance with all such covenants for all periods during the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Under the previous U.S. credit agreement, the Company was required to maintain a lock box arrangement whereby daily net cash receipts were used to reduce outstanding borrowings. Accordingly, any outstanding balances under the previous U.S. credit agreement were classified as a current liability, regardless of the maturity date of the agreement. As a result of the Companys entrance into the New U.S. Facility, which does not contain a similar requirement regarding the application of daily net cash receipts, borrowings under the Companys previous U.S. credit agreement have been re classified to long term on the Companys balance sheet as of December 31, 2005. Under the Companys previous U.S. credit agreement, interest accrued at rates based on LIBOR plus 2% and bank prime rate plus 0.5%. The weighted average interest rate on borrowings outstanding was 6.4% as of December 31, 2005 and 4.3% as of December 31, 2004. Borrowings were collateralized by substantially all of the Companys U.S. assets. During the second quarter of 2005, the Companys subsidiary, TIMET UK, terminated its previous credit facility (the "U.K. Facilities") and entered into a new working capital credit facility (the "New U.K. Facility") that expires on April 30, 2008. Under the New U.K. facility, TIMET UK may borrow up to (pound)22.5 million, subject to a formula determined borrowing base derived from the value of accounts receivable, inventory and property, plant and equipment. Borrowings under the New U.K. facility can be in various currencies, including U.S. dollars, British pounds sterling and euros and are collateralized by substantially all of TIMET UKs assets. Interest on outstanding borrowings generally accrues at rates that vary from 1.125% to 1.375% above the lenders published base rate. The New U.K. facility also contains financial ratios and covenants customary in lending transactions of this type, including a minimum net worth covenant. TIMET UK was in compliance with all covenants for all periods during the year ended December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had outstanding borrowings under the New U.K. Facility of $11.1 million, and excess availability was approximately $28 million. The weighted average interest rate on borrowings outstanding under the New U.K. facility was 5.6% as of December 31, 2005. The U.K. Facilities included revolving and term loan facilities and an overdraft facility and required the maintenance of certain financial ratios and amounts, including a minimum net worth covenant and other covenants customary in lending transactions of this type. TIMET UK was in compliance with all covenants for all periods during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the second quarter of 2003, TIMET UK received an interest bearing intercompany loan from a U.S. subsidiary of the Company enabling TIMET UK to reduce its long term borrowings under the U.K. Facilities to zero. This loan was repaid in full during the third quarter of 2004. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had no borrowings under the U.K. Facilities. The Company also has overdraft and other credit facilities at certain of its other European subsidiaries that aggregate the equivalent of $19 million at December 31, 2005. These facilities accrue interest at various rates and are payable on demand. At December 31, 2005, approximately $2 million of letters of credit had been issued under these facilities. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, there were no outstanding borrowings under these other facilities, and unused borrowing availability at December 31, 2005 was approximately $17 million. No dividends were paid by TIMET on its common stock during 2005, 2004 or 2003. The Company paid dividends on its Series A Preferred Stock in the amount of $12.5 million in 2005 and $3.3 million in 2004. Subsequent to December 31, 2005, the Companys board of directors declared a dividend of $0.84375 per share, payable on March 15, 2006 to holders of record of Series A Preferred Stock as of the close of trading on March 1, 2006. Contractual commitments. As more fully described in Notes 11, 12, 18 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company was a party to various debt, lease and other agreements at December 31, 2005 that contractually commits the Company to pay certain amounts in the future. The following table summarizes such contractual commitments that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms, including pricing, quantity and date of payment: Payment Due Date 2007/ 2009/ 2011 & Contractual Commitment 2006 2008 2010 After Total (In thousands) Capital leases (1) $ 28 $ 56 $ 56 $ 50 $ 190 Operating leases 3,103 6,003 4,479 18,512 32,097 Long term debt (2) 11,104 40,255 51,359 Debt payable to Capital Trust (and accrued interest thereon at December 31, 2005) 33 5,852 5,885 Purchase obligations: Raw materials (3) 108,643 36,715 2,800 2,800 150,958 Other (4) 30,048 18,515 12,990 24,204 85,757 Other contractual obligations (5) 14,026 14,026 $ 155,881 $ 72,393 $ 20,325 $ 91,673 $ 340,272 (1) Includes interest payments due under the capital lease agreements. (2) Subsequent to December 31, 2005, the Company entered into a new U.S. credit agreement, which matures in 2011. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (3) These obligations generally relate to the purchase of titanium sponge pursuant to an LTA that expires on December 31, 2007 (as described in Item 1: Business) and various other open orders or commitments for purchase of raw materials. The LTA does not contain automatic renewal provisions; however, the Company may enter into a new agreement to replace the current LTA in the future. (4) These obligations generally relate to contractual operating fees paid to CEZUS for use of a portion of its Ugine, France plant pursuant to an agreement expiring in 2006 (as described in Item 2: Properties), energy purchase obligations with BMI which expire in 2010 (as described in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), an obligation to Contran under an intercorporate services agreement ("ISA") for 2006 (as described in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), a capital contribution obligation to BAOTIMET and various other open orders for purchase of energy, utilities and property and equipment. These obligations are generally based on an average price and an assumed constant mix of products purchased, as appropriate. The Company expects to enter into an ISA annually with Contran subsequent to 2006. All open orders are for delivery in 2006. (5) These other obligations are recorded on the Companys balance sheet as of December 31, 2005 and consist of current income taxes payable, a contract for removal of environmental waste and obligations related to workers compensation bonds discussed in "Liquidity and Capital Resources Off balance sheet arrangements." The Company has excluded any potential commitment for funding of retirement and postretirement benefit plans from this table. However, such potential future contributions are discussed below, as appropriate, in "Liquidity and Capital Resources Defined benefit pension plans" and "Liquidity and Capital Resources Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions." Off balance sheet arrangements. As more fully discussed in "Results of Operations Non operating income (expense)," the Company is the primary obligor on two $1.5 million workers compensation bonds issued on behalf of Freedom Forge. The Company has fully expensed the obligation under the first of these bonds. Based upon current claims analysis, the Company has expensed only $0.2 million on the second bond and although it is potentially obligated for the remaining $1.3 million, the Company does not currently expect any additional claims to be filed on this second bond. Additionally, the Company has entered into letters of credit to collateralize (i) potential workers compensation claims in Ohio and Nevada and (ii) future usage of electricity in Nevada. The Companys excess availability under its U.S. credit agreement has been reduced by $2.3 million and $2.1 million, respectively, related to such letters of credit. The Company has entered into letters of credit to collateralize (i) potential workers compensation claims in Ohio and Nevada and (i) future usage of electricity in Nevada. The Companys excess availability under its U.S. credit agreement has been reduced by $2.3 million and $2.1 million, respectively, related to such letters of credit. Additionally, the Company has entered into a letter of credit to collateralize various business obligations, wich has reduced the Companys excess availability under its other European credit facilities by approximately $2 million. Defined benefit pension plans. As of December 31, 2005, the Company maintains three defined benefit pension plans one each in the U.S., the U.K. and France. Prior to December 31, 2003, the U.S. maintained two plans, which were merged as of that date. The majority of the discussion below relates to the U.S. and U.K. plans, as the French plan is not material to the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets, Statements of Operations or Statements of Cash Flows. The Company recorded consolidated pension expense of $7.9 million in 2005, $7.7 million in 2004 and $8.9 million in 2003. Pension expense for these periods, the majority of which related to the U.K. plan, was calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, most significant of which are the discount rate and the expected long term rate of return. The discount rate the Company utilizes for determining pension expense and pension obligations is based on a review of long term bonds (10 to 15 year maturities) that receive one of the two highest ratings given by recognized rating agencies (generally Merrill Lynch, Moodys, Solomon Smith Barney and UBS Warburg) as well as composite indices provided by the Companys actuaries. Changes in the Companys discount rate over the past three years reflect the decline in such bond rates during that period. The Company establishes a rate that is used to determine obligations as of the year end date and expense for the subsequent year. The Company used the following discount rate assumptions for its pension plans: Discount rates used for: Obligation at Obligation at Obligation at December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 and expense in 2006 and expense in 2005 and expense in 2004 U.S. Plan 5.50% 5.65% 6.00% U.K. Plan 4.75% 5.30% 5.50% In developing the Companys expected long term rate of return assumptions, the Company evaluates historical market rates of return and input from its actuaries, including a review of asset class return expectations as well as long term inflation assumptions. Projected returns are based on broad equity (large cap, small cap and international) and bond (corporate and government) indices as well as anticipation that the plans active investment managers will generate premiums above the standard market projections. The Company used the following long term rate of return assumptions for its pension plans: Long term rates of return used for: Obligation at Obligation at Obligation at December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 and expense in 2006 and expense in 2005 and expense in 2004 U.S. Plan 10.00% 10.00% 10.00% U.K. Plan 6.70% 7.10% 7.10% Lowering the expected long term rate of return on the Companys U.S. plans assets by 0.5% (from 10.00% to 9.50%) would have increased 2005 pension expense by approximately $0.3 million, and lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 5.65% to 5.40%) would have increased the Companys U.S. plans 2005 pension expense by approximately $0.1 million. Lowering the expected long term rate of return on the Companys U.K. plans assets by 0.5% (from 7.10% to 6.60%) would have increased 2005 pension expense by approximately $0.6 million, and lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 5.30% to 5.05%) would have increased the Companys U.K. plans 2005 pension expense by approximately $0.7 million. During the second quarter of 2003, the Company transferred all of its U.S. plans assets into the Combined Master Retirement Trust ("CMRT"). The CMRT is a collective investment trust established by Valhi to permit the collective investment by certain master trusts which fund certain employee benefits plans sponsored by Valhi and certain related companies. A sub account of the CMRT held 10.8% of TIMET common stock at December 31, 2005; however, the Companys plan assets are invested only in the portion of the CMRT that does not hold TIMET common stock. At December 31, 2005, Valhi and related entities or persons (excluding the CMRT) held approximately 41.8% of TIMETs outstanding common stock and approximately 54.1% of the Companys Series A Preferred Stock. Harold C. Simmons, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Valhi and TIMET, is the sole trustee of the CMRT and a member of the trust investment committee for the CMRT. The CMRTs long term investment objective is to provide a rate of return exceeding a composite of broad market equity and fixed income indices (including the S&P 500 and certain Russell indices) utilizing both third party investment managers as well as investments directed by Mr. Simmons. During the 18 year history of the CMRT through December 31, 2005, the average annual rate of return earned by the CMRT, as calculated based on the average percentage change in the CMRTs net asset value per CMRT unit for each applicable year, has been 14% (with a 36% return for 2005). At December 31, 2005, the CMRTs asset mix (based on an aggregate asset value of $691 million) was 86% U.S. equity securities, 7% foreign equity securities, 3% debt securities and 4% cash and other. The CMRT`s trustee and investment committee actively manage the investments within the CMRT. Such parties have in the past, and may again in the future, periodically change the relative asset mix based upon, among other things, advice they receive from third party advisors and their expectation as to what asset mix will generate the greatest overall return. Based on the above, the Company set its long term rate of return assumption at 10.0% for December 31, 2005 and 2004 pension obligations and 2006, 2005 and 2004 pension expense for its U.S. plan. Because of market fluctuations and prior funding strategies, actual asset allocation as of December 31, 2005 was 84.6% equity securities and 15.4% fixed income securities for the U.K. plan. During 2003, the trustees for the U.K. plan selected a new investment advisor (effective in 2004) for the U.K. plan and modified its asset allocation goals. The Companys future expected long term rate of return on plan assets for its U.K. plan is based on an asset allocation assumption of 60% equity securities and 40% fixed income securities and all current contributions to the plan are invested wholly in fixed income securities in order to gradually effect the shift. Based on various factors, including improved economic and market conditions, gains on the plan assets during 2003 and projected asset mix, the Company increased its assumed long term rate of return for December 31, 2003 pension obligations and for 2004 pension expense to 7.10% for its U.K. plan and maintained the assumption for December 31, 2004 pension obligations and for 2005 pension expense. Because all contributions continue to be put into fixed income securities, the Company expects the plans asset mix to continue moving closer to the projected mix, which reflects a higher percentage of fixed income securities. As such, the Company decreased its assumed long term rate of return for December 31, 2005 pension obligations and for 2006 pension expense to 6.70% for its U.K. plan. Although the expected rate of return is a long term measure, the Company will continue to evaluate its expected rate of return, at least annually, and will adjust it as considered necessary. The expected return on the fair value of the plan assets, determined based on the expected long term rate of return, is a component of pension expense. This methodology further recognizes actual investment gains or losses (i.e., the difference between the expected and actual returns based on the market value of assets) in pension expense through amortization in future periods based upon the expected average remaining service life of the plan participants. Unrealized gains or losses may impact future periods to the extent the accumulated gains or losses are outside the "corridor" as defined by SFAS No. 87. Based on an expected rate of return on plan assets of 10.00%, a discount rate of 5.50% and various other assumptions, the Company estimates that its U.S. plan will have pension income of approximately $2.8 million in 2006, approximately $3.2 million in 2007 and approximately $3.7 million in 2008. A 0.25% increase (decrease) in the discount rate would increase (decrease) projected pension income by approximately $0.1 million in each of 2006, 2007 and 2008. A 0.5% increase (decrease) in the long term rate of return would increase (decrease) projected pension income by approximately $0.4 million in 2006 and $0.5 million in each of 2007 and 2008. Based on an expected rate of return on plan assets of 6.70%, a discount rate of 4.75% and various other assumptions (including an exchange rate of $1.75/(pound)1.00), the Company estimates that pension expense for its U.K. plan will approximate $6.4 million in 2006, $6.0 million in 2007 and $5.3 million in 2008. A 0.25% increase (decrease) in the discount rate would decrease (increase) projected pension expense by approximately $0.8 million in 2006 and 2007 and by $0.7 million in 2008. A 0.5% increase (decrease) in the long term rate of return would decrease (increase) projected pension expense by approximately $0.7 million in 2006, $0.8 million in 2007 and $1.0 million in 2008. Actual future pension expense will depend on actual future investment performance, changes in future discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in the Companys pension plans. The Company made cash contributions of approximately $1.8 million in 2004 and $4.4 million in 2003 to the U.S. plans and cash contributions of approximately $9.1 million in 2005, $8.2 million in 2004 and $7.3 million in 2003 to the U.K. plan. Based upon the current funded status of the plans and the actuarial assumptions being used for 2006, the Company believes that it will be required to make the following cash contributions (exclusive of any required employee contributions) over the next five years: Projected cash contributions U.S. Plan U.K.Plan Total (In millions, and using an exchange rate of $1.75/(pound)1.00 for U.K. plan ) Year ending December 31, 2006 $ 0.4 $ 8.1 $ 8.5 2007 $ 0.1 $ 8.3 $ 8.4 2008 $ $ 8.6 $ 8.6 2009 $ $ 8.9 $ 8.9 2010 $ $ 9.2 $ 9.2 The U.S. plan(s) paid benefits of approximately $5.6 million in 2005, $5.7 million in 2004 and $5.6 million in 2003, and the U.K. plan paid benefits of approximately $4.3 million in 2005, $4.7 million in 2004 and $4.3 million in 2003. Based upon current projections, the Company believes the plans will be required to pay the following benefits over the next ten years: Projected retirement benefits U.S. Plan U.K.Plan Total (In millions, and using an exchange rate of $1.75/(pound)1.00 for U.K. plan ) Year ending December 31, 2006 $ 5.9 $ 4.3 $ 10.2 2007 $ 5.9 $ 4.4 $ 10.3 2008 $ 5.9 $ 4.5 $ 10.4 2009 $ 5.9 $ 4.6 $ 10.5 2010 $ 5.9 $ 4.8 $ 10.7 2011 through 2015 $ 29.4 $ 25.8 $ 55.2 The value of the plans assets has increased significantly over the past three years based mainly on performance of the plans equity securities. The U.S. plans assets were $84.7 million, $67.2 million and $60.7 million at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and the U.K. plans assets were $138.1 million, $121.0 million and $97.8 million at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The combination of actual investment returns, changing discount rates and changes in other assumptions has a significant effect on the Companys funded plan status (plan assets compared to projected benefit obligations). In 2005, the effect of positive investment returns more than offset the effects of a decline in the discount rate, thereby moving the U.S. plan into a $5.3 million over funded status at December 31, 2005. Whereas, in 2004, the effect of positive investment returns and cash contributions was more than offset by the effect of a decline in the discount rate and certain changes in mortality and other retirement assumptions, thereby increasing in the U.S. plans under funded status by $1.3 million to $11.4 million at December 31, 2004. In 2005 the effect of positive investment returns in the U.K. plan, as well as the effect of the strengthening dollar compared to the British pound sterling, more than offset the decline in the discount rate, thereby reducing the U.K. plans under funded status by $7.2 million to $54.8 million at December 31, 2005. Whereas, in 2004, the effect of positive investment returns was more than offset by the effect of a decline in the discount rate and certain changes in mortality and retirement assumptions, as well as the effect of the weakening dollar compared to the British pound sterling, thereby increasing the under funded status of the U.K. plan by $8.4 million to $62.0 million at December 31, 2004. Based upon the change in the funded status of the plans during 2005, the Company was able to reduce its net additional minimum pension liability charge (net of tax) to equity by $17.2 million, reflecting additional comprehensive income of $16.6 million for the U.S. plan (based on elimination of the additional minimum pension liability for this plan) and additional comprehensive income of $0.6 million for the U.K. plan. Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions. The Company provides limited OPEB benefits to a portion of its U.S. employees upon retirement. The Company funds such OPEB benefits as they are incurred, net of any retiree contributions. The Company paid OPEB benefits, net of retiree contributions, of $2.3 million in 2005, $2.5 million in 2004 and $3.1 million in 2003. The Company recorded consolidated OPEB expense of $2.8 million in 2005, $3.0 million in 2004 and $2.7 million in 2003. OPEB expense for these periods was calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, most significant of which are the discount rate and the expected long term health care trend rate. The discount rate the Company utilizes for determining OPEB expense and OPEB obligations is the same as that used for the Companys U.S. pension plans. Lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 5.65% to 5.4%) would have increased the Companys 2005 OPEB expense by less than $0.1 million. The Company estimates the expected long term health care trend rate based upon input from specialists in this area, as provided by the Companys actuaries. In estimating the health care trend rate, the Company considers industry trends, the Companys actual healthcare cost experience and the Companys future benefit structure. For 2005, the Company used a beginning health care trend rate of 9.29%, which is projected to reduce to an ultimate rate of 4.0% in 2010. If the health care trend rate changed by 1.00% for each year, OPEB expense would have increased/decreased by approximately $0.2 million in 2005. For 2006, the Company is using a beginning health care trend rate of 8.23%, which is projected to reduce to an ultimate rate of 4.0% in 2010. Based on a discount rate of 5.5%, a health care trend rate as discussed above and various other assumptions, the Company estimates that OPEB expense will approximate $2.8 million in 2006, $2.7 million in 2007 and $2.8 million in 2008. A 0.25% increase (decrease) in the discount rate would decrease (increase) projected OPEB expense by less than $0.1 million in each of 2006, 2007 and 2008. A 1.0% increase (decrease) in the health care trend rate for each year would increase (decrease) the projected service and interest cost components of OPEB expense by approximately $0.2 million in 2006 and by $0.3 million in each of 2007 and 2008. Based upon current projections, the Company will be required to pay the following OPEB benefits over the next ten years: Projected Projected Projected Projected net gross payments retiree Part D payments contributions subsidy (In millions) Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 3.8 (1.4) (0.2) $ 2.2 2007 $ 4.0 (1.5) (0.4) $ 2.1 2008 $ 4.3 (1.6) (0.4) $ 2.3 2009 $ 4.6 (1.7) (0.5) $ 2.4 2010 $ 4.8 (1.8) (0.5) $ 2.5 2011 through 2015 $ 29.0 (10.8) (3.0) $ 15.2 Environmental matters. See "Business Regulatory and environmental matters" in Item 1 and Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of environmental matters. Other. The Company periodically evaluates its liquidity requirements, capital needs and availability of resources in view of, among other things, its alternative uses of capital, debt service requirements, the cost of debt and equity capital and estimated future operating cash flows. As a result of this process, the Company has in the past, or in light of its current outlook, may in the future, seek to raise additional capital, modify its common and preferred dividend policies, restructure ownership interests, incur, refinance or restructure indebtedness, repurchase shares of common stock, purchase or redeem BUCS or Series A Preferred Stock, sell assets, or take a combination of such steps or other steps to increase or manage its liquidity and capital resources. In the normal course of business, the Company investigates, evaluates, discusses and engages in acquisition, joint venture, strategic relationship and other business combination opportunities in the titanium, specialty metal and other industries. In the event of any future acquisition or joint venture opportunities, the Company may consider using then available liquidity, issuing equity securities or incurring additional indebtedness. Corporations that may be deemed to be controlled by or affiliated with Mr. Simmons sometimes engage in (i) intercorporate transactions such as guarantees, management and expense sharing arrangements, shared fee arrangements, joint ventures, partnerships, loans, options, advances of funds on open account, and sales, leases and exchanges of assets, including securities issued by both related and unrelated parties, and (ii) common investment and acquisition strategies, business combinations, reorganizations, recapitalizations, securities repurchases, and purchases and sales (and other acquisitions and dispositions) of subsidiaries, divisions or other business units, which transactions have involved both related and unrelated parties and have included transactions which resulted in the acquisition by one related party of a publicly held minority equity interest in another related party. The Company continuously considers, reviews and evaluates such transactions, and understands that Contran, Valhi and related entities consider, review and evaluate such transactions. Depending upon the business, tax and other objectives then relevant, it is possible that the Company might be a party to one or more such transactions in the future. During the first nine months of 2004, the Company purchased 2,212,820 shares of CompX International, Inc ("CompX") Class A common shares, representing approximately 14.6% of the total number of shares of all classes of CompX common stock outstanding at that date. As of September 30, 2004, NL Industries, Inc. ("NL"), a subsidiary of Valhi, held an additional 68.4% of CompX. Effective on October 1, 2004, the Company and NL contributed 100% of their respective holdings on that date of all classes of CompX common stock to CompX Group, Inc. ("CGI") in return for a 17.6% and 82.4% ownership interest in CGI, respectively, and CGI became the owner of the 83.0% of CompX that the Company and NL had previously held in the aggregate. The CompX shares are the sole assets of CGI. The Companys shares of CGI are redeemable at the option of the Company based upon the market value of the underlying CompX stock held by CGI. The fair value of the Companys investment in CGI is based on the market value of the underlying CompX shares. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company directly held 483,600 and 336,700, respectively, shares of CompX, which were purchased subsequent to October 1, 2004. The Company has not contributed any of the shares purchased subsequent to October 1, 2004 to CGI. Depending upon the Companys evaluation of the business and prospects of CompX, and upon future developments (including, but not limited to, performance of the Class A Shares in the market, availability of funds, alternative uses of funds, and money, stock market and general economic conditions), the Company may from time to time purchase, dispose of, or cease buying or selling Class A Shares. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The Companys Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments, and select from a range of possible estimates and assumptions, that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reported period. On an on going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable, inventory allowances, asset lives, impairments of investments in marketable securities and investments accounted for by the equity method, the recoverability of other long lived assets, including property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets, pension and other post retirement benefit obligations and the related underlying actuarial assumptions, the realization of deferred income tax assets, and accruals for asset retirement obligations, environmental remediation, litigation, income tax and other contingencies. The Company bases its estimates and judgments, to varying degrees, on historical experience, advice of external specialists and various other factors it believes to be prudent under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from previously estimated amounts and such estimates, assumptions and judgments are regularly subject to revision. The policies and estimates discussed below are considered by management to be critical to an understanding of the Companys financial statements because their application requires the most significant judgments from management in estimating matters for financial reporting that are inherently uncertain. See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these policies and estimates, as well as discussion of additional accounting policies and estimates. Inventory allowances. Prior to January 1, 2005, approximately 40% of the Companys inventories were determined using the LIFO method, with the balance determined primarily using an average cost method. Effective January 1, 2005, the Company changed its method for inventory costing from the LIFO method to the specific identification cost method for the inventories previously accounted for under the LIFO cost method. With the significant volatility seen recently in raw material prices, the Company believes this change in accounting method provides a better matching of revenues and expenses. As required by GAAP, the Company has restated its financial statements for prior periods. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company periodically reviews its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory and records any write down equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and its estimated net realizable value based upon assumptions about alternative uses, market conditions and other factors. Impairment of long lived assets. Generally, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of long lived assets, including property and equipment and intangible assets, may not be recoverable, the Company undertakes an evaluation of the assets or asset group. If this evaluation indicates that the carrying amount of the asset or asset group is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment would typically be calculated using discounted expected future cash flows or appraised values. All relevant factors are considered in determining whether an impairment exists. During 2005, the Company determined that certain of its manufacturing equipment would no longer be utilized in its operations, and, accordingly, recognized a $1.2 million noncash abandonment charge to cost of sales. In 2004, no such events or circumstances indicated the need to perform such evaluation. Valuation and impairment of securities. In accordance with SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, the Companys marketable securities, including the shares of CompX contributed by the Company and held by CGI (based upon the Companys redemption option), are classified as available for sale securities and are carried at fair value based upon quoted market prices, with unrealized gains and or losses included in stockholders equity as a component of other comprehensive income. The Company evaluates its investments in marketable securities whenever events or conditions occur to indicate that the fair value of such investments has declined below their carrying amounts. If the decline in fair value is judged to be other than temporary, the carrying amount of the security is written down to fair value. In 2005, no such events or circumstances indicated the need to perform such evaluation. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Deferred income tax valuation allowances. Under SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, and related guidance, the Company is required to record a valuation allowance if realization of deferred tax assets is not "more likely than not." Substantial weight must be given to recent historical results and near term projections, and management must assess the availability of tax planning strategies that might impact either the need for, or amount of, any valuation allowance. See "Results of Operations Income taxes" for discussion of the Companys analysis of its deferred income tax valuation allowances. Pension and OPEB expenses and obligations. The Companys pension and OPEB expenses and obligations are calculated based on several estimates, including discount rates, expected rates of returns on plan assets and expected health care trend rates. The Company reviews these rates annually with the assistance of its actuaries. See further discussion of the factors considered and potential effect of these estimates in "Liquidity and Capital Resources Defined benefit pension plans" and "Liquidity and Capital Resources Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions." Revenue recognition. Sales revenue is generally recognized when the Company has certified that its product meets the related customer specifications, the product has been shipped, and title and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the customer. Payments received from customers in advance of these criteria being met are recorded as customer advances until earned. For inventory consigned to customers, sales revenue is recognized when (i) the terms of the consignment end, (ii) the Company has completed performance of all significant obligations and (iii) title and substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the customer. Amounts charged to customers for shipping and handling are included in net sales. Sales revenue is stated net of price and early payment discounts. Other loss contingencies. Accruals for estimated loss contingencies, including, but not limited to, product related liabilities, environmental remediation and litigation, are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Disclosure is made when there is a reasonable possibility that a loss may have been incurred. Contingent liabilities are often resolved over long time periods. Estimating probable losses often requires analysis of various projections that are dependent upon the future outcome of multiple factors, including costs, the findings of investigations and actions by the Company and third parties. ITEM 7A: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest rates. The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates related to indebtedness. The Company typically does not enter into interest rate swaps or other types of contracts in order to manage its interest rate market risk. At December 31, 2005, all of the Companys bank indebtedness was denominated in U.S. dollars or British pounds sterling. At December 31, 2004, all of the Companys bank indebtedness was denominated in U.S. dollars. The Companys borrowings accrue interest at variable rates, generally related to spreads over bank prime rates and LIBOR. Because the Companys bank indebtedness reprices with changes in market interest rates, the carrying amount of such debt is believed to approximate fair value. The following table summarizes the Companys bank variable rate indebtedness and related maturities as of December 31, 2005: Contractual maturity date There after Interest 2006 2007 2008 2009 rate (1) (In millions) U. S. dollars (2) $ $ $ $ $ 40.3 6.4% British pounds sterling $ $ $ 11.1 $ $ 5.6% (1) Weighted average. (2) Subsequent to December 31, 2005, the Company entered into a new U.S. credit facility, which matures in 2010. The following table summarizes the Companys bank variable rate indebtedness and related maturities as of December 31, 2004: Contractual maturity date There Interest 2005 2006 2007 2008 after rate (1) (In millions) U. S. dollars (1) $ 43.2 $ $ $ $ 4.3% (1) Weighted average. The Subordinated Debentures held by the Capital Trust provide a fixed 6.625% coupon and are exposed to market risk from changing interest rates. During 2005, the trading volume of the BUCS was minimal and, therefore, the Company does not believe the last traded value of the BUCS necessarily provides a fair value of the underlying Subordinated Debentures. The BUCS issued by the Capital Trust are publicly traded and are convertible, at the option of the holder, into TIMET common stock at the rate of 2.678 shares of common stock per BUCS. Based on the last traded value of TIMET common stock ($31.63 per share) on or before December 31, 2005, the "as converted" value of the 113,467 BUCS outstanding at December 31, 2005 (which the Company believes provides a reasonable estimate of fair value of the Subordinated Debentures) was $9.6 million. Based on the last traded value of the BUCS on December 31, 2004 ($16.00 per BUCS), the fair value of the outstanding Subordinated Debentures related to the 115,717 outstanding BUCS approximated $1.9 million at December 31, 2004. On March 3, 2005, the Company called all of the outstanding BUCS for redemption. The redemption price equals 100.6625% of the $50.00 liquidation amount per BUCS, or $50.3313, plus accrued distributions to the March 24, 2006 redemption date on the BUCS of $0.2116 per BUCS. Foreign currency exchange rates. The Company is exposed to market risk arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of its international operations. The Company does not enter into currency forward contracts to manage its foreign exchange market risk associated with receivables, payables or indebtedness denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the particular entity. See "Results of Operations European operations" in Item 7 MD&A for further discussion. Commodity prices. The Company is exposed to market risk arising from changes in commodity prices as a result of its long term purchase and supply agreements with certain suppliers and customers. These agreements, which offer various fixed or formula determined pricing arrangements, effectively obligate the Company to bear (i) the risk of increased raw material and other costs to the Company that cannot be passed on to the Companys customers through increased titanium product prices (in whole or in part) or (ii) the risk of decreasing raw material costs to the Companys suppliers that are not passed on to the Company in the form of lower raw material prices. However, the Companys ability to offset increased material costs with higher selling prices should increase in 2006, as many of the Companys LTAs have either expired or have been renegotiated for 2006 with price adjustments that take into account raw material cost fluctuations. Securities prices. As of December 31, 2005, the Company holds certain publicly traded equity securities that are exposed to market risk due to changes in prices of the securities as reported on the New York Stock Exchange. The aggregate market value of these equity securities at December 31, 2005 was $46.5 million, as compared to a cost basis of $36.9 million. The potential change in the aggregate market value of these securities, assuming a 10% change in prices, would be $4.6 million at December 31, 2005. See also Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
